
                              544 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Analysts disagree over protest poll

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 445 words


Political analysts cannot agree on the meaning of a recent poll showing both
growing support and discontent with protests.

The latest poll by Levada Center showed that 42 percent of respondents support
the rallies that have been going on since December. It is 11 percent more than
in March and close to December's numbers, when 44 percent supported the
protests. Forty-seven percent said they were against the protests, and 11
percent could not say.

Economic problems

Some experts stress that raising tariffs, utility payments and alcohol prices
could lead to a new wave of protests, while the majority did not notice the
government's actions against the opposition.

Discontent is growing with two groups of people - one is unhappy about rising
prices, the other is unhappy about the new repressive laws, deputy head of
Levada Center Alexei Grazhdankin told Kommersant.

Grazhdankin is referring to the law that allows for the blocking of blacklisted
Internet web sites and another law that strengthens punishments for
participating in and organizing unsanctioned rallies.

People are fed up with protests

However, the figures for protests are still a bit lower than those in December,
at the peak of Russian protest activity, director general of the Institute of
Priority Regional   Projects, Nikolai Mironov, told RIA Novosti.

He argued that the population has no reason to protest because the reforms
demanded by the protesters in the end of 2011 have been implemented.

'Of course, there are a lot of unsolved problems that demand further action,
corruption, for example. But as we can see, in general in Russia these problems
do not cause protests. But the effective work of public organizations is
ongoing: demands are made, laws are written, conferences are held. Public
activity is not falling.'

He added that while there could be a rise in protest activity in September,
there would be a steady decline after that.

Higher School of Economics professor and political analyst Oleg Matveichev,
however, stressed that the number of people opposing the protests rose together
with the number of supporters, which means that the protest movement has no
future.

'I think those who say that they support it will not go to the rallies
themselves, because they are sick of going 10 times, considering the new laws
and dangers on their way,' he said.

He argued that the protests were the result of singular events - the elections
and the inauguration.

'The society is tired of protests: everyone is fed up with everybody walking
around and destabilizing the situation in the country. This is why there are
more people with a negative view of it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday

Rallying cry

LENGTH: 560  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, April 9 -- In case anyone doubted otherwise, the culture of protest is
still strong in Nepal. This week's rally by the Kirati community reminded us
all. Over 1,000 participants from 18 different countries descended upon
Kathmandu for a three-day conference early this week. The second international
conference on the Kirat religion, the event was planned for the 126th birth
anniversary of the Kirati religious leader, Mahaguru Phalgunanda. The conference
was described as both a peace rally and a means of fighting for Kirati rights.
To kick off the event on Monday, the indigenous community organised a motorcycle
rally on major roads in the Capital. While the 500 motorcycles certainly
indicated the solidarity of the Kirati community, they also annoyed Kathmandu
residents who are weary of constant disturbances to an already troubled traffic
system. Most people not involved with the conference seemed to know little about
the rally except that it was preventing them from getting where they needed to
be. Organised during rush hour, the rally caused three hours of standstill
traffic in the Capital, allowing those waiting in hot vehicles plenty of time to
fume.

A few days later, traffic was obstructed in Ratnanagar of Chitwan district to
protest the fatal shooting of petrol pump manager Bharat Ghimire. While the
killing was certainly unjust, many found problem with the fact that those
responsible were unlikely to be affected by the protest, while innocent stranded
passengers were. Many are complaining that such rallies and protests are
unjustly disturbing normal life in the Valley and throughout the country. From
having to wait hours without a chance to use a restroom, to being late for
appointments and work, to being stuck with uncertainty in the middle of the
highway, people are fed up. Beyond these arguably minor annoyances, such lengthy
jams and traffic obstructions can flare tempers with the potential for violence.
Equally disturbing, bandas and protests by their nature don't allow exceptions
for emergency vehicles like fire trucks or ambulances.

Metropolitan Traffic Police Division in-charge SP Jagat Man Shrestha, who was
dealing with the traffic caused by the Kirat rally, was reported saying that
there should be a separate space for protests and strict rules about what
protestors can do. Those who are using protests to achieve different aims might
argue that delegating a particular space to voice concerns will allow people to
ignore them; that the very reason this type of in-your-face street protest is
effective is because it forces people to stop and think about the issue.
Policing protests also runs the risk of curbing freedom of speech and limiting
non-violent means through which people can express grievances. The right to
protest should remain a freedom enjoyed by citizens of an open society. But as
Nepal's protest culture continues, the power of protest as a political tool is
weakening. The protestors themselves should realise the growing impotence of
this medium. Often times, besides the people involved, few know or care what the
message of these protests are. They just want to get out of traffic. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              546 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 121

LENGTH: 292  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.  According to details,
the activists of the PPP-SB Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of Advocate
Peeral Majeedano, Irshad Khaskheli, Shuab Shaikh and others staged a protest
demonstration against the inflation in the country. The members of the Save
Graveyard Action Committee under the leadership of Deedar Sham staged a protest
demonstration against the occupation of the land of a local graveyard. The
members of the PTCL Pensioners Welfare Association staged a protest
demonstration for the acceptance of their demands. The residents of SITE Area
Hyderabad under the leadership of Akhtar Shah, Dildar Abro staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of Ali Nawaz Solangi.

The members of ESRA Teachers Action Committee Hyderabad under the leadership of
Naheed Bhatti, Rashida Panhwar and others staged a protest demonstration for the
regularization of their services. The members of Sindh Animal Husbandry
Ministerial Employees Association under the leadership of Muhammad Jamil Baloch,
Abdul Samad Qureshi and others staged a protest demonstration against corruption
and fake appointments in their department. On the other hand the members of
Qasimabad Action Committee under the leadership of Mehboob Abro, Haji Rasool Bux
Shaikh, Haji Shokat Memon and others observed a token hunger strike at Naseem
Nagar Chowk against DCO Hyderabad Aftab Ahmed Khatri for neglecting Qasimabad in
development works. Meanwhile the members of Baloch Ittehad Rabita Committee
under the leadership of Qamaruddin Baloch, Muhammad Zahid Baloch, Zulfiqar Ali
Baloch and others took out a rally to mark Baloch Cultural Day.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              547 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1793

LENGTH: 298  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people outside the Hyderabad
Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, a woman namely Nadra resident of GOR Colony Hyderabad
staged a protest demonstration for the release of her son Guddu. The members of
the All Pakistan Clerks Association under the leadership of Syed Munawar Ali
Shah, Syed Sardar Ali Shah, Ali Hyder and others staged a protest demonstration
in favor of their demands.

The residents of village Sahib Khan Chandio of Hatri Hyderabad under the
leadership of Wahab Brohi, Masood Brohi, Mir Muhammad Chandio and others staged
a protest demonstration against DPO Thatta, Pir Fareed Jan Sarhandi, MPA
Sharjeel Memon and DFO Kathri Forest Hyderabad.

The activists of the Jeay Sindh Tehreek under the leadership of Punhal Larik,
Muneer Laghari, Anwar Mallah and others staged a protest demonstration for the
release of Aakash Mallah. The activists of the National PASBAN Tehreek Hyderabad
chapter staged a protest demonstration against kidnapping of minor girls.

The leaders of the Rehabilitation of Flood Affectees Sindh Tehreek under the
leadership of Abdul Hafeez Jatoi, Ali Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest
demonstration for the immediate rehabilitation of IDPs of Sindh.

The members of the Tanzeem Falah-o-Bahbood for Handicapped persons under the
leadership of Nadeem Ahmed Shaikh, Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest
demonstration in favor of disabled persons' demand. The members of the Hyderabad
Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and
others also continued their protest demonstration against the Habib Group.
Meanwhile, the residents of Qazi Qayoom Road under the leadership of Mansoor
Ahmed and others staged a protest demonstration against low pressure of sui gas.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              549 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio & Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1765

LENGTH: 394  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.  According to details, the
activists of the Pakistan People's Party Shaheed Bhutto (PPP-SB), Hussainabad
chapter under the leadership of Fahad Shah, Sajid Panhwar and others staged a
protest demonstration for the immediate rehabilitation of IDPs. The members of
Education Lower Staff Working Committee Tando Muhammad Khan chapter under the
leadership of Muhammad Khan, Ali Ahmed and others staged a protest demonstration
for the regularization of their services.

A man namely Khair Muhammad Chohan, resident of Kotri continued his
demonstration for the arrest of the murderers of his son namely Muhammad Sadiq
Chohan. The flood affected women of Jamshoro under the leadership of Sakina,
Rehmat Zadi and others staged a protest demonstration for the issuance of Watan
Cards. The people of the Kolhi community, residents of Jamesabad, district
Sanghar under the leadership of Krishan Kolhi, Veeru Kolhi and others staged a
protest demonstration against the actions of an influential man of their area.

The members of the Action Committee Bureau of Curriculum Jamshoro chapter under
the leadership of Muhammad Ali Bhalai, Ghulam Mustafa and others staged a
protest demonstration for the restoration of sacked employees. The members of
the Pakistan Veterinary Medical Association under the leadership of Dr. Bakhshal
Khan Thallo, Dr Mubarak Jatoi and others staged a protest demonstration for the
acceptance of their demands. A social worker namely comrade Anwar Mallah,
resident of Radhan district Dadu staged a protest demonstration against the
worsening law and order situation in his town.

A woman namely Naseeb, resident of Hali Road Hyderabad staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of her accused rapists. The sacked employees of a
media group including Naeem Shah and Hashim Shaikh staged a protest
demonstration in favor of their demands. A man namely Muhammad Fazal Bhatti,
resident of Talhar staged a protest demonstration for the provision of a job. An
injured man namely Allah Ditta Bhutto, resident of Raheem Yar Khan staged a
protest demonstration for the provision of financial assistance for his
treatment. The members of the Hyderabad Action Committee continued their protest
demonstration against Habib Group Farms.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              550 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

Countrywide protests

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 365

LENGTH: 249  words


The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) staged protests in various cities of Punjab to
condemn the killing of Punjab Governor Salmaan Taseer, a private TV channel
reported on Wednesday. A partial strike was observed in Lahore, where markets
and shopping centres remained closed completely on The Mall, Hall Road, Shah
Alami, Rang Mahal, Shahdara, Gulberg, Liberty Market, Hafeez Centre, Beadon
Road, Montgomery Road and McLeod Road. In Gujranwala, after offering funeral
prayers for the governor, PPP workers and traders took out a protest rally.

The protesters raised slogans against the killer and demanded justice. The
People's Students Federation and traders' organisations held protest
demonstrations and took out rallies in Dera Ghazi Khan, Rahim Yar Khan,
Bahawalpur, Haroonabad, Vehari, Khanewal, Multan and other cities of south
Punjab. They demanded stern action against the murderer. Bahauddin Zakarya
University (BZU) students also held a protest demonstration over the governor's
murder. The students also organised a protest in front of the Engineering
Department, the channel said. In Burewala, lawyers and students took out a
protest rally, which was led by PLF President Advocate Chaudhry Saifullah, and
PYO leader Muhammad Saeed. Enraged people also held a protest at the crime scene
in Kohsar Market, Islamabad. The PPP workers held a protest demonstration
outside the press club in Jacobabad. They staged a sit in and demanded severe
punishment for the killer, the channel reported.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              551 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1533

LENGTH: 283  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by the people outside the
Hyderabad Press Club in favour of their demands on Wednesday.  According to
details, the activists of the Balochistan Students Organization Hyderabad Zone
under the leadership of Basheer Baloch, Noor Muhammad Baloch and others staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of 8,000 missing persons of Balochistan.

A woman namely, Arzoo, resident of Latifabad No. 11 staged a protest
demonstration against the atrocities of her husband and father-in-law. The
members of the All Hyderabad Old Battery Manufacturers Association under the
leadership of Shahid Hussain and others recorded a protest demonstration against
the atrocities of the local police. A police constable of district Jamshoro
namely Ghulam Ali Janwari staged a protest demonstration against the Sheet Clerk
of the dept namely Naveed Samo.

The people of Panhwar community under the leadership of Ghulam Nabi Panhwar and
others residents of Husri, district Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration for
the arrest of the killers of their community youth Ghulam Nabi Panhwar. The
people of the Bughio community under the leadership of Sohrab Bughio and others
residents of Tando Adam district Sanghar staged a protest demonstration for the
arrest of their community man namely Haji Khair Muhammad's murderers.

The Government Secondary Teachers Association (GSTA) under the leadership of
Safar Memon and others staged a protest demonstration in favour of the demands
of teachers of Sindh. The activists of Islami Jamiat Talba Hyderabad chapter
under the leadership of Abdul Rehman and others staged a protest demonstration
against the conspiracies against Islam.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                             January 9, 2009 Friday

JI to protest against Israel's attack tomorrow

LENGTH: 164 words


Islamabad :Jamat Islami (JI) Ameer Qazi Hussain Ahmad has appealed to observe
protest day tomorrow (Sunday) against the Israeli attack on Gaza. On this
occasion protest will be held at Aabpara chowk Islamabad, the protest will start
at 1 pm. The protest will be led by Ameer by Qazi Hussain Ahmad, vice president
Ameer Liaqat Bloch, District Ameer Islamabad Syed Bilal, vice Ameer Punjab Mian
Muhammad Aslam, President Shabad Mille Shahid Gillani and other members.

Jamiat Islami Media Director Hafiz Sajjad Qamar has appealed to all political
and religious parties to attend this protest and show that Muslims are united
against all outside forces. He also said that this is our bad luck that Israel
is slaughtering Muslims due to backing of America and our leaders are giving
Richard Boucher Halal Quaid-e-Azam medal.

He also said that real cause of Israel aggression is America. There is dire need
of hour that our leaders should adopt policies based on sovereignty sans US
pressure.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                        Copyright 2009 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              553 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday

Open-ended protest starts outside Armenian opposition candidate's office

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by private Armenian news agency Arminfo

Yerevan, 12 February: An open-ended protest started today in front of the
central campaign headquarters (located on Koryun Street [in central Yerevan]) of
the Armenian presidential candidate and first Armenian president, Levon
Ter-Petrosyan.

Several dozens of people are taking part in the protest. The protest is being
held under the slogan "Dangerous for society and civilization". The organizer of
the protest, Artyom Khachatryan, says the protest is open-ended and its
participants intend to continue it till Ter-Petrosyan leaves the country. There
are people among the protesters who have arrived from Nubarashen [District of
Yerevan] and Artashat [a city in Ararat Region].

Although the protesters call what is going on a political order, the organizers
say that it [the protest] is their personal initiative. Witnesses say that the
protesters and representatives of Ter-Petrosyan's headquarters engaged in a
verbal skirmish, but did not come to blows. The protest is being monitored by
the police.

Source: Arminfo, Yerevan, in Russian 1656 gmt 12 Feb 08

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              554 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

Azeri opposition leader calls for mass protests against fuel price hike

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by Azerbaijani news agency APA

Baku, 9 January: The chairman of the Musavat Party, Isa Qambar, held a news
conference today in connection with the hike in prices for fuel and public
utilities. According to APA, Isa Qambar said that the price hike has shocked the
country. According to the Musavat chairman who said part of the population is
living below the poverty line, the latest decision will worsen their living
standards even more.

The Musavat leader thinks it necessary to stage mass protests in the country for
one month: "The Musavat Party is ready to start these protests. But we are in
favour of joint protests by all opposition parties. For this reason, we will
hold discussions with other parties and schedule a protest."

Qambar also said that party leaders have already held preliminary consultations.
He pointed out that Musavat would stage protests on its own if joint protests
fail.

Source: Azerbaijani news agency APA, Baku, in Azeri 1159 gmt 9 Jan 07

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 5, 2003

Taxi-drivers accuse RTE of undermining their protest

BYLINE: By OLIVIA KELLY

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 410 words


Dublin taxi-drivers have accused the national broadcaster, RTE, of
misrepresenting drivers and attempting to undermine their protests through its
radio coverage of a SIPTU drivers' demonstration yesterday morning.

More than 200 taxi-drivers assembled at the RTE studios in Donnybrook at around
10 a.m. yesterday in protest at what they claimed was inaccurate and adverse
reporting during the Morning Ireland radio programme of an earlier taxi protest
on Dublin's Merrion Street.

A group of taxi-drivers, who are members of SIPTU, gathered on Merrion and
Kildare streets between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. yesterday to protest over pay and
working conditions.

Four traffic reports, broadcast on Morning Ireland between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m.,
gave the number of taxis at the protest as 15. SIPTU and other radio stations
reported that there were close to 200 taxis at the event.

SIPTU spokesman Mr Jerry Brennan said the drivers who took part felt their
protest was deliberately undermined.

"The drivers were very disgruntled with RTE and the misrepresentation of their
numbers. They were aggrieved by a perceived agenda on behalf of RTE, or the
person who made the report, to play down their concerns and the protest."

More then 200 drivers took a "spontaneous decision" to gather at the RTE
studios, Mr Brennan said, to demonstrate the strength of their numbers to RTE.
The protest was orderly and had the assistance of the gardai, he added.

A spokeswoman for RTE said the station had taken an editorial decision not to
cover the Merrion Street protest. "There are a number of these sort of protests
every single day - we cannot cover every single one," she said.

The item on the protest aired on Morning Ireland had been part of the AA
Roadwatch traffic report, she said.

AA Roadwatch spokeswoman, Ms Emma Caulfield, said the report reflected the facts
of the protest.

"Roadwatch reports travel and traffic disruptions. The disruption due to this
protest was minimal, according to our council sources there was hardly any
disruption at all.

"We reported the facts. The taxi-drivers are just trying to make a bigger deal
of it than it was. We did nothing wrong."

The Merrion Street demonstration was part of a series of taxi stoppages
organised by SIPTU since the beginning of February to protest at the apparent
decline in standards being applied by the authorities when issuing taxi plates
and the deterioration of taxi-drivers' earnings.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


                              556 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     January 31, 2001, Wednesday, Edition 1

PROVINCE CAN'T STOP PEACEFUL PROTESTS: COURT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words



charges against

five dismissed

Five peaceful protesters had the right to defy a lifetime ban
 from the grounds of the Ontario Legislature, a court has ruled.

 In dismissing trespassing charges against the five yesterday, Justice of the
Peace Richard Quon warned the Progressive Conservative government against trying
to stifle legitimate dissent.

"The government should not wantonly use the law of trespass to evict legitimate
peaceful protesters or stop their voices," said Quon.

The demonstrators, all members of the group Toronto Action for Social Change,
were barred from the Legislature and adjoining grounds for life in October, 1998
after a protest against government social policies. They threw fake blood at an
outside wall of the Legislature during the protest.

The written ban was issued by Chris Stockwell, who was then speaker, after
Sergeant-at-Arms Dennis Clark deemed the protest mischievous and non-peaceful.

In January, 2000, the five defied the ban with a second "prayer" protest and
were charged with trespassing.

In defending themselves, the accused argued the ban violated their Charter
rights to freedom of expression and assembly, and called on Quon to throw out
both the charges and Stockwell's order.

Demonstrators hope current speaker will lift protest ban In his judgment, Quon
decided the speaker was justified in
 issuing the ban given that throwing the "stage blood" amounted
 to vandalism.

 However, he agreed trespassing charges violated their rights because the second
protest was peaceful and therefore protected by the Charter.

Quon said he had no jurisdiction to overturn the indefinite "banishment," which
he called excessive.

The protesters, he said, could argue their case before a higher court, or they
could agree to abide by a set of rules laid down by the speaker.

"I'm not personally prepared to sign any kind of letter saying what kind of
demonstration I'm allowed to do," said Mandy Hiscocks, another of those charged.

"Political protest that's sanctioned by the state, that's the kind of political
protest that isn't much of a political protest."

Peggy Huigenbos, spokeswoman for Attorney General Jim Flaherty, said the
government is reviewing the decision before deciding on an appeal.

The demonstrators said they hoped Gary Carr, the current speaker, would review
the judgment and lift the ban.

Carr was not available to comment.

Clark, who said he had concerns about the judgment, said he wanted to discuss
the matter with Carr before commenting further.

New Democrat MPP Shelley Martel said she was pleased the charges were thrown out
and called on the speaker to lift the ban.

The others charged along with Behrens and Hiscocks were Rev. Bob Holmes, Donald
Johnston and Sandra Long.

With files from Alan Barnes


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              557 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 22, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PUERTO RICANS PROTEST NAVY PLANS FOR TRAINING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO


More than 80,000 people staged one of the biggest demonstrations in years here
Monday to protest the planned resumption of U.S. Navy training on the island of
Vieques.

Called by top religious leaders, including the heads of Puerto Rico's Catholic
and Methodist churches, the "Peace for Vieques" march repudiated an agreement
between Gov. Pedro Rossello and President Bill Clinton to resume limited
training on Vieques, the Navy's prize Atlantic fleet bombing range.

Police Chief Pedro Toledo estimated the crowd at 85,000. Carrying banners
bearing the portrait of Jesus and reading, "We Want Peace," along with red,
white and blue Puerto Rican flags, the protesters staged a silent march along a
one-mile stretch of San Juan's Las Americas Expressway, cordoned off by hundreds
of police officers.

Organizers depicted the protest as nonpolitical, though many members of this
U.S. territory's tiny Independence Party participated.

Church leaders' increasing involvement in anti-Navy protests has angered many
pro-statehood politicians here. They fear the protests could harm efforts to
make Puerto Rico - recipient of $ 11 billion in federal money annually - the
51st U.S. state.

Clinton and Rossello agreed last month to allow the Navy to resume limited
training using inert bombs. The pact calls for a referendum, likely to be held
in 2001, that will give Vieques residents two choices:

* Allowing the Navy to resume use of the range on its own terms - including the
use of live bombs.

* Requiring the Navy to cease all training by May 1, 2003. Until then, however,
the Navy could use the dummy bombs.

For 60 years, the Navy has used Vieques, with the island's 9,400 residents
sandwiched between an ammunition storage zone and the bombing range.

After an errant bomb killed a civilian security guard last April, protesters
moved in. Military exercises were suspended, and Puerto Rico demanded the range
be shut down.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              558 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Regulatory update: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission;KRIS ECKERL , has
submitted -Application- (A-2014-2429336)

LENGTH: 1363  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission has issued the following
document (case):

  The Consolidated Case View displays the case information, actions taken on the
case, and links to public documents associated with the case, which is
identified by the Docket Number A-2014-2429336.



 Case Summary

 Docket Number A-2014-2429336     Active

 Applicant:     KRIS ECKERL T/A MICHAELS MOVING AND STORAGE     Utility Code:
8916668

 Complainant:         Utility Name:     KRIS ECKERL

 Respondent:         Utility Type:     Truck

 Responsible Bureau:     TUS     Efiling Confirmation Number (Case):     1552838


 Date Filed:     6/30/2014     Date Posted:     6/30/2014

 Case Description:     Application of Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving and
Storage for approval to transport household goods in use between points in PA.



 Daily Actions

 Action Date     Description     Posted Date

 6/30/2014     Case Created - A-2014-2429336 - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving
and Storage filed application for authority to begin transporting household
goods in use.     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Application-Application to
Begin Service.pdf' is made public     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Assigned Responsible Bureau - TUS     6/30/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage
- Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Matheson Transfer Co -
Matheson Transfer Company filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Matheson Transfer
Co' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage Inc - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc filed protest to application.
9/22/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Cadden
Bros Moving & Storage Inc' is made public     9/22/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Pennsylvania
Moving & Storage Associates - Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates filed
protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Matheson Transfer
Company - Matheson Transfer Company filed protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Matheson
Transfer Company' is made public     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest
(Official)-Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates' is made public
9/23/2014

 9/29/2014     Reassign Case to OALJ - Other - See Comments - Protests not
widrawn - transfer to OALJ     9/29/2014

 10/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is made public     10/22/2014

 10/22/2014     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is eServed - {CCF23B59-3B5A-43EA-A173-CA8903165679}
10/22/2014

 1/5/2015     Document Attached to Case - Electronic Transcript - Kris Eckert
t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM - Pgs 1-35 - Kris Eckert t/a
Michaels Moving and Storage transcript from hearing held on December 12, 2014 at
10:07AM. Pages 1-35.     1/5/2015

 1/5/2015     Private Document Published on Web - Document 'Electronic
Transcript - Kris Eckert t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM -
Pgs 1-35' Restricted on Web - {F8E51741-F674-4783-A08C-78FD69D6CB0E}
1/5/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Served & Send to C&A - Other - See Comments - ID SERVED
5/21/15 EXCEPTIONS DUE 6/10/15 AND REPLIES 6/22/15     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application
of Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is made public     5/21/2015


 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is made public     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application of
Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is eServed -
{29F42D2A-6CA5-47E6-9D5B-703422F94021}     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is eServed - {38807C44-6924-44C1-9A8A-F02E55DE7C26}     5/21/2015

 5/27/2015     Document Served & Pend - Pend for Exceptions     5/27/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels
Moving & Storage - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving & Storage filed Exceptions
6/9/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a
Michaels Moving & Storage' is made public     6/9/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Attached to Case - Reply Exception - Matheson Transfer
Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc - Matheson Transfer Company and
Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed reply exceptions.     6/12/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Reply Exception - Matheson
Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc' is made public
6/12/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions addendum - Kris Eckerl -
Kris Eckerl filed addendum to Exceptions     6/23/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions addendum - Kris
Eckerl' is made public     6/23/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Attached to Case - Motion to Strike - Matheson Xfer and
Cadden Bros. - Matheson Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving and Storage,
Inc. filed Motion to Strike a late addendum.     7/8/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Motion to Strike - Matheson
Xfer and Cadden Bros.' is made public     7/8/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Served - Other - See Comments - Order Served 11/19/2015
11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is made public     11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is eServed - {4C751029-2CD7-40CA-9E31-16668FE0FF9D}     11/19/2015

 12/31/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is made public     12/31/2015

 12/31/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is eServed - {63A71C45-C186-4C96-B14A-0EE58A6EB70B}
12/31/2015

 1/8/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Richard T Mulcahey Jr
Original Signature Ltr' is made public     1/8/2016

 1/15/2016     Document Attached to Case - Cvr Ltr & Cert of Srvc-Matheson
Transfer Co & Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden
Bros Moving & Storage Inc filed Cvr Ltr & Cert of Srvc     1/15/2016

 1/15/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Cvr Ltr & Cert of
Srvc-Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc' is made public
1/15/2016

 3/8/2016     Document Attached to Case - Electronic Transcript - Hrg 3-2-2016
(p 1-5) - Initial Hearing with ALJ Eranda Vero held March 2, 2016 at 10:17 a.m.
filed.     3/8/2016

 3/8/2016     Private Document Published on Web - Document 'Electronic
Transcript - Hrg 3-2-2016 (p 1-5)' Restricted on Web -
{76FE2040-49C5-4268-949A-1215CE30CEA6}     3/8/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Attached to Case - Letter to be Copied on all Actions, R
Mulcahey Jr - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage Inc -
Matheson Transfer Company and Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage Inc filed letter
that Richard T Mulcahey Jr be copied on all actions.     3/23/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Letter to be Copied on all
Actions, R Mulcahey Jr - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage
Inc' is made public     3/23/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Attached to Case - Entry of Appearance of J Scanlon -
Krist Eckerl - Kris Eckrel t/a Michael Moving and Storage filed entry of
appearance of James J Scanlon.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              559 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Regulatory update: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; KRIS ECKERL, has
submitted -Application (A-2014-2429336)

LENGTH: 1490  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission has issued the following
document (case):



  The Consolidated Case View displays the case information, actions taken on the
case, and links to public documents associated with the case, which is
identified by the Docket Number A-2014-2429336.



 Case Summary

 Docket Number A-2014-2429336     Active

 Applicant:     KRIS ECKERL T/A MICHAELS MOVING AND STORAGE     Utility Code:
8916668

 Complainant:         Utility Name:     KRIS ECKERL

 Respondent:         Utility Type:     Truck

 Responsible Bureau:     TUS     Efiling Confirmation Number (Case):     1552838


 Date Filed:     6/30/2014     Date Posted:     6/30/2014

 Case Description:     Application of Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving and
Storage for approval to transport household goods in use between points in PA.



 Daily Actions

 Action Date     Description     Posted Date

 6/30/2014     Case Created - A-2014-2429336 - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving
and Storage filed application for authority to begin transporting household
goods in use.     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Application-Application to
Begin Service.pdf' is made public     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Assigned Responsible Bureau - TUS     6/30/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage
- Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Matheson Transfer Co -
Matheson Transfer Company filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Matheson Transfer
Co' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage Inc - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc filed protest to application.
9/22/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Cadden
Bros Moving & Storage Inc' is made public     9/22/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Pennsylvania
Moving & Storage Associates - Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates filed
protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Matheson Transfer
Company - Matheson Transfer Company filed protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Matheson
Transfer Company' is made public     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest
(Official)-Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates' is made public
9/23/2014

 9/29/2014     Reassign Case to OALJ - Other - See Comments - Protests not
widrawn - transfer to OALJ     9/29/2014

 10/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is made public     10/22/2014

 10/22/2014     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is eServed - {CCF23B59-3B5A-43EA-A173-CA8903165679}
10/22/2014

 1/5/2015     Document Attached to Case - Electronic Transcript - Kris Eckert
t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM - Pgs 1-35 - Kris Eckert t/a
Michaels Moving and Storage transcript from hearing held on December 12, 2014 at
10:07AM. Pages 1-35.     1/5/2015

 1/5/2015     Private Document Published on Web - Document 'Electronic
Transcript - Kris Eckert t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM -
Pgs 1-35' Restricted on Web - {F8E51741-F674-4783-A08C-78FD69D6CB0E}
1/5/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Served & Send to C&A - Other - See Comments - ID SERVED
5/21/15 EXCEPTIONS DUE 6/10/15 AND REPLIES 6/22/15     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application
of Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is made public     5/21/2015


 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is made public     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application of
Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is eServed -
{29F42D2A-6CA5-47E6-9D5B-703422F94021}     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is eServed - {38807C44-6924-44C1-9A8A-F02E55DE7C26}     5/21/2015

 5/27/2015     Document Served & Pend - Pend for Exceptions     5/27/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels
Moving & Storage - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving & Storage filed Exceptions
6/9/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a
Michaels Moving & Storage' is made public     6/9/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Attached to Case - Reply Exception - Matheson Transfer
Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc - Matheson Transfer Company and
Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed reply exceptions.     6/12/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Reply Exception - Matheson
Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc' is made public
6/12/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions addendum - Kris Eckerl -
Kris Eckerl filed addendum to Exceptions     6/23/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions addendum - Kris
Eckerl' is made public     6/23/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Attached to Case - Motion to Strike - Matheson Xfer and
Cadden Bros. - Matheson Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving and Storage,
Inc. filed Motion to Strike a late addendum.     7/8/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Motion to Strike - Matheson
Xfer and Cadden Bros.' is made public     7/8/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Served - Other - See Comments - Order Served 11/19/2015
11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is made public     11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is eServed - {4C751029-2CD7-40CA-9E31-16668FE0FF9D}     11/19/2015

 12/31/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is made public     12/31/2015

 12/31/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is eServed - {63A71C45-C186-4C96-B14A-0EE58A6EB70B}
12/31/2015

 1/8/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Richard T Mulcahey Jr
Original Signature Ltr' is made public     1/8/2016

 1/15/2016     Document Attached to Case - Cvr Ltr & Cert of Srvc-Matheson
Transfer Co & Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden
Bros Moving & Storage Inc filed Cvr Ltr & Cert of Srvc     1/15/2016

 1/15/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Cvr Ltr & Cert of
Srvc-Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc' is made public
1/15/2016

 3/8/2016     Document Attached to Case - Electronic Transcript - Hrg 3-2-2016
(p 1-5) - Initial Hearing with ALJ Eranda Vero held March 2, 2016 at 10:17 a.m.
filed.     3/8/2016

 3/8/2016     Private Document Published on Web - Document 'Electronic
Transcript - Hrg 3-2-2016 (p 1-5)' Restricted on Web -
{76FE2040-49C5-4268-949A-1215CE30CEA6}     3/8/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Attached to Case - Letter to be Copied on all Actions, R
Mulcahey Jr - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage Inc -
Matheson Transfer Company and Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage Inc filed letter
that Richard T Mulcahey Jr be copied on all actions.     3/23/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Letter to be Copied on all
Actions, R Mulcahey Jr - Matheson Transfer Co & Cadden Brothers Moving & Storage
Inc' is made public     3/23/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Attached to Case - Entry of Appearance of J Scanlon -
Krist Eckerl - Kris Eckrel t/a Michael Moving and Storage filed entry of
appearance of James J Scanlon.     3/23/2016

 3/23/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Entry of Appearance of J
Scanlon - Krist Eckerl' is made public     3/23/2016

 5/6/2016     Document Attached to Case - Verified Statement/Business Plan of
Applicant - Kris Eckerl - Kris Eckerl filed verified statement/business plan of
applicant.     5/6/2016

 5/6/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Verified Statement/Business
Plan of Applicant - Kris Eckerl' is made public     5/6/2016

 5/11/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Req for Info - Kris
Eckerl.docx' is made public     5/11/2016

 5/25/2016     Document Attached to Case - Reply to Data Request - Kris Eckerl
t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving and Storage
filed Reply to Data Request.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 9, 2016 Tuesday

Regulatory update: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; KRIS ECKERL, has
submitted -Application- (A-2014-2429336)

LENGTH: 1124  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission has issued the following
document (case):



  The Consolidated Case View displays the case information, actions taken on the
case, and links to public documents associated with the case, which is
identified by the Docket Number A-2014-2429336.



 Case Summary

 Docket Number A-2014-2429336     Active

 Applicant:     KRIS ECKERL T/A MICHAELS MOVING AND STORAGE     Utility Code:
8916668

 Complainant:         Utility Name:     KRIS ECKERL

 Respondent:         Utility Type:     Truck

 Responsible Bureau:     TUS     Efiling Confirmation Number (Case):     1552838


 Date Filed:     6/30/2014     Date Posted:     6/30/2014

 Case Description:     Application of Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving and
Storage for approval to transport household goods in use between points in PA.



 Daily Actions

 Action Date     Description     Posted Date

 6/30/2014     Case Created - A-2014-2429336 - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving
and Storage filed application for authority to begin transporting household
goods in use.     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Application-Application to
Begin Service.pdf' is made public     6/30/2014

 6/30/2014     Assigned Responsible Bureau - TUS     6/30/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage
- Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Matheson Transfer Co -
Matheson Transfer Company filed Protest.     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Matheson Transfer
Co' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/5/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage' is made public     9/5/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Cadden Bros Moving
& Storage Inc - Cadden Bros Moving & Storage Inc filed protest to application.
9/22/2014

 9/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Cadden
Bros Moving & Storage Inc' is made public     9/22/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Pennsylvania
Moving & Storage Associates - Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates filed
protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Attached to Case - Protest (Official)-Matheson Transfer
Company - Matheson Transfer Company filed protest to application.     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest (Official)-Matheson
Transfer Company' is made public     9/23/2014

 9/23/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest
(Official)-Pennsylvania Moving & Storage Associates' is made public
9/23/2014

 9/29/2014     Reassign Case to OALJ - Other - See Comments - Protests not
widrawn - transfer to OALJ     9/29/2014

 10/22/2014     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is made public     10/22/2014

 10/22/2014     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial
Hearing Notice.doc' is eServed - {CCF23B59-3B5A-43EA-A173-CA8903165679}
10/22/2014

 1/5/2015     Document Attached to Case - Electronic Transcript - Kris Eckert
t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM - Pgs 1-35 - Kris Eckert t/a
Michaels Moving and Storage transcript from hearing held on December 12, 2014 at
10:07AM. Pages 1-35.     1/5/2015

 1/5/2015     Private Document Published on Web - Document 'Electronic
Transcript - Kris Eckert t/a Michaels Moving and Storage - 12/12/14 10:07AM -
Pgs 1-35' Restricted on Web - {F8E51741-F674-4783-A08C-78FD69D6CB0E}
1/5/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Served & Send to C&A - Other - See Comments - ID SERVED
5/21/15 EXCEPTIONS DUE 6/10/15 AND REPLIES 6/22/15     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application
of Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is made public     5/21/2015


 5/21/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is made public     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Application of
Kris Eckerl t/d/ba Michael's Moving and Storage' is eServed -
{29F42D2A-6CA5-47E6-9D5B-703422F94021}     5/21/2015

 5/21/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 ID SEC
LETTER.doc' is eServed - {38807C44-6924-44C1-9A8A-F02E55DE7C26}     5/21/2015

 5/27/2015     Document Served & Pend - Pend for Exceptions     5/27/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels
Moving & Storage - Kris Eckerl t/a Michaels Moving & Storage filed Exceptions
6/9/2015

 6/9/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions - Kris Eckerl t/a
Michaels Moving & Storage' is made public     6/9/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Attached to Case - Reply Exception - Matheson Transfer
Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc - Matheson Transfer Company and
Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc filed reply exceptions.     6/12/2015

 6/12/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Reply Exception - Matheson
Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving & Storage Inc' is made public
6/12/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Attached to Case - Exceptions addendum - Kris Eckerl -
Kris Eckerl filed addendum to Exceptions     6/23/2015

 6/23/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Exceptions addendum - Kris
Eckerl' is made public     6/23/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Attached to Case - Motion to Strike - Matheson Xfer and
Cadden Bros. - Matheson Transfer Company and Cadden Bros. Moving and Storage,
Inc. filed Motion to Strike a late addendum.     7/8/2015

 7/8/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Motion to Strike - Matheson
Xfer and Cadden Bros.' is made public     7/8/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Served - Other - See Comments - Order Served 11/19/2015
11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is made public     11/19/2015

 11/19/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'Opinion and Order -
2429336-OSA - 11-19-15 PM - Petition to Reopen Record - Application of Kris
Eckerl' is eServed - {4C751029-2CD7-40CA-9E31-16668FE0FF9D}     11/19/2015

 12/31/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is made public     12/31/2015

 12/31/2015     Document EServed to POR - Document 'A-2014-2429336 Initial In
Person Hearing.docx' is eServed - {63A71C45-C186-4C96-B14A-0EE58A6EB70B}
12/31/2015

 1/8/2016     Document Published on Web - Document 'Richard T Mulcahey Jr
Original Signature Ltr' is made public



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Dover Express Series

                             May 26, 2016 Thursday

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 109  words


OFFICERS investigating reports of criminal offences committed during the Dover
protests have released images of seven people they want to speak to.

More than 50 arrests have already been made in connection with the far-right
march and separate anti-fascist counter-protest held in the town on Saturday,
January 30.

Detectives continue to review CCTV and social media footage of reported offences
and would like to hear from anyone who recognises those pictured.

Anyone with information is urged to call the appeal line on 01843 222289 quoting
"Operation Skep" or email   opskep@kent.pnn.police.uk

Alternatively call Kent Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests
CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests
CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests
CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests
CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests
CCTV still of person Kent Police want to speak to after Dover protests

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              562 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             April 24, 2016 Sunday

Brotherhood, Misr Al-Qawiya announce support for Monday protests, Tagammu
decries western conspiracy

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 391 words


Ahead of Monday's call for protests to object to the Egyptian-Saudi deal that
transferred the sovereignty of two Red Sea islands to the gulf kingdom,
political parties weighed in with their positions on the planned demonstrations
amid a security crackdown on political activists and journalists.

A number of parties that previously called for protests on 15 April reiterated
their calls for protests on Monday, which coincides with Sinai Liberation Day.

The Misr Al-Qawiya party announced on Saturday its plan to participate by "all
possible means of popular action on a joint national" protest with all those who
seek what is best for the Egyptian people and to preserve "its lands, rights,
and dignity".

"We welcome cooperation with any political faction that opposes the criminality
of this regime regardless of disagreements as long as they are peaceful and
opposing the regime from a political perspective," the party said.

The party's announcement of support came on the backdrop of statements from the
Muslim Brotherhood, which announced their support for the protest. While members
of the Brotherhood participated in the 15 April protest, the group was largely
marginalised during the Friday demonstrations.

The Brotherhood's support received heavy backlash from other parties, such as
the Socialist Popular Alliance and Al-Dostour parties.

The two parties denounced potential participation from the Islamist group in
Monday's protests while supporting the call to protest the transfer of
sovereignty of the islands to Saudi Arabia and condemning the security crackdown
that took place over the weekend.

In a show of support for the state, the leftist Tagammu party issued on Saturday
a statement that condemned calls for protests on Monday as part of "hostile US
and western plots" that aim to create chaos in Egypt.

"The party asserts its rejection of calls to protest, and calls on the Egyptian
people not to be deceived by the illusive slogans," the Tagammu statement read.

Depending on the turnout, the protests would mark the second large gathering of
those protesting the maritime demarcation agreement between Egypt and Saudi
Arabia. In an attempt to thwart another potential gathering, security forces
raided several cafes, public spaces, and homes on Thursday night and Friday,
arresting dozens of people, including some political activists.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2016 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

No blockade in the name of protests from now onward: Mahato

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, April 13 -- United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) leader Rajendra
Mahato has clarified that there would be no blockade in the name of protests
from now onward.

His remarks have come at a time when UDMF has warned of fresh round of protests
from next week if their demands are not addressed by the government immediately.

Speaking at Reporter's Club on Tuesday, Mahato said that there would be no
blockade along Nepal-India border during the protests that UDMF has warned to
resume from next week. "As the blockade did not yield any outcome but only
inflicted hardships to the general public, we are not going to organize any kind
of blockade in the name of protests from now onward," said Mahato, who is also
the president of Sadbhavana Party.

He said that the agitating UDMF would not do anything as such from now onward
that would unleash hardship on the general public. "Our protests will now be
Singha Durbar centric. Let me clarify that our protests is not against any
community but it is to attain rights of the Madhesi people."

He said that the nature of the next round of protests would be of a kind that
would mount maximum pressure on the government without affecting the general
public.

"We will picket Singha Durbar and stage protests unless the new constitution is
amended to include our demands," he said, adding, such protests will also be
organized in various parts of the country.

Mahato also criticized Prime Minister KP Oli's address to the nation on the eve
of the New Year saying that PM Oli would neither provide grant amount to the
quake victims nor address the demands of the agitating Madhesi parties.

He even said that there was no possibility of any dialogue between the agitating
parties and the government as the government showed no interest to sit for talks
even though the UDMF gave ultimatum for talks.

"Calling us for dialogue by the prime minister is nothing more than a tactic to
foil our next round of protests," he said.

He criticized the government for not holding dialogues with the UDMF ever after
two months of calling off the protests.

Mahato said that the UDMF would announce a massive protest program for the next
round of protests by holding discussion with the political parties that are
fighting for ethnic-based identity and other forces.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              564 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Larkana Press Club

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 78

LENGTH: 383  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Larkana Press Club on Thursday. According to the details,
the GSTA members continued their protest demonstration against an attack on
their union leader. While talking to newsmen, the protestors including Abdul
Rasheed Chandio, Mazhar Soomro and others said that armed men have attacked the
GSTA leader Ashiq Memon, while the police have still not arrested the accused
men in the incident which is a condemnable act. On the occasion, the protestors
demanded arrest of the armed men attacking Ashiq Memon, otherwise they have
threatened to accelerate their protest circle. The employees of the District
Council Larkana recorded a protest demonstration for the issuance of their
withheld salaries. The protesting employees said that they have also been
deprived of their salaries since past several months. On the occasion, the
protesting employees demanded of the high-ups to take steps for the issuance of
their withheld salaries, otherwise they have threatened to accelerate their
protest circle. A rickshaw driver namely Qurban Manganhar staged a protest
demonstration for the medical treatment of his ailing son.

The Revenue Department employees led by Mohammad Akram Channa, Mashooq Khoso,
Nisar Solangi and others recorded a protest demonstration and demanded of the
government to accept their charter of demands, otherwise they have threatened to
accelerate their protest circle. A man namely Ghulam Mustafa Langah, resident of
Arzi Bhutto staged a protest demonstration along with his family members against
occupation on his home. On the occasion, the protesting man demanded of the
concerned authorities to take notice of the matter and provide justice to them.
The members of the All Pakistan Clerks' Association Atgricultural Engineering
Workshop Unit took out a protest rally in favor of their demands. The rally was
led by Mohammad Panah Mahar, Mohammad Rafique Junejo, Mohammad Sabir Soomro and
others which marched through different routes and culminated outside the Larkana
Press club. Addressing on the occasion, the leaders demanded up-gradation of the
technical and non technical staff and restore the employees' quota, otherwise
they have threatened to accelerate their protest circle.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              565 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Today's Muslim Peshawar

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

"Stop killing our Christian brothers"

LENGTH: 218  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Horror and anger dominated protests across Pakistan on Monday, as members of the
Christian community took to the streets in Faisalabad, Lahore, Gujranwala and
other urban centers following Sunday's Taliban attack on two churches.

The protests turned violent in Lahore when demonstrators clashed at different
points during the day with dozens of baton-wielding policemen. One protester was
killed while several were injured when a car hit them at Ferozpur Road.
People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn suicide
bombings which took place outside two churches in Lahore, in Peshawar.
People protest holding placards which asks for peace in Pakistan.
Policemen carry bamboo sticks during a protest by Christians mourners in Lahore.

Christians chant slogans during demonstration to condemn the suicide bombing
attack on two churches.
People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn the suicide
bombings.
Members of the Pakistani Christian community chant slogans during a protest
rally in Peshawar.
People from the Christian community attend a protest to condemn suicide bombings

Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.
Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.--

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              566 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Today's Muslim Peshawar

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

"Stop killing our Christian brothers"

LENGTH: 218  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Horror and anger dominated protests across Pakistan on Monday, as members of the
Christian community took to the streets in Faisalabad, Lahore, Gujranwala and
other urban centers following Sunday's Taliban attack on two churches.

The protests turned violent in Lahore when demonstrators clashed at different
points during the day with dozens of baton-wielding policemen. One protester was
killed while several were injured when a car hit them at Ferozpur Road.
People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn suicide
bombings which took place outside two churches in Lahore, in Peshawar.
People protest holding placards which asks for peace in Pakistan.
Policemen carry bamboo sticks during a protest by Christians mourners in Lahore.

Christians chant slogans during demonstration to condemn the suicide bombing
attack on two churches.
People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn the suicide
bombings.
Members of the Pakistani Christian community chant slogans during a protest
rally in Peshawar.
People from the Christian community attend a protest to condemn suicide bombings

Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.
Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.--

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              567 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

Families to protest against Palestinian's political arrests

LENGTH: 165 words


Text of report by pro-Hamas Palestinian Information Centre website on 13
September

[Unattributed report: "Protest in Hebron Today To Reject Political Arrests"]

Hebron - The Committee of Families of Political Detainees in the occupied West
Bank has called for a popular protest today in Hebron, to protest against the
PNA's security apparatuses' practices against public liberties though its
arrests and political summoning of Palestinians.

The committee said in a statement that the protest will take place this
afternoon outside the headquarters of the general intelligence prison in Hebron
in the southern occupied West Bank. They said this protest and other popular
activities condemns the political arrests that the PNA security apparatuses
practice.

The committee called on all people of the West Bank to take part in the protest,
and said that their presence rejects the PNA security's policy of oppression in
the West Bank.

Source: Palestinian Information Centre website in Arabic 13 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 18, 2014 Friday

Pakistan: MQM to stage protest demonstration today

LENGTH: 165  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, April 18 -- The Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) will organize a protest
demonstration outside the Karachi Press Club (KPC) on Thursday (today) against
the 'extra judicial killings and forced disappearances' of its workers.

Deputy Convener and members of Rabita Committee, families of victims, MQM
workers and party supporters will attend the protest demonstration which will be
held at 4:00 pm at KPC.

The MQM has appealed to the people to attend the protest demonstration. The
party has also planned a protest on Friday (tomorrow).

According to a statement issued by the party, the Sindh government is trying to
hush the protest instead of preventing such brutality. Five tortured bodies of
the MQM workers have so far been found while several are still missing, the
statement alleged

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              569 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

Resumption of protests expected in Turkey

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 265 words


March 12--The resumption of protest is expected in Turkey following the death of
a

15-year-old boy Berkin Elvan who was wounded in the head during a rally in
Taksim Square in May last year, the Turkish Milliyet newspaper wrote on March
12.

Mass protests broke out across Turkey Tuesday night following the death of
Elvan, the Turkish Hurriyyet newspaper earlier wrote on March 12.

The boy who remained in a coma almost a year, died on March 11. He was hit in
the head by a tear gas canister.

Despite the crackdown a day before by Turkish police, protesters in Istanbul are
currently erecting barricades, the newspaper said.

The largest demonstrations took place in Turkey's commercial center, Istanbul,
and in the capital Ankara. Turkish police dispersed the demonstrators. Thousands
of protesters gathered in front of the Middle East Technical University where a
considerable police presence was noticed.

Protests had been taking place in Turkey for nearly three weeks since the end of
May 2013.

Turkish authorities said the protests were anti-government.

Turkish opposition parties accuse the police of using excessive force to
disperse the protestors.

Around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in the protest
during that time, according to figures from the Turkish Interior Ministry.

Nearly 4,000 people were injured, and 4,900 were detained by the authorities.

Translated by S.I.

Edited by C.N.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140312-1AZ-Resumption-of-protests-expected-in-Turkey-0312-20140312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              570 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Miadhu (Maldives)

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday

Adheeb urges not to hold politically motivated protests in resorts

LENGTH: 197  words


Minister of Tourism, Ahmed Adheeb has urged all resort workers not to hold
politically motivated protests and demonstrations in the tourist resorts of
Maldives.

Adheeb made this remark speaking at a press conference held yesterday at the
President's Office.

Adheeb said that some people who seeks to run in the Peoples' Majlis elections
previously has used resort workers to hold protests to achieve their political
goals and similarly such a protest was held yesterday.

"Some are holding such protests in the guise of some organizations. However the
question is what is the benefit that is achieved from such protests? It reaps
nothing but harm and damage," he said.

Adheeb said that there exist state institutions to submit complaints regarding
employers. He said that if there are any issues between the employee and the
employers then such matters should be forwarded to those institutions or it can
be forwarded to the Tourism Ministry itself if it is concerning any company
working within the tourism industry.

"So protests should not be held without doing that. And along with that, it
should be known that holding such protests in tourist resorts is illegal in
Maldives," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Miadhu
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

Protests hold Ludhiana to ransom, residents seethe

BYLINE: Aditi Gyanesh

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 277 words


LUDHIANA: City residents are seething over the slew of protests that holds
commuters to ransom on roads. Their primary grouse is that the district
administration has failed to fulfill the promise of a dedicated spot for
protests.

The fourth protest in the last two weeks on Jalandhar Bypass disrupted routine
life. "Everything was okay when I passed through the road in the morning but
after a few hours, a violent protest disrupted traffic. There was news that the
city would get a protest venue but nothing has changed. You need to be ready as
you may never know which road in Ludhiana may be blocked," said Manish Singh, a
resident of Ghumar Mandi.

On Wednesday and Thursday, members of the Dalit community gathered at the city"s
busy Jalandhar Bypass demanding quota in government jobs and exemption from toll
tax, Rs 1,500 as old-age pension, and free medical services.

Dalit organisations had been protesting at the chowk from October 9. Of them, 15
are on a hunger strike. This is the fourth protest in the city. Earlier, people
staged protests at Dugri Urban Estate, phase 2, Bharat Nagar Chowk and twice at
Jalandhar Bypass.

Talking to TOI about the delay in allotment of land for protest, DC Rajat
Aggarwal said, "Mandis have been finalized as the spot for protest but official
allotment will be possible only after the end of the paddy procurement season.
We can"t stop anyone from staging a peaceful protest but the moment they start
disturbing people they will be taken under preventive detention by the police.
Once traffic officials clear the plan, the mandi on Jalandhar Bypass will be
declared as protest ground."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              573 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Date-sheet of teachers protest

BYLINE:  Mansoor Malik

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 270

LENGTH: 937  words


THE schoolteachers are set to launch a protest campaign against the Punjab
government's policies including setting up of the District Education Authority
(DEA), additional duties and penalisation of teachers.

The Punjab Teachers Union (PTU) led by Allah Bakhsh Qaiser and secretary-general
Taj Haider have rejected the government's decision of setting up DEAs,
punishment handed out to teachers on the basis of weak results and non-academic
duties being assigned to the schoolteachers.

Mr Qaiser said the Punjab government's plan to induct seven councillors as DEA
members would destroy the education system because they would not be having
acumen to run the education department affairs in a bid to meet standards and
objectives.

He stressed that the government should improve assessment system so that
real-time results could be attained.

To begin with, the PTU has decided to hold a protest demonstration in front of
the Lahore Press Club, followed by a protest march up to the Punjab Assembly on
Oct 3. Mr Qaiser said the union would organise protest meetings, rallies,
academic boycotts and subsequently hunger-strike camps if the demands were not
met.

Meanwhile, the Joint Action Committee of Teachers, Punjab has decided to observe
Salam Teachers Day on Oct 5 as "Day of Protection of Teachers' Respect". The day
will feature protest camps and protest demonstrations at district and divisional
levels.

Another PTU faction's central president, Syed Sajjad Akbar Kazmi, and other
leaders have said 2013 was very hard for teachers as the government kept
teachers engaged in non-academic duties that led to poor results. He said the
teachers then faced punishments like re-allocation of posts and
'rationalisation'.

Now, Mr Kazmi said the Punjab government was pursuing a policy of setting up
DEAs. He said the officials at the DEAs would have unlimited powers, which would
eventually destroy the education system. He said the teachers, particularly
women, would be harassed. He said the DEAs would also reduce opportunity of
teachers' postings against administrative posts.

Mr Kazmi said the school education department's various policies had failed
because they were formed without the consultation of teachers - the actual
stakeholders. Citing examples, he said, most girls had left schooling due to
consolidation of schools and many students said goodbye to education due to
introduction of English-medium education system in government schools.

Punjab School Education Department's Budget and Planning Deputy Secretary Qaiser
Rasheed, on the other hand, asked why teacher unions were against
accountability. "The accountability system is introduced to improve standards as
well as teachers' performance," he said and added that only the delinquent
teachers were against accountability.

THE College of Home Economics last week organised an awareness seminar on Food
Safety, wherein speakers acknowledged that the "home-made food is the best
food".

College Principal Dr Samia Kalsoom said awareness about safe food needed to be
spread among all segments of society. She stressed that hygiene must be taken
care of as far as food was concerned and dining out should be discouraged.

PML-N MPA Rabia Sultan highlighted the hazards of fast food and referred to the
latest research being conducted in the USA on the use of fast food and
carbonated drinks.

PFA's Ms Fareeha Noor and Mohammad Nadeem, with audio-visual aid, informed the
audience about the hazards involved in substandard food. They also showed video
clips of low standards of cleanliness in restaurants, ice-spots and food sold by
vendors.

They also informed the participants about the positive results of the PFA's
raids conducted on vendors, restaurants, ice-points and bakeries.

THE Punjab University College of Earth and Environmental Sciences last weekend
celebrated the World Tourism Day 2013. This year's theme "Tourism and Water:
Protecting our Common Future" highlighted tourism's role in water access and
actions currently being taken by the sector in order to contribute to a more
sustainable water future, as well as the challenges ahead.

Prof Dr Firdaus-i-Bareen said the responsible and sustainable tourism could help
restore the natural resources.

"EDUCATION is a key tool in combating poverty, promoting peace, social justice,
human rights, democracy, cultural diversity and environmental awareness.
Education for peace implies an active concept of peace through values, life
skills and knowledge in a spirit of equality, respect, empathy, understanding
and mutual appreciation among individuals, groups and nations".

This was stated by former National Commission on the Status of Women chairperson
Dr Arifa Syeda in her special lecture on "Promoting Peace and Reconciliation
through Education", organised by Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto Chair at the Lahore
College for Women University last week.

Dr Arifa, who is a member of visiting faculty at the Forman Christian College,
said the art and culture could bring peace and harmony in society. She said
education was the key to uniting nations, bringing human beings closely
together. In many parts of the world, she said, civil society suffered because
of situations of violent conflicts and war.

LCWU Vice-Chancellor Dr Sabiha Mansoor said the university was focusing on
producing moderate students. She said peace education was the process of
acquiring values, knowledge and developing attitudes, skills and behaviours to
live in harmony with oneself, with others, and with the natural environment.

"The universities can play a vital role in bringing peace and harmony in society
through education," Dr Mansoor said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2013 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

Protest against polluted water in Weliweriya

LENGTH: 259 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, July 29 -- About 1,000 people took part in a protest held on Saturday
and Sunday in Gampaha area to protest against the negligence of the authorities
to take measures to solve the contamination problem of the Attanagalu Oya
catchment area.Officers of the Water Supply and Drainage Board have stated that
water in Attanagalu Oya and many wells in the area is not suitable for drinking.

Residents of Rathupaswala, Nedungamuwa, Weliweriya , Haloluwa, Sivuralamulla,
Uruwala, Buthpitiya, Pilikotuwa, Katuruwatta, Belummahara and Miriswatta
participated in the protest.

They complained of various diseases they have been subject to as a result of
drinking contaminated water.

The Chief Incumbent of the Sri Sambuddha Jayanthi Vihara Ven. Siridhamma Thera
began a fasting protest yesterday to protest over this issue.

The protest held on Saturday had interrupted the traffic along the New Kandy
Road.

Police officers from several stations had to be deployed to control the
protesters.

People blamed a factory in the area for causing the contamination. They also
engaged in heated arguments with police officers.

After an assurance given by SP Vijitha D. Komasaru and ASP Chandana Kodithuwakku
in the presence of DIG L.G. Kularathna, the protesters dispersed.

The DIG promised the protestors that he would arrange a meeting with Minister
Basil Rajapakse.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              578 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Balochistan Express

                             March 11, 2013 Monday

Badami Bagh tragedy: Christian community holds countrywide protests

LENGTH: 347  words


The Christian community is holding protests throughout the country against
Badami Bagh, Lahore, incident.

In Lahore, the protestors completely destroyed Yuhana Abad Metro Bus Station and
set ablaze electric transformer.

Police used tear gas and rounded up some miscreants.

PPP Minority Wing also held a protest rally in front of Punjab Assembly against
Badami Bagh incident.

On the other hand 5 policemen were injured in tone pelting by the protestors at
Ferozepur road.

Christian community also held a protest demonstration at Faizabad interchange
Rawalpindi against the incident.

In Faisalabad, the District Aman Committee protested against the Lahore
incident.

Local Islamic clerics, students and people from various walks of life also
attended the protest demonstration.

Police resorted to tear gas shelling and aerial firing in front of Press Club to
disperse the protest rally in Karachi. The demonstrators turned violent and
torched some of the vehicles and pelted stones at police.

Protests were also reported in Mandi Bahauddin, Sargodha, Gojra, Dera Ismail
Khan, Peshawar and Gujranwala.

In Sind, Christian communities held protest demonstrations in Karachi and
Sukkur.

The protesters demanded to immediately arrest the miscreants.

PPP member of Punjab Assembly and President of Punjab PPP Minorities Wing,
Pervez Rafiq has resigned in protest against Badami Bagh incident.

Meanwhile, Chief Minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif visited the Josef Colony and
directed authorities to swiftly address the grievances of the people.

He said Badami Bagh incident is an attempt to mutilate the image of Pakistan. He
said culprits will be brought to justice.

Pakistan Qaumi Masiha Party and Pakistan Minorities League staged a protest
outside Lahore Press Club on Sunday.

Meanwhile, Chief Justice of Pakistan Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry has
taken suo-moto notice of Joseph Colony, Badami Bagh, Lahore incident and hearing
will be held today (Monday).

On March 9, over 150 homes of the Christian community were ransacked and set on
fire by an angry mob over alleged blasphemy committed by Sawan Masih.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Daily Balochistan Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              580 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            January 21, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Protests an inconvenient part of living in a democracy

BYLINE: Nathalie Des Rosiers, The Windsor Star

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Guest Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 488 words


The right to protest disturbs and disrupts. It is meant to. It disturbs ordinary
people who may be delayed, inconvenienced or unable to do business as usual. It
disturbs businesses for whom any change in scheduling may mean additional costs.

It should disturb the government, whose job it is to facilitate our life in a
democracy and who wants to offer us a prosperous place to live.

When protests disturb and paralyze traffic, what should be done? During the
"printemps erable" last spring in Quebec, we witnessed a variety of responses.

The government initially ignored the protests, and the protests grew larger.
Some people took their anger to the courts and sought injunctions, which led to
arrests, violent interaction between police and protesters, more court
challenges, more arrests, and even more tear gas and broken shop windows.

Then the Quebec government enacted a special law that would have significantly
curtailed the right to protest, which was met by a broadening of support for the
protest movement and eventually by an election when the newly elected Parti
Québécois "revoked" the legislation.

There are lessons to be learned here.

Finance Minister Jim Flaherty worries that continuous indigenous blockades
threaten economic recovery. He may be right, and the government has choices: It
can ignore the protest, hoping that, over time, protesters will tire, their
numbers decrease and their public support wane.

It can "criminalize" the protest, seeking injunctions to stop blockades, call
the police and arrest people. It can even pass a statute to give itself larger
powers to do so. Or it can opt to attempt to remedy the problem at the root of
the protest, and commit to a resolution.

The police's job is to enforce the law, and they must protect the right to
protest. Their primary aim is often to de-escalate the potential for violent
interruption.

A decision not to intervene is often the smartest thing to do. Charges can be
laid after if there has been criminal behaviour.

But people ask: How long can a protest go on? How long can the patience of
ordinary people be taxed? As long as the political struggle gains enough
supporters to keep the action going, or as long as the government takes to
resolve the issue, is the answer.

There are certainly limits to the right to protest: There is no constitutional
right to violent action nor to endanger someone's life. Protests let emergency
vehicles go through. Occasionally, other essential services can also be
negotiated with the protest movement.

It must be remembered that protests are legitimate forms of political expression
and they do disturb - but so do elections, road construction, closing the
streets for parades, fundraising races and motorcades. All are part of living in
a democracy. It is messy but better than the alternative.

Nathalie Des Rosiers is general counsel of Canadian Civil Liberties Association.
This column was written for Postmedia News.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Woods, The Canadian Press; Four aboriginal protesters prepare to
be arrested at a blockade of CN Rail track near Portage la Prairie, Man., last
week. Such protests are a part of democracy, Nathalie des Rosiers writes.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              581 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Pakistan: Pro-Altaf protests, rallies held in Karachi, other cities of Sindh

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- Peaceful protests were staged across Karachi and other
cities of Sindh on Saturday to express solidarity with MQM chief Altaf Hussain.

The protests were held a day after the Supreme Court issued a contempt notice to
Altaf Hussain for his criticism of judges.

A large number of people attended the protests.

Residents of Shah Faisal Colony took to the streets and held a peaceful protest
in favour of Altaf Hussain.

Similarly, protests were staged in Gulshan-e-Iqbal, Nipa Chowrangi and
Liaquatabad, attended by large numbers of women and children.

Demonstrators said that they would stand by MQM chief.

Later, all rallies culminated peacefully.

Apart from Karachi, protests were held in different cities of Sindh.

Unknown persons set tires on fire and staged sits-in in Hyderabad, Mirpur Khas,
Nawabshah and Sukkur.

In Hyderabad, protest demonstrations were held in Hyder Chow Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              582 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

Protests against blasphemous film continue

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Oct. 1 -- Protests against the sacrilegious film made in the US
continued on Sunday as several religious parties and members of civil society
held demonstrations and brought out rallies in the city.

Rallies, seminars and protest demonstrations were held on The Mall Road, at
Lahore Press Club and other parts of the city. Jamaatud Dawa staged a massive
protest rally on The Mall during which traffic remained blocked. The
demonstrators shouted slogans against the film and demanded that the government
take appropriate steps to register its protest at international level and ask
world leaders to devise laws against such sacrilegious acts.

Another protest was staged by the Majlis-e-Ahrar Pakistan outside Lahore Press
Club where dozens of party activists joined the demonstration.

Addressing the gathering, speakers said that the "western civilisation has been
defeated and the Islamic civilisation is replacing it".

They said that a western newspaper had printed blasphemous caricatures dozens of
time which proved the West which is proud of its civilisation had resorted to
mean acts.

Another protest by the youth was staged outside the press club during which
children also recorded a silent protest against the blasphemous movie. Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              583 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Police track organisers;
PROTEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 150 words


ORGANISERS of a so-called Muslim protest planned in Melbourne on Sunday are not
Muslim and have been involved in violent protests in the past, police say.

The protest, expected to be held at the State Library, was revealed when senior
police met Muslim community leaders on Tuesday, with elders saying they did not
support any planned protests this weekend and urging those who did take part to
do so peacefully.

Deputy police commissioner Tim Cartwright said police were tracking the
organisers but so far had not had direct contact with them or those behind a
counter-protest urging violence worse than the Cronulla riots. None of the
leaders had come forward to identify themselves. ''Our intelligence suggests . .
. it's not actually the Islamic community that's organising these protests.

It's, in fact, other groups and these groups have been associated with violent
protests in the past,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              584 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday

Protests continue in Afghanistan over burning of Koran

LENGTH: 561 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Ariana TV

[Presenter] Report says that despite the apologies by US officials about the
burning of copies of the Holy Koran, protests in various provinces of
Afghanistan have entered a forth day.

In some parts of the country, protests have turned violent, resulting in deaths
and injuries among people.

[Correspondent] The protests in Kabul started from Pol-e Charkhi. According to
Gen Mohammad Ayub Salangi, some armed protestors opened fire at riot police and
caused fire at two security check posts.

Mr Salangi says some MPs are fuelling the protests but he did not give any
names.

[Captioned as Gen Mohammad Ayub Salangi, the security commander of Kabul] A
vehicle belonging to one of the MPs, who was not identified, was equipped with a
PK machine gun. There were two Datsun vehicles and one Land Cruiser. The
mentioned vehicles opened fire at police which resulted in burning two security
check posts and according to some eyewitnesses one civilian was wounded.

[Correspondent] At least eight people were killed and 65 others were wounded in
violent protests in Herat. According to the spokesman for Herat Province
governor, Mohioddin Nuri, the protests were held in Herat city, Adraskan
District and Torghundi town.

According to Nuri 22 suspects were detained in connection with the violent
protests.

In Baghlan, protestors tried to enter the [compound of the] Hungarian Provincial
Rehabilitation Team.

Despite the fact that religious scholars called on people to hold peaceful
protests, today's protests in the province turned violent as a result of which
at least one person was killed and six others wounded.

An army official in the province said three soldiers were also wounded with
stones thrown by protestors.

The protests in Khost Province also led to violence. After Friday prayers, the
protestors staged a protest and set fire to 15 vehicles which was carrying
foodstuffs for foreign forces. The protestors also prevented the fire department
from putting out the fire.

Officials at Khost Provincial Hospital said that as a result of today's protest
in the mentioned province, two dead bodies and 12 injured people were brought to
the hospital.

In Gardez, the capital of Paktia Province, two people were wounded as a result
of protests.

Protests also continued in Jalalabad city and some districts of Nangarhar
Province, and the protestors demanded severe punishment for the perpetrators
behind the desecration of the Holy Koran. Torkham highway and some roads leading
to the districts of this province remained closed for few hours.

In Zabol Province, a peaceful protest was held and the protestors called on the
international community to respect the Afghans' religious beliefs and national
values.

A peaceful protest was also held in Konduz Province. The protestors issued a
statement in which they demanded severe punishment for the perpetrators behind
the desecration of the Holy Koran.

However, in Fariab religious scholars and mosque preachers prevented protests.
The deputy head of the Fariab Provincial Council said that with the help of
religious scholars no protest was allowed in the province.

According to him, if thousands of protestors entered Maymana city, their protest
would definitely lead to violence as a result of which only civilians would have
been harmed.

Source: Ariana TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530gmt 24 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

NPSU holds protest against recruitment policy

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: Vijaypur


Vijaypur, Nov. 16 -- A strong protest today was held against the new recruitment
policy and the fresh list of J&K Bank employees. The protest was held at Govt.
Boys Hr. Sec Samba under the banner of National Panthers Students Union (NPSU).
The students of the said school boycotted their classes and came out the school
campus for protest under the leadership of Monish Jamwal, Babar Singh Sambyal,
Abhishek Singh Hannu & Shubam Sambyal.

The students started their protest and by raising slogans against the state
govt. Heavy arrangement of police stopped them. Then the activists started their
protest there where they were stopped by police.

Babar Singh said that the state government did not want that the youth of J&K
get fair opportunities. Lucky Sambyal said that their protest would continue and
a strong agitation by the youth of J&K will only responsible for that.

While addressing the protest Kusum Khajuria (Provincial Gen. Secretary NPSU)
warned the govt. of Jammu and Kashmir take its decision back on recruitment
otherwise a mass level agitation will be resorted to. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


                              586 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday

Different protest staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 117

LENGTH: 275  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Saturday. According to the details, the
activists of JSSF and JSMM under the leadership of Hafeez Pirzada and others
staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of JSMM leader Muzaffar Bhutto.
The members of Hari Himat Welfare Society Hyderabad under the leadership of
Comrade Ghulam Hussain and others staged a protest demonstration for the
recovery of Dheeru Kolhi. The members of All Sindh Education Department Lower
Staff Association under the leadership of Faqeer Chang and others staged a
protest demonstration against the arrest of their union leaders by Karachi
Police.

The members of Town Planners Association Sindh under the leadership of Shamsher
Ali Khan, Rizwan Ali Memon and others staged a protest demonstration in favor of
their demands. The members of Islami Halkaye Hyderabad Chapter under the
leadership of Col. Rtd Abdul Aziz, Shafi Muhammad Lakho and others staged a
protest demonstration against Raymond Davis and for the release of Dr Aafia
Siddiqui. A flood-affected woman namely Bilqees along with her 3 disabled
daughters including Rasheeda, Aneela and Sameena staged a protest demonstration
against non-issuance of Watan Card and other facilities.

The members of Flood Affectees Rehabilitation Movement Sindh under the
leadership of Ali Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for
the rehabilitation of IDPs of Sindh. The members of Hyderabad Action Committee
under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and others continued their
protest demonstration against Habib Group Farms.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               November 16, 2010

Strode's College Students Have Their Say on Education Cuts Protest

SECTION: YOURNEWS SCHOOLS

LENGTH: 350 words


With home-made but slightly lacklusture banners in their hands and heads full of
revolutionary dreams, Strode's college students milled into London on the 10th
November. Strode's, of Egham, was not one of the colleges home to students
radical enough to make it onto the roof of Millbank, the building that houses
the Conservatives in their decision-making. However, several Strode's students
were present at the largely-peaceful protest, and opinions have clashed over how
effective the protest actually was.

Not all students show their support for their peers' actions. One Strode's
College student, Kirsty Capes, who did not attend the protest, said 'I am
ashamed of my generation for acting like idiots and throwing bottles at the
police. That's not going to persuade them that we're deserving of any kind of
leeway in terms of reducing the cuts on tuition fees.' Many others did not
support the actions of attendees over the Millbank riots or the protest as a
whole. Prior to the protest, one student wrote on the Facebook event page 'find
something better to protest about, you'll never change things like this'.

However, some still stand by the actions of their generation. One Strode's
protester, Natalie Nanda, said 'people keep saying that we should have just made
it a peaceful protest, but no one listens to peace.'. Another protest attendee
went as far as saying 'It turned violent? Good'. However the general feeling of
most protesters, particularly those at Strode's, seem to be regretful that the
protest turned so sour. Many who attended seem enraged by those who turned
passion into violence, for instance John Evred, who bluntly summed up his view,
'I thought the protest would go that way, once the crusty anarchists started
lighting flares I left'.

Whether the protest will have any impact on the Conservative's policy remains to
be seen. There has been no developments so far that indicate any changes will be
made in favor of student protests. Several related protest events have sprung up
around the internet, but only time will tell whether violence can overcome
reason this time.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              588 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Adnkronos International, Rome

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             October 8, 2010 Friday

Italy: Immigrant labourers protest exploitation

BYLINE: Adnkronos International, Rome

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


Oct. 08--Hundreds of immigrant labourers in Italy's southern Campania region on
Friday walked off the job to protest exploitation in agriculture as well as in
warehouses and on building sites. Many of those who took part in the protests,
held in various locations in and near Naples, were African.

"I won't work for less than 50 euros a day," read placards that many of the
protesters wore around their necks.

"The immigrants are hired off the books, exploited and often maltreated by their
employers," one of the protest organisers, Mimma D'Amico, told Adnkronos.

She said labourers who took part in the protests risked being reported to police
as "irregular migrants" as well as losing their pay.

The labourers were due to hold a protest march on Saturday in the Campania town
of Caserta, organisers said.

In January, Italian authorities evacuated more than 1,200 immigrants, many of
them African farm workers from the southern town of Rosarno, after dozens were
injured in two days of violent clashes with Italian locals.

Hundreds of immigrants, most of them Africans employed illegally as labourers
for less than 25 euros a day, took to the streets of the Calabrian town in a
violent rampage after two of them were shot at with air rifles by unidentified
gunmen.

At least 65 immigrants, residents, police officers were injured in the riots.
Among the worst seen in Italy in recent years, they drew criticism from Pope
Benedict XVI and Italy's president Giorgio Napolitano and sparked a fierce
political debate across the country.

The riots also raised serious questions about the role of the powerful Calabrian
Mafia, or Ndrangheta, in the exploitation of illegal immigrants.

To see more of the Adnkronos International, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to www.adnkronos.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Adnkronos International, Rome
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101008-YR-IMMIGRANT-LABORER-PROTEST-20101008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YR


                                 Copyright 2010


                              589 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday

Different protest demonstrations staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1563

LENGTH: 273  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Friday.  According to details, the activists of Awami Tehreek and Sindhyani
Tehreek Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of Imran Samo, Noor Ahmed Katiyar
and others staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of villages of
Hyderabad.

A contractor namely Abdul Rasheed Solangi, resident of district Jamshoro staged
a protest demonstration against Kela Ram, the Executive Engineer Roads and Works
Department district Jamshoro for getting alleged incentives for issuance of
tenders. The women residents of Hala Naka Hyderabad under the leadership of
Sakina and others staged a protest demonstration against the non-provision of
BISP forms.

A man namely Abdul Qadir Noonari, resident of Aliabad Colony Hala Naka Hyderabad
staged a protest demonstration for release of his uncle namely Ali Muhammad
Noonari. The people of Bheel community under the leadership of Mevo Bheel and
others, residents of district Matiari staged a protest demonstration against the
atrocities of a landlord.

The people of Kolhi community under the leadership of Maan Singh, Radha and
others, residents of Hoosri district Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration
for recovery of their kidnapped girl Lali Kolhi. The driver of Education
Department Hyderabad namely Punhon Khaskheli along with his family members
staged a protest demonstration against the former Additional Director of Zubaida
Colleges Hyderabad. The former employees of SRTC under the leadership of Haji
Ghulam Mohammad Depar and others staged a protest demonstration for provision of
their remaining dues.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio & Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1391

LENGTH: 256  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by various people in favour of
their demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club of Saturday.

According to the details, a resident of Chakwal Punjab namely Shafiq-ur-Rehman
staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his missing brother namely
Aziz Ahmed. The employees of the Food Department under the leadership of Babu
Sheedi, Mehmood Mangrio and others staged a protest demonstration for increase
in their salaries and regularization of their services.

The people of the Solangi Community, residents of village Darya Khan near
Hyderabad including Irfan Ali Solangi, Mirzadi Solangi and others staged a
protest demonstration for the arrest of the murderers of their community woman
namely Janat Khatoon. The people of the Shaikh community including Abdul Ghafoor
Shaikh and others, residents of village Muhammad Ismail near Hyderabad staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of their community youth namely Mumtaz
Shaikh.

The people of the Solangi community, residents of village Pechuha district Dadu
staged a protest demonstration against the alleged atrocities of Dadu Police.
The people of the Chakrani community including Ghulam Ali Chakrani, Ali Nawaz
Chakrani and others staged a protest demonstration against the alleged
atrocities of an influential landlord of their area. The members of the Thar
Development Society under the leadership of Faiz Kerio, Kishore Kumar, Arbab
Khuhawar and others staged a protest demonstration against the hunting of
precious birds in Thar.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Hindustan Times (New Delhi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday

BRIEF: Protest over temple priests continue

BYLINE: Anirban Roy, Hindustan Times, New Delhi

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 190 words


Jan. 7--KATHMANDU -- Even after the ban on protests and rallies around
Pashupatinath temple, people on Tuesday continued with demonstrations close to
the holiest Hindu shrine of Nepal.

The Pashupati Area Development Trust (PDAT) on Monday evening had announced ban
on protests and rallies in and around the 17th century shrine as the disapproval
over the appointment of two Nepali priests had resulted in a violent protest.

The Bhandaris (junior priests) of the shrine have also reportedly extended
support to the protests on Tuesday, which interrupted vehicular movement in
Gaushala and Chahabil areas.

The protesters shouted slogans against the Maoist-led government and demanded
resignation of Prime Minister Prachanda.

To see more of the Hindustan Times or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hindustantimes.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hindustan Times, New Delhi
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090107-HJ-BRF-Protest-over-temple-priests-continue-0107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HJ


                          Copyright 2009 HT Media Ltd.


                              592 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday

Thai activists protest at Chinese embassy against Tibet crackdown

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 19 March

[Unattributed report from the "Breaking News" section: "Pro-Tibet protesters
rally outside Chinese embassy"]

(BangkokPost.com) -More than 20 people gathered in front of the Chinese Embassy
in Bangkok on Wednesday to protest Beijing's crackdown on anti-government
protests in Tibet.

The protest, led by activist Jai Ungphakorn, demanded that the Chinese
government should stop the killing and human rights abuses against the Tibetans.

The protest here is one of many staged outside Chinese embassies around the
world including Nepal, Taiwan, the Philippines and Australia.

The protests began on March 10, the anniversary of a failed 1959 uprising
against Chinese rule that sent the Dalai Lama into exile. They turned violent on
Friday.

Tibet's government-in-exile said the "confirmed" Tibetan death toll from more
than a week of unrest was 99. China has said "13 innocent civilians" died and
that it used no "lethal" force to subdue the rioting.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 19 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              594 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 21, 2001

Thousands of students expected to protest at Dail today

BYLINE: By EMMET OLIVER EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT, and TIM O'BRIEN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 472 words


Thousands of second-level pupils are expected to protest outside the Dail today
at the continuation of the teachers' strike which has entered its most
intractable phase.

The protest follows a wave of student demonstrations around the State yesterday
with pupils in many schools walking out of their classrooms. The protests were
directed at teachers and the Government.

Today's protest is expected to draw a large crowd, with some predicting that up
to 5,000 pupils may attend. A similar protest outside the Dail before Christmas
attracted several hundred, but since then many pupils have been holding protests
in their own schools.

The protest is due to take place outside the Dail at midday, although a small
number of schools were planning to hold their protest at 10 a.m.

In another development parents in several areas have written to their boards of
management asking that study time be set aside for their children within the
school during strike days.

Parents in many cases have offered to supervise the study periods, but some
boards are worried about the health and safety implications of this.

The Association of Secondary Teachers, Ireland (ASTI) is resuming strikes today
and tomorrow and up to 600 schools will be closed.

The most vocal of yesterday's protests were at the Department of Education's
exams branch in Athlone, Co Westmeath, where staff had to lock doors and close
blinds as up to 500 students protested outside.

The pupils of Our Lady's Bower, St Aloysius's and Marian College schools banged
on doors and windows in protest at the Department's failure to reach agreement
with the ASTI.

According to Alan Earls, a pupil at St Aloysius's, the teachers were being
"completely irresponsible" and had no reason "to disrupt our exams, our
futures".

A school-friend, Paddy Harney, also criticised the teachers saying: "They have
enough, it is a national disgrace what they are doing."

Another St Aloysius's pupil, Cathal Lennon, said the teachers' action was
"completely unfair".

A schoolgirl from Our Lady's Bower said it was "completely unjustified that our
future careers can be damaged by the teachers' greed and selfishness. This
dispute shows that they just don't really care about us, they are in it for the
money and the hours."

Later as staff looked on in alarm, straw at the gates of the compound - part of
foot-and-mouth disease precautions - was set alight by other, unidentified
protesters.

The head of the Marist College, Brother John, said up to 300 of the school's 495
pupils had left classes to take part in the march.

"We have some sympathy for their concerns and their parents' concerns," he said.
"We are caught in the middle. All we can do is urge both sides to come together
and resolve the issue before the doomsday situation of no exams is faced."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


                              595 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Calgary Sun

                           October 22, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NFL fans have knee problem; Folks watching fewer football games because of
protest: Poll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A52

LENGTH: 217  words


Fewer people are tuning into NFL games and San Francisco quarterback Colin
Kaepernick's anthem protests are to blame, according to a Yahoo! Sports poll.

In the survey of 1,136 Americans who identified themselves as NFL fans, 29% said
they're watching fewer NFL games - of these folks, 40% claim it's because of

Kaepernick's protests.

During the preseason, Kaepernick began kneeling or remained seated during the
national anthem in protest of police violence against minorities in America and
he has continued his protest.

Many other players have shown support for Kaepernick by "taking a knee." The
poll also showed that more older folks cited the protests as the main reason for
tuning out of NFL games (53%), as opposed to the coveted 18-to 34-year-old group
- only 13% of those respondents pointed to the protests as their reason for
watching less football.

And these viewing habits could migrate to other sports if they also get on the
protest bandwagon, according to the poll - 17% of basketball fans, 28% of
baseball fans and 31% of hockey fans would watch fewer games if similar protests
were held.

According to Yahoo! Sports, a similar NFL study in September also found 44% of
surveyed fans would stop watching if the protests continued. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016
Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Getty File Image; San Francisco 49ers Eli Harold, left, Colin
Kaepernick and Eric Reid kneel in protest during the national anthem on Oct. 6.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Calgary Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              599 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday

Govt plans crackdown on 200 protesting Govt employees

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, Sept. 6 -- The state government has decided to go cracking at the
government employees who are part of the protests going on in Kashmir. The
intelligence agencies have submitted a list of about 200 government employees
who are actively involved in the protests and the government has reportedly
given its approval to file cases against them.

"It's the first list of about 200 government employees who are not only actively
participating in the protests but also insitigating and organizing protests.
They are also reportedly pouring out money to prolong the protests. We will file
strict cases against them and will ensure that they are dismissed from the
government services," said a top official.

The government had a long list of the employees who are in the forefront of the
protests. The sources said that initial reponse of the government was that they
protests may go away soon, so decided not to go against them.

"The government employees believe that the situation has returned to early '90s
when many government employees had openly protested against the then government
and some police personnel had even staged a mini mutiny. But, they have
forgotten that situation has turned around diametrically in the last two-decades
and such things can't be tolerated," said the official.

The crack down comes at a time when the home ministry has decided to go all out
at the separatists. The all party delegation which visited the state have
supported the government move, which will ensure that the separatist will not be
entitled to any security cover or other free bies at the expense of the state
exchequer. "It's now an all out offensive against the separatists and their
supporters at all level. They are simply living in a delusion to get their writ
all the time. It's time to go cracking and now they will realize that they are
dealing with the Modi government," said the official.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              600 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                           September 6, 2016 Tuesday

KZN leads in protest violence

BYLINE: Nomahlubi Jordaan

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 209 words


VIOLENCE during public protests has surged - and KwaZulu-Natal is leading the
charge.
 It had more violent protests, 786, than any other province in the 2015-2016
year.


 Cases of violent unrest have surged from 1226 in 2011-2012 to 3542 in 2015-2016
according to the latest police crime statistics. The number of peaceful protests
also increased, from 10832 to 11151, over the same period.
 The Eastern Cape recorded the second-highest number of violent protests, 661.
 Gauteng had 638, Limpopo 448  Mpumalanga 274 and the Western Cape 250.
 There were 245 violent protests in the North West and 141 in the Northern Cape.
The Free State had the lowest number, 99.
 Acting national police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane said
protests are his biggest problem and a diversion of time and resources from
normal policing.
 Lizette Lancaster  crime and justice hub manager at the Institute for Security
Studies  said that most violent protests stemmed from severe inequality and
poverty.
 "Often people that mobilise feel there is no other way to address their
grievances."
 She said the most common triggers of violent protest included poor
infrastructure and municipal services  low levels of access to resources and
lack of trust in the authorities.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2016 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              601 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                            September 2, 2016 Friday

Protest in Jaffna today

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Sept. 2 -- The war victims will stage a protest today demanding
justice to draw the attention of United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon,
Northern Provincial Council member K. Sivajilingam said. He made this
observation at a press conference at the Jaffna Media Centre yesterday. UN
Secretary General Ban Ki Moon is scheduled to visit Jaffna and several parts of
the Northern Province to inspect the resettlement process.

"There is a strong allegation against the United Nations that they failed to
support the Tamil community during the war. The war victims will stage a protest
to seek the attention of the UN Secretary General regarding the release of the
political prisoners, prevailing land issues and justice for the missing
persons,"he said.

He added that the people are expected to join the protest to be staged opposite
the District Secretariat around 12 noon today.

Stating that the protest will be conducted in a peaceful manner, Sivajilingam
added that the protest is not against the UN Secretary General. "Many people
were affected by war. The protest is to seek the Secretary General's attention
to arrive at a solution,"he said adding that the protest should not be viewed
from a negative perspective.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              602 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             July 26, 2016 Tuesday

Protests against Indian agression in IHK held

BYLINE: Mubashar Naqvi

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 206

LENGTH: 355  words


In Azad Jammu and Kashmir, protest demonstrations, rallies and sit-ins are being
held to condemn the worst ever state terrorism by Indian military and Para
military forces in Occupied Jammu and Kashmir.

People of Azad Jammu and Kashmir through these protest demonstration are
expressing solidarity with the people of Occupied Jammu and Kashmir who have
been struggling to achieve their internationally recognized right to self
determination.

In this connection, a big protest demonstration was held in front of Central
Press Club here on Monday. Leaders and representatives of various political
parties, religious and social organizations, civil society members and people
belonging to all walks of life participated in the protest demonstration.

The participants of the protest demonstration including women and children were
holding banners and placards inscribed with pro freedom and anti India slogans.

They were demanding United Nation, OIC and other peace loving nations to
intervene and pressurize India to stop massive human rights violations in held
territory.

Speakers on this occasion said that Indian forces had crossed all limits of
oppression in the held valley and trying to repress the indigenous Kashmir
liberation movement through brutal killings of youth, imposition of curfew and
harassment of women in Occupied Kashmir.

They deplored that due to unprovoked firing on peaceful protestors more than 60
people of have lost their lives while hundreds had been maimed and handicapped
forever.

They demanded to the World body to stop India for killing innocent Kashmiris in
Occupied Kashmir and to implement UNSC resolutions granting Kashmiris their
fundamental right to self determination which is imperative for establishing
durable peace in the nuclear South Asia.

Speakers including Senior Vice Chairman International Form for Justice and Peace
Mushtaq ul Islam, representative of Pasban-e-Hurriyat Uzair Ghazali, Shoukat
Javed Mir, Yousaf Butt spoke on the occasion.

Special prayers were also offered for the martyrs of Kashmir liberation struggle
and early liberation of occupied Jammu and Kashmir from Indian clutches.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              603 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                             June 1, 2016 Wednesday

Nurses continue to protest for their rights, demands

BYLINE: Imran Chaudhry

SECTION: Vol. 14 No. 153

LENGTH: 404  words


The Young Nurses Association (YNA) of government hospitals continued to protest
for the second day against the government for not fulfilling their demands of
health risk allowances and service structure reforms in front of Punjab
Assembly, The Mall on Tuesday.

It is pertinent to mention that nurses had also held a sit-in on Monday outside
the Punjab Assembly. A representative of the Young Nurses Alliance (YNA) had
stated that the nurses from all government hospitals would stage their sit-in
protest by 9am.

The nurses' protest at Faisal Chowk proved to be a hindrance as traffic jam
ensued in the surrounding area due to their protest. Nurses called for
implementation of the already announced service structure as well as their
health risk allowance.

The nurses camped on The Mall and also boycotted their indoor and outdoor duties
in public hospitals. Their boycott caused many problems for the patients while
their protest also blocked the roads, causing massive traffic jams. The Mall,
Ganga Ram Hospital Road and Davis Road suffered the most at hands of the
protest. YNA was protesting for their longstanding demands of appraisal in
salaries, reforms in service structure and provision of health risk allowance.
The nurses on the occasion vowed to continue their protest until the fulfillment
of their demands.

The previous day, nurses' strike had caused difficulties for citizens as their
protest caused problems for daily commuters. Ambulances also faced trouble
passing through Shahrah-e-Fatima Jinnah and The Mall, as both of these roads
were blocked due to the protest.

After the protest, Punjab Chief Minister's Adviser on Health Khawja Salman
Rafeeq issued a warning to all those who were instigating nurses to go on
strikes, saying that they would face strict action.

The protesters chanted slogans against the hospital administration for not
approving their basic demands. However, the government and other concerned
departments, including police, have planned to disperse the protesting nurses by
imposing on them charges of violation of the court order that made it illegal to
protest against government on The Mall.

YNA members Rosina and Nusrat Cheema said that the administration had shut down
all the roads and streetlights around the protesting venue and later arrested
the protestors forcefully. They said that the concerned officials cordon off the
area and there might be a crackdown against them soon.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              604 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             August 16, 2015 Sunday

NHRC against use of children in protests

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Aug. 16 -- The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the
organizers of protest programs and general strikes to not involve children in
their protest activities.

Issuing a press statement on Sunday, the commission said it is concerned over
use of children for protests being held in various districts against the
proposed delineation of provinces.

"The use of children of tender age in protest programs and writing slogans on
their half-nude body is against child rights," stated the commission. "Thus we
urge organizers of such protests to stop using innocent children," the statement
said.

The commission has also urged the government to take necessary action against
individuals using children for protest activities. "Using children for protest
activities is a condemnable act," stated the NHRC. The NHRC has urged all the
concerned agencies and persons to protect child rights.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              605 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

Illinois: How Illinois Companies Should Protest the IDES Notice of Determination
and Assessment Arising Out of An IDES Audit

LENGTH: 617  words

DATELINE: Springfield


Elgin Area Chamber of Commerce has issued the following news release:


When a company is found, upon IDES audit, to have MISCLASSIFIED "independent
contractors", money will be owed to the IDES.  This is because the company
should have paid into the IDES on these misclassified individuals.  The IDES
auditor does not tell the audited company how much it will owe the IDES.  No,
the IDES auditor merely advises the audited company (at the conclusion of the
audit) that in a few weeks' time, the actual tax bill will come.  It is called
the "Notice of Determination and Assessment".



TAX BILL: The Notice of Determination and Assessment is a tax bill by the IDES
(to the company who has been audited).  It tells the company exactly how much
money is now owed to the IDES.  It also shows interest and penalties owed.
Interest can be surprisingly hefty---at the shocking rate of 24% per year!!

SIMPLE PROTEST FORM: The best advice is usually to protest the Notice of
Determination and Assessment.  There is a simple protest form.  It only requires
a few well-chosen sentences as to why you don't agree with the auditor's
findings.

IF PROTEST IS LATE, YOU LOSE ALL RIGHTS TO APPEAL: The most important part of
the protest process is to fax it ON TIME to the IDES!  If the protest is even
one day late, the protest is no good.  You have lost all rights of appeal!

So....be sure that you protest within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing of
the Notice of Determination and Assessment (sometimes called the "D & A" for
short).

Remember---don't delay protesting when the D & A arrives in the mail!!  If you
blow the strict twenty day deadline for protesting, the D & A becomes "final,
due and owing"!

NOTICE OF HEARING: Once you have protested timely, you will eventually get a
Notice of Hearing in the mail.  Now you have a valuable opportunity to
participate in a hearing (to decide if the auditor was right or wrong about your
supposed misclassification of your independent contractors and many other
related issues).


For assistance with IDES audits, hearings, and independent contractor agreements
(or for consultations on limiting your liability in the use of independent
contractors), contact Attorney Nancy E. Joerg, who enjoys a nationwide
reputation in working with companies who use Independent Contractors of all
types. Nancy Joerg can be reached at Wessels Sherman's St. Charles, Illinois
office: 630-377-1554 or email her at najoerg@wesselssherman.com

Areas of Practice: Nancy Joerg represents employers in administrative actions,
hearings, and audits before the Illinois Department of Human Rights, the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, the Cook County Commission on Human Rights,
the Illinois Department of Employment Security, the Illinois Department of
Labor, and the U.S. Department of Labor.

She represents employers in all types of unemployment insurance (IDES) audits
and hearings, independent contractor matters, discrimination charges, Employee
Classification Act complaints, employee termination issues, and wage & hour
issues (including exempt/non-exempt status for overtime, deductions from wages,
and state and federal wage claims). Nancy Joerg effectively counsels and advises
clients concerning preventive efforts such as the preparation and review of
severance and release agreements, independent contractor owner-operator
agreements, independent contractor-based manuals and websites, employee
handbooks and personnel policies, anti-harassment training, sex harassment
investigations, and the development of strategies to help ensure exemptions from
overtime.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              606 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Pakistan: "Stop killing our Christian brothers"

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, March 18 -- Horror and anger dominated protests across Pakistan on
Monday, as members of the Christian community took to the streets in Faisalabad,
Lahore, Gujranwala and other urban centers following Sunday's Taliban attack on
two churches.

The protests turned violent in Lahore when demonstrators clashed at different
points during the day with dozens of baton-wielding policemen. One protester was
killed while several were injured when a car hit them at Ferozpur Road.

People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn suicide
bombings which took place outside two churches in Lahore, in Peshawar.

People protest holding placards which asks for peace in Pakistan.

Policemen carry bamboo sticks during a protest by Christians mourners in Lahore.

Christians chant slogans during demonstration to condemn the suicide bombing
attack on two churches.

People from the Christian community attend a protest, to condemn the suicide
bombings.

Members of the Pakistani Christian community chant slogans during a protest
rally in Peshawar.

People from the Christian community attend a protest to condemn suicide bombings

Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.

Christians pray for victims of suicide bombings that struck two churches the day
before, in Lahore.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              607 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 30, 2015 Friday
                                Ontario Edition

JUSTICE;
More than 100 Egyptian women rally to denounce killing of female protester

BYLINE: CAIRO, Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 253 words


Dozens of Egyptian women rallied Thursday to protest the killing of a female
protester during a peaceful protest last week, accusing the police of shooting
her and demanding her killers be brought to justice.

The Thursday protest was the first public rally against the slaying of
32-year-old activist and mother Shaimaa el-Sabbagh. It followed a storm of
criticism of police tactics and of the 2013 protest law that criminalized
unauthorized protests, empowering police to deny permits or use force to
disperse them.

Since the ouster of Islamist president Mohamed Morsi in 2013 after mass protests
against him, authorities have cracked down on critics. Thousands have been
imprisoned on charges of violating the protest law, while hundreds have been
killed in the violent dispersal of rallies.

The organizers of Thursday's rally defied the protest law by not seeking
permission from authorities. The police were out in force, but the
demonstration, attended by more than 100 women, ended peacefully.

Ms. el-Sabbagh was killed Saturday, on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the
uprising that forced Hosni Mubarak to step down. She and other protesters had
demanded policemen be tried for killing demonstrators.

The protest Thursday took place at the square where she was killed. Images of
Ms. el-Sabbagh, held up by a fellow protester, with blood running down her face,
have been widely circulated.

Medical reports said birdshot fired at close range pierced Ms. el-Sabbagh's
lungs and heart.

Officials deny police killed her.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              608 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Wexford People (Ireland)

                                January 20, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Protests inside county hall are banned after heated debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 577 words


THERE was uproar in the council chamber last week after a pre-planned and
sanctioned protest took place in the lobby of Wexford County Council.

The protest which was organised by the Right2Water group saw a small group of
people protesting against domestic water charges inside county buildings.

Cllr Robbie Ireton said while he understood permission had been granted for the
protest but said 'I would have major issues that such meetings or protest were
allowed to happen in the council.

He said there was no problem with people voicing their concerns about Irish
Water 'but are they afraid to do it on their own without a mob behind them?'
Cllr Malcolm Byrne said he believed in the right to protest but said he didn't
believe it should be in county buildings as it 'disrupts people'.

County secretary Pat Collins said an agreement had been reached prior to the
protest about its location and the maximum people allowed.

He said because of the width of the council doors it would be necessary to have
the guards stopping people from entering other than that noting 'it's a very
wide building'.

Cllr Michael Sheehan didn't see a problem with the protest. 'They were
conducting themselves, what's the big deal?' while Cllr Deirdre Wadding who had
been involved in the protest said 'it's a good thing for people to come in and
express their feelings'.

Cllr Byrne said his fear was that it would 'set a precedent' adding that people
attending the council 'had been disrupted and the staff are also entitled to go
about their work'.

Cllr Larry O'Brien proposed that there should never be another protest within
the building again and said all protests should take place outside.

Cllr Sheehan suggested referring the matter to the protocol committee saying
Cllr O'Brien's proposal 'has a profound effect and needs to be thought out'.

Cllr Wadding said she 'had had a very civilised conversation with Pat (Collins)
and he made it clear that up to 50 people could be accommodated. Had there been
more the protest would have been outside. The place is massive so nobody was
obstructed'.

Cllr John Hegarty said 'nobody is objecting to people coming into the council,
however what we are talking about is an organised protest. If we had clearly
laid out protocol it would be better.' 'I agree with anyone's right to protest',
said Cllr Fergie Kehoe 'and I believe it was carried out correctly so I've no
problem with it.' Cllr Paddy Kavanagh said 'what we are trying to do is get some
rules and regulations for other protests. Once you let a group inside and if you
have to ask them to leave at 5pm or whatever and they refuse that's a problem.
Protests shouldn't happen inside a building.

'We've all had to run the gauntlet of protests in the past but they've been
outside.' CEO of Wexford County Council Tom Enright said 'my duty of care is to
the staff and customers. I don't think it's appropriate to protest inside the
building itself. It's important to have some controls over what's happening.

'We have to ensure we have a welcoming environment and we need to be careful
what type of message we are sending.' Cllr Wadding said any protest has always
been carried out with goodwill but she said if protests were banned inside the
building the council will lose goodwill.

In the end the majority of members voted in favour of banning protests inside
the building and referring the matter to the protocol committee to set up
guidelines for any further protests within that framework.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WXP


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              609 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday
                               Bangalore Edition

No police nod, but KoL will be held

SECTION: THE TIMES OF INDIA

LENGTH: 334 words


Calling the Bengaluru police decision not allow the Kiss of Love (KoL) campaign
against moral policing undemocratic, the organizers have decided to go ahead
with the protest.

"We refuse to be moral-policed about how we should carry out our protest against
moral policing. Denying us permission citing the mode and name of the protest is
questioning our right to pro

test," said a statement released by the campaigners to media.

"We are moving forward with the protest, and expect every single person who
would like to express his solidarity with voices against moral policing to
gather there with us," the organizers said. They had sought permission to hold
the protest near Town Hall. They said they have been given no letter stating the
reasons for refusal of permission. Terming "baseless" the claim of the police
commissioner that details of the protest were not provided to police, they said
details about the time, date and venue were given well in advance.

They pointed out that one of the grounds for denial of permission was that Kiss
of Love sounds sensational. Kiss of Love protests have taken place in Kochi,
IIT-Bombay, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Puducherry, Delhi and Chennai.

"We refuse to the change of name of the movement. In this democratic country,
it's our right to choose the mode and form of protest and, most importantly, the
name of the protest as long as it falls within the boundaries of our
Constitution and law," the campaigners said.

The protest is against moral policing and cultural fascism, they said."We
strongly believe that there is nothing obscene in this form of protest and would
like to keep in mind the judgments passed by the Honorable Supreme Court and the
Delhi High Court on cases pertaining to public display of affection.

"As Kiss of Love is a movement formed through a Facebook collective, and has
been organized by a group of volunteers, a single person cannot take
responsibility for the protest. We are willing and ready to take responsibility
as a group," they said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

War's rumblings may fuel the protest song

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. B017

LENGTH: 417  words


War's rumblings may fuel the protest song 'W ar! What is it good for? Absolutely
nothing! Say it again!" sang The Temptations in 1970, in protest against the
Vietnam War. It's 40 years later and war is knocking on our door again, but the
only musical light I can hear at the end of this ridiculously dark political
tunnel we're in is the thought that an impending World War III might inspire a
new wave of fired-up protest music.

The Vietnam War was the first real inspiration for a generation of protest
singers, and the mid- 1960s "new left" folk music is perhaps the most commonly
associated with protest songs, particularly the work of Bob Dylan.

Across the pond, the '70s brought punk and another wave of protest singers, most
notably Joe Strummer, whose passionate anti-racist ideals and left wing ideology
found its voice in the music of The Clash. In the '80s, British musicians had
Maggie Thatcher to protest against, in a decade that also saw a wave of songs
protesting the Cold War. In War Song, by Culture Club, Boy George sang, "War is
stupid and people are stupid", a great idea tainted by terrible lyrics.

Bob Marley's reggae protest songs like Redemption Song (also recorded later by
Joe Strummer and Johnny Cash), and John Lennon's gentle classics Imagine and
Give Peace a Chance proved that protest music doesn't have to shout to get its
point across.

War isn't necessary for a good protest song - just ask Bono or Bob Geldof. List
any aspect of social change - human rights, animal rights, feminism,
environmentalism - and a song has been written about it, whether there's a war
on or not.

War, dodgy governments, these are things that can galvanise a population and
give songwriters something to sink their teeth into.

Hip-hop in particular thrives in an oppressive, right-wing political
environment, its voice fortified by a common enemy. In the US, hip-hop has been
galvanised by the civil rights movement, with Public Enemy releasing Fight the
Power in 1989.

Tupac, the son of a Black Panther, wrote his own call to arms, Soulja's Revenge,
in 1992, and closer to home, remember 77% by The Herd? Lyrics like "Captain Cook
was the very first queue jumper/It was immigrant labour that made Australia
plumper" are unfortunately still relevant more than 10 years later. Back then
they were railing against John Howard. Now we need musicians to critique our
latest military commitments. There is a light that never goes out, and it's
music. You can try tomove us on, but you can't silence us.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


       Copyright 2014 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              611 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                            February 07, 2014 Friday
                                   E2 Edition

Nation gripped by protests

BYLINE:  Caryn Dolley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 231 words


A COUNTRYWIDE surge in violent protests as elections loom has claimed nine
lives, allegedly at the hands of police, in five weeks.

This death toll equals the number of people killed during protests last year,
according to statistics from the South African Institute of Race |Relations.

There are at least five protests a day, says the Institute for Security Studies.

This week, a number of protests erupted. The East London city hall was
petrol-bombed in one flare-up, and in another a man was shot dead |in Sebokeng,
south-east of Johannesburg.

Yesterday, in the Western Cape there were protests in Sir Lowry's Pass Village -
where roads were closed and journalists injured and robbed - and in Kuyasa in
Khayelitsha.

These protests come days after President Jacob Zuma called on the public to act
within the law and police to exercise restraint.

While no one has been killed during Western Cape protests this year, SA Race
Relations Institute figures show there have been four deaths in North West,
three in Limpopo and two in Gauteng.

Police ministry spokesman Zweli Mnisi told the Cape Times: "We are concerned,
not only from the viewpoint that police might have shot (protesters). Any loss
of life at a public protest is unacceptable."

He said the police respected the right of people to protest, but expected them
to do so within the law.

"What we're seeing of late is criminality, police being

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              612 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                           February 6, 2014 Thursday

City protest hits services

BYLINE: Zipo-zenkosi Ncokazi

SECTION: LABOUR

LENGTH: 304 words


By
 Metro Desk
 SERVICE delivery has taken a knock in the past four days of municipal protest
action.
 Last Friday more than 3000 South African Municipal Workers' Union (Samwu)
members downed tools and marched to the East London City Hall to demand payment
of a 14th cheque.


 Vincent Ratepayers' Association chairman Xolani Tyobeka said since the protest
started, no refuse has been collected.
 "Even before the protest this was a problem; I don't even remember the last
time BCM provided us with the refuse bags. It has been worse since the protest,
with garbage bags lying all over the streets. So far that is the only service
that has been affected. We'll see as the protest progresses," said Tyobeka.
 Last week the Daily Dispatch reported that BCM spokesman Thandy Matebese had
raised concern the action would affect waste management and CBD street cleaning.

 BCM spokesman Keith Ngesi said ratepayers had also been unable to pay municipal
accounts as they were turned away by protesters and employees were locked inside
the building.
 Colin Cockcroft, chairman of the Nahoon Ratepayers' Association, said it was
hard to believe municipal workers were demanding a 14th cheque.
 "We've had problems with service delivery for a long time. You have to pester
the metro in order to get any service delivery, using your airtime.
 "In my street, the water mains have been leaking since last week [before the
protest] and water is now at the bottom of the street.
 "The frustrating part is that we will be expected to pay for this water, which
is not fair. Refuse collection is never on time, protest or no protest."
 Malcolm Symons from Beacon Bay said there was "a lot of mess" since the protest
started.
 "Most streets are lined with piles of rubbish and most of it has been ripped
open by dogs," he said. - ziphon@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              613 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                           October 26, 2013 Saturday

Fresh 'anti-coup' protests at Azhar University

LENGTH: 281 words


- Pro-democracy protests have rocked several universities throughout the country
since the academic year began in September. Morsi CAIRO (AA) - Pro-democracy
students resumed their protests at Al-Azhar University on Saturday against the
military ouster of President Mohamed as the university teaching staff called for
using the state of emergency to prevent the demonstrations.

Students protested on al-Darasa campus, east of Cairo, amid chants against Grand
Imam of Al-Azhar Ahmed al-Tayeb, who supported Morsi's overthrow. coup Protest
organizers vowed "a big surprise" on Monday as part of what they called
"uprising of Al-Azhar students" to bring down the and release their detained
classmates. Meanwhile, the University Teaching Club called for enforcing Egypt's
state of emergency with the aim of stopping the protests. The authorities
imposed the state of emergency on August 14 following the violent dispersal of
two sit-ins in support of the ousted president. The law allows the authorities
to ban protests and arrest violators. "Preventing protests has become an urgent
issue now," said Hussein Uweida, the head of al-Azhar University's Teaching
Staff Club. "The situation has become critical." Pro-democracy protests have
rocked several universities throughout the country since the academic year began
in September. The most violent student protests have been witnessed at Al-Azhar
University, where the academic year began earlier last week after having been
postponed by almost one month. Egypt Morsi has remained in a state of turmoil
since elected President Mohamed was removed from power by the military on July
3. By Sobhi Mujahid - Anadolu Agency englishnews@aa.com.tr

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2013 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              614 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 11, 2013 Friday

Group to stage protest for religion, government separation

BYLINE: Matt Bufano, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


Oct. 11--A protest group wants a clearer separation between religion and
Wilkes-Barre city government.

On Saturday, members of the group are hitting the streets with a banner reading,
"Nothing Fails Like Prayer" to get their message across.

"We think our leaders should fix this world we're living in instead of yearning
for another one," the co-organizer of the protest, Justin Vacula, said.

Vacula and members of the NEPA Freethought Society, a local group of atheists,
agnostics and secularists, will stage a peaceful protest at noon Saturday on
North Street, near the Our Lady of Fatima grotto.

Vacula said the protest is intended to spark conversation and fight the overlap
between religion and government. The organization is not looking to stir up
tension, he said.

In a press release announcing the event, Vacula focused on members of the
Wilkes-Barre city council who begin meetings with prayer, which he says is
"inappropriate and potentially illegal."

"We don't think prayer will answer real-world (problems)," Vacula said.
Government-led prayer, he said, has not resolved poverty, unemployment and other
issues in Wilkes-Barre.

About 10 protesters are expected to join Vacula. He encourages the public to
join in.

"Every person has inherent dignity and should be treated with respect, whether
or not they share our beliefs," Diocese of Scranton spokesperson Bill Genello
said in an email Thursday. "We also believe that the Church has the right and
the duty to offer its voice to the discussion of public policy issues to ensure
that the welfare of all is protected."

Genello also said that any discourse Saturday should be "conducted in a
respectful manner."

This will not be the first time the NEPA Freethought Society has brought out the
"Nothing Fails Like Prayer" banner, as earlier this year, it was displayed on
Public Square in Wilkes-Barre.

"I think this will be the perfect place for that banner," Vacula said.

mbufano@citizensvoice.com

570-821-2056, @CVBufano

___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131011-YC-Group-to-stage-protest
-for-religion-government-separation-1011-20131011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2013 The Citizens' Voice


                              615 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday

Turkish academics react to international media over Taksim protests

LENGTH: 412 words


Long-lasting live broadcasts of Taksim protests in international media cause
wrong perception of Turkey, say Turkish academicians ANKARA (AA) - Turkish
academics reacted to international media over Taksim protests as they broadcast
live the protests in Turkey's Istanbul for long hours creating wrong perceptions
as if the life in Turkey had been completely destroyed.  Speaking to Anadolu
Agency, Prof. Dr. Zakir Avsar from Gazi University said it was the wrong
attitudes of traditional media in Turkey which caused the profound interest of
international media in Taksim protests.  Avsar said Turkish media could not
inform the people on Taksim protests on time due to self-censorship and thus
leading to disinformation on social media. "There is an extraordinary interest
here in Taksim protest beyond news reporting," said Avsar "which shows the
attitude against Turkey's stability."

Avsar expressed his wish for international media to handle the issues
objectively and correctly.  Touching on the G-8 protests in London, Avsar said,
"It is impossible to broadcast anything that is not complying with England's
internal or external benefits" suggesting Turkey to follow suit.  Assoc. Prof.
Dr. Mehmet Akif Okur from Gazi University said "We can see that certain world
wide known media corporations turn their broadcasting policy into an anti-Turkey
campaign." Evaluating on EU's comments on Taksim protests, Okur said "If we have
a look at the statements of EU, we can clearly see that those countries who are
against Turley's membership in EU are making use of Taksim protests to support
their own arguments." Okur also pointed out there might be some efforts of
screening the big scandals around the world  by exaggerating Taksim protests in
Turkey. "It is unacceptable for the international media to prevent people from
getting information on G-8 protests while turning the protests in Taksim into a
smear campaign" said Okur criticising the double standards of international
media.  Focusing on the same issue, Assoc. Prof. Dr. Mustafa Seker said,
"Western world have always had double standards in reporting the events in the
eastern world including Turkey. They exaggerate the tiny events in the east
while overshadowing the similar problems in their own countries." Seker stated
the western world were more interested in Turkey since Turkey was growing each
day being a model country in the region, as well as a candidate for EU
membership. englishnews@aa.com.tr

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2013 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              616 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                              June 10, 2013 Monday

Russian opposition to ignite wave of protests

LENGTH: 278 words


"Freedom for Bolotnaya prisoners" will be the main slogan of June 12 Russia Day
protests in Moscow on Wednesday ANKARA   protests Russian youth,  leading the
two-years long against Vladimir Putin, failed to guarantee the participation of
adequate amount of people, will try to convey a strong message to the disputed
leader on Wednesday through organizing via social media. Russia Protests,
participated by wide-rage segments in Russia, as well as other parts of the
world, have been going on since October 4 elections, won by Putin's party United
by 64 percent.

However they started to lose ground in time. Now the civil society organizations
are working for raising media interest on the issue. News style protest leaders
protests. Activist lawyer Alelsey Navalniy, "Leftist Front" leader Sergey
Udaltsov, young politician Ilya Yasin and TV star Kseniya Sobcak are among the
famous young leaders of the Their common point is to emerge on political scene
via the protests, especially through using the social media. Traditional
opposition figures protests. protests Besides youth and civil society figures,
ultra natonal Vladimir Jirinovski's Liberal Democratic Party and Gennadiy
Zyuganov's Communist Party take place in the Disputes among the opposition
groups were one of the reasons for the recent to lose ground. Marching for
"Freedom for Bolotnaya prisoners" Russia protests "Freedom for Bolotnaya
prisoners" will be the main slogan of June 12 Day in Moscow on Wednesday. The
demonstrators will demand the release of the detainees jailed after May 6 riots
at Bolotnaya Square, Moscow. During Bolotnaya events, 80 injured, while hundreds
of protestors were detaineed.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2013 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              617 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

Loyalist group calls end to roadblocks

BYLINE: John Manley, Political Reporter and Allison Morris

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 418 words


MASS loyalist roadblocks are due to stop after a key protest group has said it
would only take part in white-line demonstrations.

The Ulster People's Forum (UPF) announced last night that its members had made
the "positive step" to protest without blocking roads.

However, the group said it would hold protests at monthly council meetings
across the north.

Loyalists have held widespread protests, some of them violent, following Belfast
City Council's vote on December 3 not to fly the Union flag at the city hall
every day.

The UPF, chaired by Jamie Bryson, said changes in strategy were agreed on
Saturday.

But it stressed it did not speak for all protesters and would back those wanting
to protest "in a non-violent manner", suggesting that some roadblocks would
continue.

Two protests are expected to go ahead in east Belfast and Newtownabbey tomorrow
evening.

The UPF said it felt protests "should move to a new phase of white-line protests
and also localised protests outside council offices to coincide with monthly
meetings".

Earlier, there were hints that roadblocks were coming to an end.

For the first time in weeks, loyalist protesters had not made public plans for
widespread road closures tomorrow evening.

Since before Christmas, protests dubbed 'Operation Standstill' have blocked main
routes between 6pm and 8pm on Fridays.

The demonstrations have caused traffic jams and cost traders millions in lost
revenue.

The UPF's announcement came as Secretary of State Theresa Villiers rubbished
unionist claims that British identity and culture in the north were being
diluted.

In her most forthright speech since taking up the post in September, she said
last night that Northern Ireland's place in the United Kingdom was more secure
than ever.

Her comments were a direct challenge to loyalist and unionist claims about an
erosion of Britishness, and particularly UUP leader Mike Nesbitt's assertion
that there has been a steady "chip, chip, chipping away" of identity.

Ms Villiers told young Conservatives in Belfast that she believed Northern
Ireland's place within the UK was "probably stronger now than at any point in
its history".

"So the claim that Britishness is being inexorably and steadily eroded is simply
untrue - a fact illustrated by Belfast City Hall," she said.

"The flag may not fly there every day right now, but it's hard to imagine a
building more steeped in British cultural tradition and symbolism than the
Portland stone Victorian splendour of Belfast City Hall."

Flags crisis P8,9

Editorial P20.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              618 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            January 25, 2013 Friday

BJP's silent protests over Shinde remark;
Protesters demand that PM and Congress prez should tender an apology to nation &
remove Shinde from post

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 249  words


Protesting against Union Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde's accusation that BJP
and RSS are running terror training camps, party workers and leaders held silent
protest-cum-sit-in at 11 places in Indore on Thursday Protests were organized at
Tori Corner, Patnipura, Mhow Naka, Rajbada and Bangali Chauraha where BJP
workers led by MLA Sudarshan Gupta, city BJP president Shankar Lalwani and
spokesman Umesh Sharma carried banners condemning Shinde's remark.

Similar protests were also held at villages in Mhow and Rau mandals of the
party, a spokesman said.

The protesters demanded that the Prime Minister and the Congress president
tender an apology to the nation and remove Shinde from the post, Lalwani told
reporters after the end of the sit-in.  Addressing the protest by Devi Ahilya
mandal, Lalwani said that Congress was involved in politics of separatism and
projecting Hindus as terrorists. This is highly condemnable.

He added that saffron organizations signified country's resilience against
invasions and Indian culture.

MLA Sudarshan Gupta led the protests in assembly constituency no 1 while the
demonstration in assembly constituency no 2 was led by mayor Krishnamurari
Moghe. ex-mayor Umashashi Sharma led the protest in Rau constituency.

The protests started at 9.30 am and continued till afternoon.  The protesters
were not talking to each other as part of silent protest. They communicated in
sign language. Senior party leaders also registered presence at all the protest
sites.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              619 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            January 13, 2013 Sunday

Protests against Jan 10 attacks continue

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Jan. 13 -- The protests against the targeted killing of Shias in Quetta
continued in the city with the massive protest outside the Governor's House and
a sit-in, candlelight vigil and a protest at Liberty Roundabout on Saturday.

Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslemin (MWM) and Imamia Students Organisation (ISO) held a
protest and sit-in outside the Governor House's whereas civil society
organisations held a separate protest, sit-in and candlelight vigil at Liberty
Roundabout to show solidarity with the families of the victims.

Hundreds of people, including children and women, shouted slogans against
terrorism, extremism and the Balochistan government, and demanded the
authorities stop Shia genocide in Pakistan. The protesters were carrying
placards inscribed with slogans like 'Stop Shia killings', 'We are also humans',
'Stop Hazara genocide', 'Stop operation in Balochistan' and 'We want justice'.

Saeeda Deep of the Institute of Peace and Secular Studies (IPSS), renowned
actress Nadia Jamil and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf leader Abrarul Haq also joined
the sit-in at the Liberty Roundabout.

Speaking on the occasion, Saeeda Deep said that during the past 11 years, the
Hazara community had been a target of systematic racism and sectarian violence.
She said that the Hazaras were peaceful and law-abiding citizens who had come
under a constant threat from militant outfits. "The government, the army and
intelligence agencies have all failed to deal with the menace of terrorism," she
complained.

Saeeda was of the view that it was the people's ethical obligation as humans to
raise their voice for the defence of the defenceless. "If you believe in
humanity and human rights for all; if you hope to see a peaceful, prosperous
Pakistan; if you believe it is criminal, immoral and inhumane to kill innocent
people; you should raise your voice against the injustice."

Talking to Daily Times, Nadia Jamil said that the Shia community had the right
to live in Pakistan like members of any other sect. She condemned the killings
and said that the state and other departments concerned should provide security
to the members of the Shia community and make proper arrangements in order to
prevent such incidents from taking place in the future.

Abrarul Haq demanded the government arrest those involved in the killings. He
said that the security situation in the country was alarming, adding that no
life was safe.

Over outside the Governor's House, Shia scholars, including Allama Mushtaq
Hussain Jaffri, also demanded the government and security authorities provide
cover to the members of Hazara community. They demanded the chief justice of
Pakistan take suo motto action over the killing of Shias across the country.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              620 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            January 13, 2013 Sunday

Protests against Jan 10 attacks continue

BYLINE:  Arsalan Haider

SECTION: Vol. X No. 13

LENGTH: 449  words


The protests against the targeted killing of Shias in Quetta continued in the
city with the massive protest outside the Governor's House and a sit-in,
candlelight vigil and a protest at Liberty Roundabout on Saturday.

Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslemin (MWM) and Imamia Students Organisation (ISO) held a
protest and sit-in outside the Governor House's whereas civil society
organisations held a separate protest, sit-in and candlelight vigil at Liberty
Roundabout to show solidarity with the families of the victims.

Hundreds of people, including children and women, shouted slogans against
terrorism, extremism and the Balochistan government, and demanded the
authorities stop Shia genocide in Pakistan. The protesters were carrying
placards inscribed with slogans like 'Stop Shia killings', 'We are also humans',
'Stop Hazara genocide', 'Stop operation in Balochistan' and 'We want justice'.

Saeeda Deep of the Institute of Peace and Secular Studies (IPSS), renowned
actress Nadia Jamil and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf leader Abrarul Haq also joined
the sit-in at the Liberty Roundabout.

Speaking on the occasion, Saeeda Deep said that during the past 11 years, the
Hazara community had been a target of systematic racism and sectarian violence.
She said that the Hazaras were peaceful and law-abiding citizens who had come
under a constant threat from militant outfits. "The government, the army and
intelligence agencies have all failed to deal with the menace of terrorism," she
complained.

Saeeda was of the view that it was the people's ethical obligation as humans to
raise their voice for the defence of the defenceless. "If you believe in
humanity and human rights for all; if you hope to see a peaceful, prosperous
Pakistan; if you believe it is criminal, immoral and inhumane to kill innocent
people; you should raise your voice against the injustice."

Talking to Daily Times, Nadia Jamil said that the Shia community had the right
to live in Pakistan like members of any other sect. She condemned the killings
and said that the state and other departments concerned should provide security
to the members of the Shia community and make proper arrangements in order to
prevent such incidents from taking place in the future.

Abrarul Haq demanded the government arrest those involved in the killings. He
said that the security situation in the country was alarming, adding that no
life was safe.

Over outside the Governor's House, Shia scholars, including Allama Mushtaq
Hussain Jaffri, also demanded the government and security authorities provide
cover to the members of Hazara community. They demanded the chief justice of
Pakistan take suo motto action over the killing of Shias across the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2013 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              621 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 21, 2012 Friday

BRIEF: Students start protest march to presidential palace in Tbilisi

BYLINE: N. Kirtschalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 158 words


Sept. 21--TBILISI, Georgia -- Students started "Say no to violence" protest
march in the center of Tbilisi. Several thousand of students marched along the
central Rustaveli avenue towards Georgian president's residence.

The traffic on the avenue was blocked.

Students declared that their protest is free of political context and is
directed against violence in prisons. However, members of various opposition
parties joined the action.

The youth of ruling party also joined the social revolt on the case of tortures.

The protest participants called to punishment of all those responsible for the
incident.

Protest actions took place around Georgia starting September 18 due to prisoner
torture incidents, which were shown by opposition channels.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120921-1AZ-BRF-Students-start-protest
-march-to-presidential-palace-in-Tbilisi-0921-20120921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              622 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Cartoon on Prophet Muhammad fanned Muslims' anger around world - Iran TV

LENGTH: 214 words


The ongoing protests and reactions over the anti-Islam movie "Innocence of
Muslims" and publication of cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad have been the
dominant theme in the Iranian broadcast media this morning.

In its report on the protests against the anti-Islam film, the rolling news
network IRINN's 0430 gmt bulletin said that "protests against US-Zionists plot
continue" and that US flags were burnt in Pakistan in a protest demonstration.
The reports added that protests have also been held in Afghanistan, Sri Lanka,
Norway and Italy. IRINN's report also referred to the publication of cartoons of
Prophet Muhammad by French magazine Charlie Hebdo and said the cartoons have
"again fanned the flames of Muslims' anger around the world".

The Press TV's bulletins led with reports about protests and reaction over the
cartoons published in the French magazine. Its 0200 gmt bulletin said
"condemnations continue to pour in against insulting cartoon" and added that
French Muslims express anger over publication of demeaning cartoon of Prophet
Muhammad. The report underlined that the French authorities have defended the
publication of the cartoon and have banned protest demonstrations against it.

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0430gmt 20 Sep
12

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              623 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 13, 2012 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 326

LENGTH: 257  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
residents of village Bahawal Zaunr Tando Jam including Syed Imtiaz Shah and
others staged a protest demonstration against the occupation of their
agricultural lands. A woman namely Zahida w/o Muhammad Piryal Mallah, resident
of Kotri recorded a protest demonstration for the recovery of her missing
brother Khadim Hussain.

The heirs of Late Zeeshan Qureshi, who was killed in Pretabad one month ago,
staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of his killers. Laborers and
retired employees of different factories led by Abdul Shakoor and Abdul Rasheed
recorded a protest demonstration against the non-payment of pensions and other
benefits to them. Social worker Syed Haider Shah staged a protest demonstration
against the unemployment and inflation. Leaders of the SUTA and SUWA led by
Ghulam Nabi Bhalai, Azhar Shah and others protested against the attack on Irfana
Mallah and Amar Sindhu.

The activists of the Sindh Peoples' Youth Taluka Rural Hyderabad led by Fida
Hussain Mughal and others recorded a protest demonstration against Sindh
Minister for Fisheries Zahid Ali Bhurgari. The members of the Highway Employees'
Union staged a protest demonstration for the provision of jobs to their children
on the employees' quota. On the other hand, the Sindh Hari Committee led by
Comrade Azhar Jatoi and others continued their hunger strike at Hyder Chowk
against the Zulfikarabad Project.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              624 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                              Business Day Edition

Western Cape hit hardest by service-delivery protests

BYLINE: SETUMO STONE

SECTION: PROD:PAGE

LENGTH: 442  words


Western Cape hit hardest by service-delivery protests

SA EXPERIENCED a phenomenal rise in service-delivery protests last month, with
the Western Cape being the most protest-afflicted province, according to the
Municipal IQ's Hotspots Monitor, which records major protests staged against
local government.

The report indicates that the number of service delivery protests this year is
likely to eclipse the peaks of 2009 and 2010, with last month recording more
protests than any month since 2004.

Last weekend five violent protests were reported in Siyahlala informal
settlement in Philippi near Gugulethu, Cape Town, with residents demanding that
electricity be installed in their shacks.

Municipal IQ's Karen Heese said that protests last month included demands for
housing in Cape Town to a cluster of North West protests for tarred roads. & The
worrying theme was that they were violent and demonstrated high levels of
frustration,& said Ms Heese.

This comes as critics have cautioned that the African National Congress' (ANC's)
latest march against a painting depicting President Jacob Zuma's genitals might
set a precedent that could overwhelm the party and government.

However, the Democratic Alliance-led government in the Western Cape seems to be
at the receiving end of the protest action, despite reports of widespread
dissatisfaction with the performance of the ANC across the country.

According to the Hotspot Monitor, the ANC-led government in Gauteng province saw
a fall in protest activity, which Municipal IQ MD Kevin Allen attributed to a &
policing solution& quot;A policing solution to contain violence and destruction
of property is certainly relevant, but it is important for local government,
especially councillors, to acknowledge protests (without justifying violence)
and to be seen to be acting on the valid grievances of protestors,& he said.

Halfway through this year, 67 major protests were recorded, with the highest
record standing at 111 in 2010 - which were mostly linked to inter- and
intra-party political contestation ahead of the local government elections last
year.

Political analyst Steven Friedman said while the Municipal IQ study relied on
media reports, the actual numbers could be higher than reported.

& What we know is that we continue to have a high level of protests since 2004,
mostly because there is a widespread feeling among people in townships and
informal settlements that local government workers do not listen.& Spokesman for
Western Cape Premier Zak Mbhele said the provincial government was continuously
trying to engage communities over developments but public participation remained
low.

stones@bdfm.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 2, 2012 Saturday

Is it right to disrupt normal life to protest hike in prices?

SECTION: GOA

LENGTH: 279 words


I believe that we need to protest peacefully and not by causing inconvenience to
people and damaging public property. On the day of the bandh, thousands of
people were inconvenienced as they missed their flights, trains and even their
dates with exams, doctors etc. Hordes of tourists were left stranded, above all
members of the working class were deprived of their wages for the day.

Victor Fernandes

financial consultant, Siolim

Is it right for the government to destroy the common man's life with dodgy
implementation of policies and corruption to concentrate wealth in a few hands
and get away scot free? I am not a fan of violence but something has to be done
to make our leaders understand their rubbish wont be tolerated.

Rohit Rebello

Marketing, Verna

No, it is not right. Only if people are supporting the protest then it is
perfectly fine. Disrupting people's life and forcing them to take part in the
protest is like violating their fundamental right to liberty. Besides, protests
and bandhs badly affect the daily wage workers, are politically motivated and
not beneficial to the people. Several other ways can be adopted to protest
against price rise.

Sneha Sabnis

Student, Sanquelim

Its senseless to disrupt normal life in protest against any government move,
including a hike in prices. There are other ways like holding demonstrations in
certain areas to draw the attention of the government to grievances. Apart from
severely inconveniencing people, such protests also affect the poorer sections
of society very badly. Such disruptions can also endanger lives if the protests
turn violent.

Danuska Da Gama

media professional, Saligao

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              626 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Muskogee Phoenix (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday

Cherokee protest planned

BYLINE: D.E. Smoot, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


Nov. 05--A group of Cherokee citizens plan to protest the attendance of a
federal official during the ceremonial inauguration of the tribe's new principal
chief.

A protest organizer said U.S. Indian Affairs Secretary Larry Echo Hawk has
ignored the tribe's sovereign rights and "unlawfully divided the Cherokee
Nation."

"We have to let Echo Hawk know that Cherokees will stand up for our sovereignty
and our treaty rights," said Tom Lewis, a protest organizer. "He has threatened
our Constitution, saying the vote of our people means nothing."

Lewis cited two specific examples that form the basis of the group's complaints
against Echo Hawk. The first was the decision to place land within the Cherokee
Nation into trust for another tribe. The second was federal intervention in the
dispute regarding freedmen's citizenship rights.

Members of the group planning to protest Echo Hawk's visit say they represent a
movement within the Cherokee Nation promoting tribal sovereignty and the tribe's
treaty rights.

Lewis questioned Echo Hawk's intentions, describing the federal official as "a
foe of freedom, liberty and justice."

While the group plans to stage its protest during Principal Chief John Baker's
inauguration, Lewis made it clear Sunday's protest targets Echo Hawk's visit.

"Chief Baker is our duly elected principal chief and the protest is in support
of him, and all Cherokee elected officials," Lewis said. "We are protesting at
the inauguration simply because that is the only place we know he will be, and
we have to send him a message."

Baker's inauguration is scheduled to take place at 2 p.m. Sunday at The Place
Where They Play on the campus of Sequoyah High School.

Reach D.E. Smoot at (918) 684-2901 or dsmoot@

muskogeephoenix.com.

___ (c)2011 the Muskogee Phoenix (Muskogee, Okla.) Visit the Muskogee Phoenix
(Muskogee, Okla.) at muskogeephoenix.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111105-XK-Cherokee-protest-planned-1105-20111105

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XK


                        Copyright 2011 Muskogee Phoenix


                              627 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Adnkronos International, Rome

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 19, 2011 Monday

Syria: '2,700 dead' during crackdown on protests, UN says

BYLINE: Adnkronos International, Rome

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 164 words


Sept. 19--DAMASCUS -- Two thousand-seven hundred people have died in Syria since
anti-government protests began in March,  including dozens of children,
according to Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights Kyung-wha Kang.

"As of today, 2,700 people, including at least 100 children, have been killed by
military and security forces since mass protests erupted in mid-March."

"Let me conclude by emphasizing the importance of holding perpetrators of crimes
against humanity accountable. The office has found that such crimes may have
been committed in Syria," she said, citing an August UN report.

Syrian rights activists say five people died on Monday during raids on
anti-government protesters in the central Homs province.

The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights say witnesses heard
shooting during raids Monday in the city of Houla.

___ (c)2011 Adnkronos International (Rome) Visit Adnkronos International (Rome)
at www.adnkronos.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110919-YR-Syria-2700-dead-during-crackdown-on-protests
-UN-says-20110919

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YR


                                 Copyright 2011


                              628 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Traders to protest against 4-day gas cut

SECTION: Vol. 4 No. 111

LENGTH: 263  words


All Pakistan Textile Processing Mills Association, Ferozepur Road Industrial
Association, Shahdra Industrial Association, Lahore Township Industrial
Association, Sheikhupura Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Pakistan Industrial and
Traders Associations Front (PIAF) and other industrial Associations have decided
to launch a series of protests from today against the 4-day gas load shedding.

In the first phase, a strong protest would be staged on November 23rd at
Shahdra. The protest rally would be started from Zeno Textile Mills, Bara Dari,
Farrukhabad, Shahdra and reach Main road where thousands industrialists and
industrial workers would join the protest rally. The LCCI former President Mian
Anjum Nisar, Central Chairman of Processing Association Maqsood Ahmad Butt and
leaders of PIAF would lead the protest.

While addressing the Organising Committee of protest rally, Mian Anjum Nisar
lamented that wrong government policies and mismanaged affairs, the industry had
almost collapsed. He said had right steps been taken well in time, the situation
would have been far better.

He said that sword of unemployment was hanging on the heads of industrial
workers in the wake of non-availability of gas but the government was playing
the role of silent spectator. He said that the industrial area which was hub of
production was presenting a deserted look as a large number of industrial units
had stopped production.

While condemning the discrimination in gas distribution, he said that Punjab was
facing massive gas load shedding. He demanded of the government to stop
favouritism.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              629 of 995 DOCUMENTS



        Russian Financial Control Monitor(RFCM): Business News (English)

                      May 15, 2009 Friday 10:45 AM GMT +3

Less than 25% of Russians ready to take part in mass protests

SECTION: MACROECONOMICS

LENGTH: 149  words


MOSCOW. Less than a quarter of respondents said they were ready to take part in
mass protests (23%) in a survey conducted by the VTsIOM pollster, while 65% said
they did not support such action and 12% had no answer.

When asked whether protest demonstrations were at all possible in their city or
town, 61% of the respondents said "hardly" (up from 59% in March), 29% said
"quite possible" (down from 33% in March), while 10% could not estimate the
probability of public unrest.

Interestingly, while residents of Moscow and St Petersburg rather believe
protests are possible in their cities, the share of those ready to join such
action was the smallest among them, 15%, which is much lower than in midsize
cities and small towns (24%-27%).

On the contrary, the number of those who said they would not take part in any
protest was the highest among residents of Russia's two largest cities, 69%-70%.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RFCM_EN_GENERAL


                      Copyright 2002 - 2009 [#x418][#x410]
«[#x424][#x41a]-[#x41d][#x41e][#x412][#x41e][#x421][#x422][#x418]» / FC Novosti
                                  News Agency
                              All Rights Reserved


                              630 of 995 DOCUMENTS



       Russian Financial Control Monitor(RFCM) : Macroeconomics (English)

                      May 15, 2009 Friday 10:45 AM GMT +3

Less than 25% of Russians ready to take part in mass protests

SECTION: MACROECONOMICS

LENGTH: 149  words


MOSCOW. Less than a quarter of respondents said they were ready to take part in
mass protests (23%) in a survey conducted by the VTsIOM pollster, while 65% said
they did not support such action and 12% had no answer.

When asked whether protest demonstrations were at all possible in their city or
town, 61% of the respondents said "hardly" (up from 59% in March), 29% said
"quite possible" (down from 33% in March), while 10% could not estimate the
probability of public unrest.

Interestingly, while residents of Moscow and St Petersburg rather believe
protests are possible in their cities, the share of those ready to join such
action was the smallest among them, 15%, which is much lower than in midsize
cities and small towns (24%-27%).

On the contrary, the number of those who said they would not take part in any
protest was the highest among residents of Russia's two largest cities, 69%-70%.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RFCM_EN_MACRO


                      Copyright 2002 - 2009 [#x418][#x410]
«[#x424][#x41a]-[#x41d][#x41e][#x412][#x41e][#x421][#x422][#x418]» / FC Novosti
                                  News Agency
                              All Rights Reserved


                              632 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Quay County Sun (Tucumcari, New Mexico)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

County commission form property tax protest board

BYLINE: Thomas Garcia, Quay County Sun, Tucumcari, N.M.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


May 12--Quay County commissioners have formed a board to hear 70 protests
against property tax increases in the county.

The board was formed at the request of Quay County Tax Assessor Janie Murray on
Monday at the regular commission meeting. The board will consist of Sally Baker,
Keith Bowen and alternate Drake Swenson.

"There were 79 total protests against property tax increases from Quay County
residents," Murray said.

Residential properties increased 6 percent while the commercial properties tax
increased from 30 to 100 percent, Murray said. A majority of the protests were
from commercial property owners.

Commercial properties' steep increase is the result of the Property Tax
Department in Santa Fe directing the removal of a 20 percent economic factor for
depreciation that was instituted in the 1980s, officials said.

Murray said nine protests had been resolved but an additional 70 protests were
filed on April 30, which was the last date for filing.

Before any protests are heard by the board, Murray said she will have an
informal hearing with each of the protesters to try and resolve the situation.

If the protests cannot be resolved, then a schedule of hearings will be set for
the appointed board and an official from the Property Tax Department at Santa
Fe, Murray said. The hearings will determine if the increase to the property tax
was justified.

"It could take as much as two days to resolve all of the protests," Murray said.

Also:

--The Commission authorized Quay County Fire Marshal Donald Adams to submit a
County Mutual Aid Agreement to the surrounding counties. The agreement will ask
surrounding counties to send mutual fire aid when requested.

Adams said that in the past the counties have had a verbal mutual aid agreement.
The New Mexico State Fire Marshal is now requesting a hard copy of the
agreement.

To see more of The Quay County Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.qcsunonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Quay County Sun, Tucumcari,
N.M. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090512-QY-County-commission-form-property-tax-protest-board-0512

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QY


                         Copyright 2009 Quay County Sun


                              633 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

Dail pension levy protest today;
Dail Protests

LENGTH: 143 words



HIGHLIGHT: Protests will be held outside the Dail today by public service
workers over the Pensions Levy.


Protests will be held outside the Dail today by public service workers over the
Pensions Levy.

Trade unionists and opposition politicians are expected to address the hour-long
protest.

Members of the CPSU are also planning to stage a one-day national stoppage later
this month in protest at the proposed pension levy.

In addition, the Garda Representative Association (GRA), which represents rank
and file members of the force, is staging a two-hour protest outside Dail
Eireann. The event marks the first time members of the force have held a
demonstration since the so called "Blue Flu" in 1998. The Government hopes the
levy will reduce E1.4 billion from the public sector pay bill in 2009. The
salary-based charge will be calculated on gross pay and will mean a 3pc
contribution for workers on E15,000 up to a maximum 9.6pc for staff earning
E300,000 before tax.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              636 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Beijing protesters confined to pens, activists told to leave; Practice is in
line with Olympic policy as Games' charter prohibits demonstrations

BYLINE: Reuters; Daily Telegraph

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 330  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING -- China is to confine would-be political demonstrators to three "
protest pens" in parks around the city during the Olympics.

The location of the three pens was announced Wednesday by Liu Shaowu, the head
of security for the Games.

The Games are already a lightning rod for protest over issues ranging from
Darfur to Tibet. But Liu would not say whether Chinese would be allowed to
demonstrate in the "protest pens" or if restrictions would be placed on the
causes that demonstrators would be allowed to espouse.

The authorities have warned human rights activists and lawyers to leave the city
while the Games are on.

Designating "protest pens" is in line with practice at past Games because the
International Olympic Committee charter prohibits demonstrations or "political,
religious or racial propaganda" at Olympic venues or sites. But it is
nonetheless a surprise in host China, where Communist leaders frown on public
protests, often viewing them as a threat to stability and its hold on power.

The parks are in the Beijing districts of Fengtai, Haidian and Chaoyang,
spanning three far-flung areas of the sprawling capital. Protests related to the
Beijing Games burst on to the world stage after unrest in Tibet in March led to
anti-Chinese demonstrations and counter-protests along the international leg of
the Olympic torch relay, prompting ugly scenes.

Liu said demonstrators would need prior approval to hold protests, but it was
not clear if police would grant approval for any marches outside of the
dedicated parks. "If they have lawfully applied and the demonstration is
approved, Chinese police can, according to law, protect citizens' rights," he
said.

Liu declined to say whether anyone had applied yet or whether there were certain
causes whose applications would be rejected, deferring such questions to the
Beijing police and municipal government, who he said would handle applications.

Beijing police had no immediate response to a faxed request for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              637 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              June 30, 2006 Friday
                                  City Edition

Protest numbers climbing as cutoff nears

BYLINE: MATT OLBERDING, LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, NE


Total by today's deadline likely will be less than expected.

With the deadline looming, the number of property valuation protests submitted
to the Lancaster County Clerk's Office has skyrocketed this week.

As of 3 p.m. Thursday, Chief Deputy County Clerk Trish Owen said the number of
protests filed stood at about 6,000.

Last Friday, that number stood at about 2,500, meaning more protests have been
submitted in the past four days than in the previous three weeks since valuation
notices came out June 1.

Owen said people still were coming into her office Thursday to pick up protest
forms.

Protests must be received in the County Clerk's office by 4:30 p.m. today or be
postmarked with today's date, unless you're among the approximately 920 or so
who received late notices. Those property owners have 30 days from the date on
their valuation notice.

Despite the late rush, county officials are still optimistic the number of
protests will be well below the 10,000 that was predicted even before the County
Assessor's office released figures showing an average valuation increase of 17.5
percent.

County Board Chairwoman Deb Schorr said it was "very surprising" that protest
numbers have, so far, come in lower than expected.

But she said people likely did research and realized that though their value
might have increased, it was fair and consistent with others' values.

Beyond the headache of dealing with displeased and sometimes angry property
owners, the county has financial reasons to hope for fewer protests.

County Commissioners had budgeted about $700,000 for the protest process, based
on about $70 per protest for 10,000 protests.

Fewer protests also may mean a higher overall valuation on which to base the tax
levy.

For instance, in doing preliminary budget estimates, county Budget and Fiscal
Director Dave Kroeker said he used a worst-case scenario of a $150 million
reduction in property values due to potential protests.

Even with those estimates, the board had proposed lowering its tax levy nearly
10 percent to the lowest level in at least 25 years, though it conceded that
might be difficult.

"Now maybe we can hit that value,"Schorr said.

The city also could benefit from fewer protests.

City Budget Officer Steve Hubka said he estimated a $100 million reduction in
the valuation within city limits for budget planning.

If it's less than that, he said, "It will be to our benefit."

Officials at Lincoln Public Schools, which uses the largest amount of property
tax dollars, could not be reached for comment.

Reach Matt Olberding at 473-2647 or molberding@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              638 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday

Pakistan North-West Frontier Province leader appeals for calm

LENGTH: 280 words


Excerpt from report by Pakistan's PTV World television on 15 February

[Presenter] Strong protest demonstrations are being held today in several
countries against the publication of blasphemous cartoons in certain European
newspapers. [passage omitted]

Protest demonstrations also continue in Pakistan against the publication of
blasphemous cartoons in certain European newspapers. Certain miscreants went on
rampage during protest demonstrations in North-West Frontier Province [NWFP]
today. We have contacted NWFP Chief Minister Akram Khan Durrani to find out more
about the incident:

[Anchor Nasim Tariq] Durrani sahib, what is the situation of law and order
during protest demonstrations in NWFP?

[Durrani] Protest demonstrations are being held in the whole of NWFP today.
Peaceful protest is the right of every individual, and we allow it. However,
certain elements intruded in today's protest demonstrations who did some damage
in certain places. We appeal to the people of NWFP and the country to remain
peaceful and, for God's sake, do not fulfil the purpose of those people who
published these cartoons. Remain peaceful. I, myself, led a rally and appealed
people to remain peaceful, and that was subsequently the case. However, students
of our colleges and schools, who are emotional, were induced by miscreants to
cause damage in certain places, which we are assessing as yet. Through PTV, I
once again appeal to the people of the province and the country to protest
peacefully, as we certainly do. However, damaging anybody's shop or house, or
vehicle is not permitted in our religion.

[Tariq] Thank you, Durrani sahib.

Source: PTV World, Islamabad, in Urdu 0900 gmt 15 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                            October 29, 2001, Monday

Arab leaders plan protest rally today

BYLINE: David Rudge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 273 words


Arab leaders are planning a rally outside the Prime Minister's Office today to
protest the "government's tendentious policies toward the Palestinians in the
occupied territories."

They are also sending a strongly-worded letter to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon
denouncing the alleged massacre in Beit Rima near Ramallah last Wednesday
despite IDF assertions that casualties had been exaggerated and were the result
of clashes with armed men.

A delegation of the Arab leadership is to make a solidarity visit to Palestinian
Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat and senior PA officials this week.

The decisions were taken at an emergency meeting of the secretariat of the Arab
leadership's monitoring committee composed of Arab MKs council heads and
prominent public figures in Yafia near Nazareth on Saturday night. It followed
calls from MKs and other leading figures for protests against the IDF incursion
into PA-controlled areas and the escalation in fighting.

During today's protest the committee will convene to discuss proposals for
further action.

Committee spokesman Abed Inbitawi said the proposals include a general strike of
the Arab community and nationwide demonstrations.

"We view this deliberate escalation in the fighting by the Sharon government
very seriously indeed he said. We are warning that through its tendentious
policies the government is destroying the principle of coexistence between the
two peoples and that it will be responsible for the consequences."

Inbitawi added that the government has no political plan and that there is a
grave danger of an intensification in the fighting.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 The Jerusalem Post


                              640 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        May 3, 2016 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT

Protest planned at UK's largest opencast mine as hundreds expected to enter the
site;
Hundreds of people from protest group Reclaim the Power are expected to occupy
Ffos-y-Fran in Merthyr Tydfil

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


Hundreds of people are expected to enter the UK's largest opencast mine this
morning as part of a protest by the group Reclaim the Power.

Around 400 activists are believed to be taking part in the protest at
Ffos-y-Fran in Merthyr Tydfil as they campaign against the planned expansion of
the mine .

It comes after they set up a protest camp nearby on Saturday in preparation for
entering the mine this morning.

The protest is expected to see around 400 activists from across the UK, together
with local anti-opencast campaigners, enter the mine from around 7.30am.

A spokeswoman for Reclaim the Power said: "Over 400 protesters will dress up in
red boiler suits to form a red line across the mine.

"It will symbolise the red line we are crossing by extracting fossil fuels. We
want to send a strong symbolic signal."

Read more: Hundreds of activists descend on Merthyr Tydfil in attempt to shut
down the UK's largest opencast mine

The spokeswoman added: "It will be a non-violent protest and we will show
respect to the workers in the mine."

Here's the protest camp being set up

Ffos-y-Fran protest camp

On the first day of the protest, more than 200 people pitched their tents at the
Reclaim the Power camp near the mine, setting up compost toilets, four marquees
and a wind turbine.

A shuttle bus ferried protesters from the train station to the camp, while
coaches arrived with activists from as far away as the Netherlands and France.

Protesters say they plan to clean up and leave the camp on May 4.

Green Party leader Natalie Bennett and the party's Wales leader Alice
Hooker-Stroud will visit the mine today to talk to campaigners and voice their
support for the occupation.

Read more: This professor says devastating climate change will be irreversible
unless fossil fuels are abandoned by 2030

Miller Argent is the company behind Ffos-y-Fran.

Speaking last week, the company's managing director Neil Brown said: "Our main
concern is for the safety of our employees, the protesters and the emergency
services.

"Supporting the steel industry, affordable electricity and climate change are
all important issues. What we need is a sensible debate that supports jobs in
Wales. Welsh coal is an important part of this."

WalesOnline iOS app plug (strip) September 2015

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              641 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday

Youth Congress protest Centre's decision to discontinue Indira, Rajiv Gandhi
stamps; lock GPO

BYLINE: Swati Mathur

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 259 words


LUCKNOW: Protesting the Centre's decision to discontinue stamps named after
former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, UP Youth Congress
activities surrounded the General Post Office in Lucknow demanding a reversal of
the order.

During the protests, Youth Congress functionaries locked up the GPO premises,
preventing entry and exit from the building premises. Registering their protest
with the Chief Post Master General, the protestors also said Modi government's
decision to discontinue the stamps showed the government's "divisive and
malicious intent" at maligning the image of two national leaders who had served
the country and laid down their lives for it.

The Youth Congress workers also clashed with the police during the Thursday
afternoon protests. However, no incidents of violence were reported. Heavy
police remained deputed outside the GPO until protests lasted to prevent the
protests from growing violent. President of the UP Youth Congress Central Zone,
Ankit Parihar, said Thursday's protests in Lucknow were symbolic in nature. He
also warned that Youth Congress will continue to oppose the decision, and
intensify protests in case the Centre does not reverse its earlier orders.

The Centre had, in a 2014 order, discontinued Rs 5 stamps issued in the names of
Bharat Ratna former PM Rajiv Gandhi and Indira Gandhi. The government plans,
instead to launch a new series of stamps after Deendayal Upadhyaya, Jayaprakash
Narayan, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Ram Manohar Lohia in the near future.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              642 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             August 31, 2014 Sunday

Pakistan: PTI Karachi to block Shara-e-Faisal today

LENGTH: 416  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Aug. 31 -- In a bid to show its street power, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf
has announced to stage a protest sit-in today on Shara-e-Faisal, a major
boulevard in Karachi.

"We have decided to launch a massive protest tsunami, which if the government
tried to stop, would be itself responsible for untoward consequences. We will
come out in full power tomorrow, come what may", a statement issued by the party
said.

According to sources, PTI core committee, in its meeting held, has finalized
protest demonstrations in major cities including Karachi as an extension to the
anti-government protest demonstration in Islamabad's 'Red Zone' after the party
leader Imran Khan's announcement.

"We will stage mega protest demonstrations in Lahore, Faisalabad, Multan, and
Karachi tomorrow (Saturday)", party leader Imran Khan told his workers staging
anti-government sit-in in front of Parliament House.

Laying out their protest plans, the PTI said in addition to Shara-e-Faisal
Karachi, rallies/sit-ins would be staged in Faisalabad's Zila Council Chowk,
Multan's Nawan Shehr Chowk, and Lahore to start with.

Shara-e-Faisal is one of the main thoroughfares in the metropolis and most of
the national and multinational companies' offices, schools, shopping plazas,
banks, and institutes are close to it.

Thousands of demonstrators led by Khan and Pakistan Awami Tehreek's (PAT) Dr
Tahir-ul-Qadri are camped outside the parliament building in Islamabad demanding
the prime minister step down.

More than a week of government efforts to negotiate an end to the standoff made
little headway, with Khan adamant the Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif must resign.

Khan, who had last night refused to compromise on his foremost demand of Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif's resignation in a meeting with country's powerful army
chief, said he was absolutely incredulous of former's 'assurances'.

"I don't even have an iota of trust in Nawaz Sharif's promises as he has never
been a man of his word", Khan said.

Chairman PTI said now it was a do-or-die struggle for him as there was no
turning back from this point.

"I have made up my mind. I have only two options: 'Independence or death'. There
are no two ways about it", Khan said.

Khan also underscored that he didn't want to give this government any 'breather'
by easing his stance

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              643 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday

PTI to hold huge protest on Aug 14: Imran

LENGTH: 162  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Chairman Pakistan Tehreek-I-Insaf (PTI)
Imran Khan said on Tuesday that a huge protest and sit-in would be held
in the Federal Capital on August 14.


      Addressing a press conference here, Imran Khan said that party
workers from different parts of the country would join the protest in
favour of their demands.
      He said that the PTI would continue its protest until its demands
were met. The party would not reverse back its protest plan and not
succumb to any pressure. He ruled out any chance of postponing the
August 14 protest.
      Imran Khan said that peaceful protest was the democratic right of
PTI and demanded that electoral system should be improved. Only 1970 elections
were held in a free and fair manner, he added.
      Central leader of PTI Shah Mehmood Qureshi said that tempering,
bogus vote casting and unusual interference were reported in the recent general
elections, particularly in 13 constituencies, which was a clear example of
irregularities.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              645 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                             April 28, 2014 Monday

'Protests not always about service delivery'

BYLINE: Siyabonga Mkhwanazi

LENGTH: 418 words


THE government will clamp down on violent protests across the country and warns
that those behind it would face the full might of the law.

Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Lechesa Tsenoli said on
Friday protests took many forms, but the common thread was socio-economic
problems.

He said they would not tolerate the violence that accompanies protests in
different parts of the country.

Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa said recently there were more than 10000 protests
last year alone and 8000 of them were violent. The government has, among other
issues, passed the Dangerous Weapons Act to prevent the use of weapons to attack
non-striking people and damage public and private property.

Tsenoli said in a written reply to a parliamentary question from IFP MP
Muntukaphiwana Zulu while the government welcomed protests, violence was not

acceptable.

"Although 'service delivery protests' is the term used in most reports, the
matter is usually much more complex," Tsenoli said.

"Protests are not always sparked by service delivery issues. Very often the
municipality, the face of government at local level, becomes the

target," the minister said.

There were marchers all over the world and South Africa was no different to
other countries.

Protesters were commonly marching against socio-economic issues and youth

unemployment, he said.

"As part of the action taken, areas that have experienced protests were visited.
During these visits, meetings took place with the leaders of the protests, staff
members of the respective municipalities, as well as leaders of different
organisations in those areas," the minister of cooperative governance and
traditional affairs said.

They went to the areas to address all issues related to the protests including
corruption and demarcation disputes.

Three weeks ago the Cabinet announced that an inter-ministerial task would be
visiting hot spots before the elections.

The government wants to contain areas that could face flare ups during the
elections.

The state had identified a number of areas as the potential source of trouble
and red flagged them.

These areas include KwaMashu in Durban where there have been a spate of killings
among IFP, NFP and ANC councillors and members.

The other township that has been identified was Bekkersdal on the West Rand.

Mthethwa said they would deploy more police in high-risk areas during the
elections.

Low-risk areas would not have the same number of officers on the ground.

siyabongam@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              646 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

BRIEF: Mass protests take place in Turkey

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


March 12--Mass protests broke out across Turkey Tuesday night following the
death of a 14-year-old boy who was wounded in the head during a rally in Taksim
Square in May last year, the Turkish Hurriyyet newspaper wrote on March 12.

Bakir Elvan who remained in a coma almost a year, died on March 11. He was hit
in the head by a tear gas canister.

The largest demonstrations took place in Turkey's commercial center, Istanbul,
and in the capital Ankara. Turkish police dispersed the demonstrators. Thousands
of protesters gathered in front of the Middle East Technical University where a
considerable police presence was noticed.

Protests had been taking place in Turkey for nearly three weeks since the end of
May 2013. Turkish authorities said the protests were anti-government.

Turkish opposition parties accuse the police of using excessive force to
disperse the protestors.

Around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in the protest
during that time, according to figures from the Turkish Interior Ministry.

Nearly 4,000 people were injured, and 4,900 were detained by the authorities.

Translated by S.I.

Edited by C.N.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140312-1AZ-BRF-Mass-protests-take-place-in-Turkey-0312-20140312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              647 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

Nationwide protests being staged against Mastung incident

LENGTH: 152  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Nationwide protests are being staged on Thursday against the Mastung incident,
in which 29 Shia pilgrims were killed.

Majlis-e-Wahdat-e-Muslimeen (MWM) continued protests in which thousands of the
protesters, including women and children, were holding sit-ins in the main
cities of the country, including Karachi, Quetta, Lahore, Islamabad and Multan
against the suicide attack on a bus carrying Shia pilgrims in Mastung that
claimed more than 29 lives.

The protests are being staged at the Faizabad Interchange in the capital city
Islamabad. The protesters also closed the Murree Road and the Kashmir Highway.

Traffic was witnessed very thin due to the protests; hence the office goers
faced trouble.

Security was beefed up in Multan due to the protests where almost all main roads
were closed due to the sit-ins.

Such sit-in protests are also being held in Hyderabad, Sukkur, Dadu, Sehwan and
other cities of Sindh.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              649 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

6 April Movement Founder says new protest law 'unfair'

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 168  words


6 April Movement Founder Ahmed Maher described the newly-issued protest law as
'unfair' and said it 'will be broken.'On Monday, Maher tweeted, "Today, some
people will submit a request to protest before Interior Ministry to demand
dismissal of ministers of defense and interiors. It's their right.""In general,
the unfair protest law will be broken. Any constitution against principles of 25
January revolution will be dropped like what preceded it," he added.Presidency
issued on Sunday law organizing rights of public gatherings and peaceful
protests, which is known in media as the "protest law."It was issued in the
official gazette on 24 November and included 25 articles.Opponents of the law
say that the law effectively bans protests as demonstrators must first request
permission from the government in order to hold protests. In the law, the
Interior Ministry also reserves the right to disband protests at any time if the
government has deemed them to be violent.Edited translation from Al-Masry
Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2013 Egypt Independent
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              650 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday

Protests planned for Nakba memorial

BYLINE: Hend Kortam

LENGTH: 223 words


Palestinian refugees in 1948
(Photo from wikipedia)

Several days of protests and activities are planned to mark the 64th anniversary
of the Nakba, when Israel declared independence in 1948.

The 6 April Youth Movement- Democratic Front is among the groups organising
events. Media spokesperson for the movement Mostafa Al-Hagari said the events
start with a seminar on Saturday regarding the right of Palestinian refugees to
return to their homes in Palestine.

The seminar will be followed by a protest on Monday. The protest will be held
outside the British Embassy in Cairo, and protesters plan to draw
pro-Palestinian graffiti on the walls of the embassy.

On Wednesday 15 May, a protest will be held outside the Arab League. The theme
of the protest will also be the right of return. Arabs commemorate the Nakba on
15 May.

Nakba, Arabic for catastrophe, commemorates one day after Israel's declaration
of independence, made on 14 May 1948 after the Arab-Israeli War.

"There is coordination that the protest takes place at the same time as protests
in other Arab countries," Al-Hagari said.

He added that the movement is also coordinating with other political groups to
see if they will join the activities.

Related posts:

SCAF vows to avenge the killing of its soldiers

Egypt taking a special interest in Palestinian prisoners

Arab League meets EU envoy

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 127

LENGTH: 109  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Tuesday. According to details, a man
named Nazir Ahmed, resident of Latifabad staged a protest demonstration against
the occupation of his residential plot by the influential men of his area. The
employees of the HDA recorded a protest demonstration for the issuance of their
withheld salaries. The residents of the Latifabad recorded a protest
demonstration against the administration of a private school in their area. The
employees of the Baldia City recorded a protest demonstration against the non
issuance of their withheld salaries.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              652 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Cosatu warns of more e-toll action;
Drive-slow protest in CBD and on city highways leads to massive traffic
disruption

BYLINE:  Mogomotsi Magome

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words


Cosatu has warned of more drive-slow protests against e-tolling on Gauteng
highways after what it considered a "very successful" protest yesterday.

The union federation and some of its affiliates have embarked on a drive-slow
protest against e-tolling, a system it says would be detrimental to the working
class if implemented.

The protest, which started with a handful of cars driving slowly in the Pretoria
city centre, caused severe traffic delays, as intended by the organisers.

Later the convoy, led by nearly|30 cars owned by Cosatu members and branded with
the labour federation's posters and slogans, also brought traffic to a
near-standstill on the N1 and R21 highways.

Many motorists, especially those unaware of the protests, appeared frustrated
when caught up in the huge traffic backlog.

The Tshwane Metro Police deployed more than 60 officers on motorbikes and in
metro police vehicles to marshal the traffic.

An officer was injured when the motorbike he was riding collided with one of the
cars taking part in the protest near the N1 and R21 interchange. Metro police
spokesman Isaac Mahamba said the accident was the only incident during the
protest. Demonstrators were marshalled until they returned to the old Putco bus
depot in Marabastad.

"The accident took place on the N1 direction south," Mahamba said.

"Both the officer and the Cosatu motorist were taken to hospital and were
stable.

"The officer did a U-turn as he was helping to control the traffic but the
motorist did not see him.

"That was the only incident to report, so the protest went very well without any
major incidents."

Mahamba said although many motorists were frustrated by the traffic, they
appeared to support Cosatu's stance and eventually accepted they would be stuck
in traffic for a while.

"Most of them were hooting in approval and showing their support," he said.

Cosatu's secretary for Gauteng, Dumisani Dakile, said that the unions were
organising more |drive-slow protests around the province.

"There will be more drive-slow protests, because we want to make our point about
the e-tolls, which is that the public is against them," he said.

"We had a very successful protest today, even though the turnout was (low) in
the beginning. As the day progressed you could see that many people were
supporting the protest.

"There are still more drive-slow protests being organised and we know they will
be as successful as what you saw here today."

According to Dakile, it was too early to say whether the protests would make the
government change its tune on the implementation of the e-tolls.

"It's too early to tell, but with the many other protests that we are planning,
we hope to make a serious impact and the more support we get from people, the
higher the chances of having this e-tolling scrapped," said Dakile.

"We are not backing down."

The protest disrupted the morning traffic in the city centre. It also affected
the evening traffic along the highway as it was still taking place between 5pm
and 6pm, when many people were returning from work.

mogomotsi.magome@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              653 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           December 29, 2012 Saturday

Protest demanding justice for Sita Rai enters day II

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Dec. 29 -- A group of young activists, cine artists, victim's family
members and general public continued sit-in protest s outside the Prime
Ministers' official residence in Baluwatar on Saturday as well.

The activists have been demanding justice for Sita Rai (name changed) who was
robbed by immigration officials and allegedly rape d by a police constable.

According to activists, they have been compelled to continue protest as Prime
Minister Baburam Bhattarai refused to accept their petition yesterday.

More than 100 protest ors have already joined the protest and many more are on
their way to express their solidarity with the protest ers.

The protest ers have launched a campaign on Twitter and Facebook and put up a
petition online to press the authorities concerned to book the guilty.

The demands include formation of a monitoring committee to look into the cases,
suspension of high-profile officials, including the director general and the
director of the Immigration Department to facilitate the investigation into
Rai's case. They demanded the accused be charged under criminal law,
departmental action be taken against them and report prepared by a joint
secretary-led probe panel be made public.

The Home Ministry had on Monday suspended section officers Ram Prasad Koirala
and Tika Pokharel for their involvement in the Rai case. Senior non-gazetted
official Somnath Khanal and police constable Parsuram Basnet are in police
custody. Rai, a 21-year old migrant worker, was robbed by immigration officials
upon her arrival from Saudi Arabia at the Tribhuvan International Airport and
subsequently " rape d" by the police constable. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              654 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

BRIEF: Railwaymen protest in Georgia

BYLINE: N. Kirtskhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 215 words


Oct. 24--TBILISI, Georgia -- About 400 employees of Georgian railway will hold a
warning protest march on October 24. According to one of the strike organizers
Ilya Lezhava, freight transport will be suspended for 8 hours.

Through this action machinists and their assistants will demand improvement of
work conditions and safety and increase in wages from the Georgian Railway
administration.

According to the protest organizers, the suspension of transportation will be
the first step, and unless the administration takes measures, the railwaymen
plan a more radical protest. Concrete plans will be made at a meeting, which
will be held in the locomotive depot in a suburb of Tbilisi on October 25.

According to Lezhava the salary of a driver amounts to 900 lari, of engineer
assistant -- 600 lari, while the administration employees are paid up to 21
thousand lari. The work schedule is not adjusted and operators and their
assistants have to work almost the whole day, he said.

Previously, negotiations between the administration and railwaymen gave no
results.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: GR, Georgia

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121024-1AZ-BRF-Railwaymen-protest-in-Georgia-1024-20121024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              655 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 178

LENGTH: 194  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday.

According to details, the activists of the PPP-SB SU staged a protest
demonstration against the arrest of their party leaders namely Agha Abbas Pathan
and Babar Sandilo. They demanded of the concerned authorities to ensure release
of their party leaders. The residents of village Bakhar Jamali New Saeedabad
staged a protest demonstration for recovery of two abducted men namely Zulfiqar
Ali Jamali and Aftab Wadho. The members of the Sindh Professors and Lecturers
Association (SPLA) continued their protest demonstration in favor of their
demands.

The activists of a social welfare organization SPARC recorded a protest
demonstration against the poor quality of education in the province of Sindh.
The activists of the Maheshwari Jamaat Sindh under the leadership of Sham Lal,
Misri Kumar, Jiyo Mal and others staged a protest demonstration for arrest of
the accused men to attack their community man Sham Lal. A widow namely Nasiban,
resident of village Berani of Tando Allahyar staged a protest demonstration
against her brother-in-law.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              656 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                              Business Day Edition

Are fiery street protests replacing the vote?

BYLINE: KAREN HEESEand KEVIN ALLAN

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 748  words


Are fiery street protests replacing the vote?

IT IS interesting to consider the latest service delivery protest in the news -
police retaliated with live rounds after an Ermelo community staged what became
a particularly violent service delivery protest. The death of one man and an
attack on an eNews team are features of the intensity of the incident, but
otherwise it conforms to the increasing phenomenon of (often violent) service
delivery protests. What sticks out is the timing of the protest.

It comes after last week's state of the nation address, when local government
elections were confirmed for the end of May. The question the protest raises is
why the community of Wesselton doesn't take its dissatisfaction to the polls.
This raises a more troubling issue: are service delivery protests perceived to
be an increasingly legitimate and possibly more effective alternative to our
country's hard-won democracy?

Of course, local government elections are not an entirely diametrically opposed
issue to service delivery protests. Some commentators have speculated that the
protest was sparked by the release of the African National Congress's (ANC's)
list of candidates for local elections. Even if this was the catalyst, the
important issue is that communities across SA can be galvanised behind the broad
and clear consensus that & service delivery& especially by local government, is
inadequate, often with allegations of corruption and ineptitude.

While Mpumalanga's MEC of cooperative governance, Madala Masuku, is correct to
condemn the violence against & a government chosen by the people& the moral high
ground may not be safe from the protests that have become an entrenched
phenomenon. Municipal IQ's Hotspots Monitor, which records major protests staged
against local government, as reported in the media, found that despite a
distinct drop in the number of protests in the second half of last year, 2009
and 2010 together account for about two-thirds of all protests since 2004. This
consolidation of the phenomenon is an indictment of public participation at the
local level.

Protests have now afflicted 40% of local and metropolitan municipalities, with
the latter especially badly hit despite their typically sound delivery records.
Arguably, protests in metro municipalities, which account for almost half of all
protests we recorded, are not always prompted by an outright failure of
delivery, but rather an inability to deliver at a pace that keeps up with
urbanisation. To this end, the target announced in the state of the nation
address to formalise informal settlements is important, especially given that
about 37% of protests on the Hotspots Monitor take place in informal
settlements.

The urban make-up of many of the protests explains, in part, Gauteng's
prominence; with the province accounting for 40% of protests last year, followed
by the Western Cape (15% of 2010's protests), with heated protest activity
raging on the fast-growing Cape Flats.

These metro protests are often complex sociopolitical battles, in which protests
are sparked by perceived inequalities in delivery, as well as the obvious and
pressing need for the upgrading of hundreds of informal settlements.

The North West and Mpumalanga, which accounted for 10% and 7% of protests last
year, are subject to more complex political dynamics, as is evident in the
Ermelo case - many are prompted by clear frustrations with the pace and quality
of service delivery, often in the presence of infrastructure backlogs, but
individual cases may also involve factionalism, infighting and personal agendas
that play on underlying discontent.

Nonetheless, there is little evidence of a clear or consistent & third force&
behind protests over time, and especially not across the country. Rather, the
issues of poverty, inequality and disappointed expectations provide the source
of community unhappiness.

It is hard, then, to predict whether protests are likely to spread to other
parts of the country in the run-up to elections, in the way that contagion was
evident in the Free State in 2004 and Mpumalanga in 2009. If they do, it is a
worrying indication that communities perceive greater potential to leverage
change through violent protests, possibly by influencing internal ANC
priorities, than they do through the ballot box. The apparent absence of a
viable opposition party may remain one of the most significant reasons behind
protests.

o Heese is Municipal IQ's economist, while Allan is its MD.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              657 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1720

LENGTH: 168  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Saturday.  According to details, a girl
namely Nayab d/o Shahjahan Dars, resident of Matiari staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of her accused rapists. The activists of the Sunni
Tehreek Hyderabad under the leadership of Khalid Hussain Attari, Muhammad
Shafique Meyo, Ghulam Hussain Qadri and others staged a protest demonstration
against the arrest of the activists of ST. Activists of the Sindh United Party
under the leadership of Arshad Mallah, Mehboob and others staged a protest
demonstration for the repair of water supply and sewerage lines at village
Sanjar Mallah.

A primary teacher namely Waqar Mallah, resident of Nandu district Badin staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of his wife namely Parveen. The members
of the Indus Development Organization staged protest demonstration against the
allotment of lands to the influential men in katcha areas of Sindh.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              658 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

Montenegrin steelworkers to hold daily protest walks until "demands are met"

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by Montenegrin TV on 6 October

[Presenter] The workers of [Niksic-based] Steelworks shall, as of Tuesday [12
October], stage protest walks every working day, the union executive committee
has decided. The protests will be held, as it was announced, until demands are
fulfilled or a specific response by those authorized is given.

[Steelworks' union president Janko Vucinic] We will begin with protest walks
going down Vuk Karadzic Street, Nikola Tesla Street and Njegos Street up until
the municipal assembly building. We will complete the protest walk with a
protest rally. This form of workers' protest will be held every working day
until our demands are met.

Source: TV Crna Gora, Podgorica, in Serbian 1330 gmt 6 Oct 10

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              659 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

International Islamic University Islamabad students staged protest rally against
suicide blasts in the campus

SECTION: Vol. XI No. 35

LENGTH: 164  words


Students of International Islamic University Islamabad (IIUI) staged a protest
rally here Tuesday after the suicide blast in the New-Campus.

According to details students residing in the University Hostels became agitated
over two suicide blasts in the university campus and staged a protest rally in
the varsity and also staged protests demonstration for evacuating the students
from University Hostels.

Later when federal Interior Minister A. Rehman Malik visited IIUI, the students
of the university were staging protest demonstration and he urged on the
students to observe unity and directed the police deployed at Campus not to
restrict the students from venting their emotions.

Students also chanted anti-America slogans during the protest and some students
wept bitterly at the loss of lives of their fellow students and friends and told
the Minister that security arrangements in the university were not better and
appealed to the Minister to punish the responsible elements.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                            February 9, 2009 Monday

Taxi drivers mount new protests today;
Taxi Protest

LENGTH: 108 words



HIGHLIGHT: Taxi drivers have begun a second day of protest against the way their
sector is regulated.


Taxi drivers have begun a second day of protest against the way their sector is
regulated.

Drivers who belong to the SIPTU union are to mount a three hour picket at Dublin
Airport from 11am to seek a moratorium on the issue of new taxi licences.

They claim that the high number of licences being issued is making it impossible
for them to earn a living.

They are also demanding a right of appeal against decisions of the taxi
regulator. A further protest will also take place in the city centre. It is the
second day of protests by the drivers in a week. The union says it will step up
its protest action if the government does not respond to its demands.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             June 21, 2008 Saturday

Opposition protest continues in Punjab

LENGTH: 207 words


LAHORE: The opposition on Saturday continued its protest outside the Assembly
building against the delay in issuing notification of the opposition leader in
the Punjab Assembly.  The opposition members vowed to continue the protest till
the notification of the opposition leader.  The opposition members in the
leadership of opposition leader Chaudhry Zaheer-ud-Din were present in the
protest camp and registered protest against the government behaviour.

Talking to newsmen nominated opposition leader Chaudhry Zaheer-ud-Din said, "the
behaviour of government is undemocratic and the opposition's role is not
admitted. Our protest will continue till the achievement of our demand".

The government wants to bring opposition of its own but it will not be allowed
to succeed, he said.  He said they do not know for how long the coalition
remains intact but they do not see this government.  "We have the required
majority for the opposition leader and application in this regard has been
submitted to the Speaker and we have the support of those members, who signed
the application", he remarked.

Opposition leader Majida Zaidi said opposition leader is as important as a wheel
for a vehicle but the present government adopted its strict stand.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2008 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              664 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                      March 17, 2002 Sunday Final Edition

200 demonstrate against Israeli occupation: Ottawa protest outside U.S. Embassy
urges Canada to help stop 'bullying'

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Rebecca Reid

SECTION: City; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 385 words

Waving Palestinian and Canadian flags, and chanting "American generosity,
Zionist atrocity," about 200 people gathered in front of the United States
Embassy yesterday to protest the Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip and West
Bank.

Protesters held signs that read "Stop Violating Human Rights" and "53 Years of
Palestinian Dispossession."

One little girl, clad warmly in a ski jacket, hoisted a placard that read "Stop
Killing Palestinian Children."

Rima Alhajj, protest organizer and president of Solidarity for Palestine Human
Rights at the University of Ottawa, said the point of the demonstration is to
"stand up against the illegal occupation by Israel in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip."

Israel deployed 20,000 troops to the West Bank and Gaza Strip this month.

This was in response to a series of Palestinian bombings and shootings in their
largest military operation since Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon.

This month alone, 192 Palestinians and 62 Israelis have been killed in violent
clashes.

Ms. Alhajj said the protesters want the Canadian government to help the
Palestinians.

"If you see a bully beating someone up, you do something about it," she said.

Ms. Alhajj has family in parts of Israel and said they are treated like
second-class citizens.

"No one has been hurt, but getting around is difficult. They are skeptical of
Israeli Palestinians," she said.

According to Ms. Alhajj, her family's ethnic identities are indicated on their
Israeli passports.

"They don't benefit from the laws of the Jewish state," she said.

Ms. Alhajj expressed concerns about Western bias in favour of the Israelis and
said she feels the media are unfair to the Palestinians. She says her family has
cancelled subscriptions to area newspapers in disgust.

"The UN is supposed to be neutral," she said. "They are supposed to be advocates
of peace."

When asked about the U.S.-influenced withdrawal of Israeli troops from Ramallah
and two other Palestinian towns on Friday she said: "I'm somewhat impressed, but
I'm shocked they did it.

"I don't know if it's because they are losing international support or if
they've changed their opinion."

Nevertheless, she sees it as a positive step.

"Israel doesn't listen to us, but they might consider what the U.S. has to say."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Levac, The Ottawa Citizen; Raja Hunaidi, bottom, and a
large crowd of demonstrators gathered for a pro-Palestinian protest yesterday.
Protesters want Canada and the United States to intervene in the Middle East
dispute.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              665 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                              May 11, 2001, Friday

A century on, protests mark change in attitude - 100 YEARS OF PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: Louise Milligan

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words


PROTESTS outside the commemorative sittings of parliament in Melbourne this week
would not have been possible 100 years ago, historian Geoffrey Blainey has said.

Reverence to royalty and the changing nature of news reporting meant protesters
at the opening of the first parliament would not have been well received or
publicised, Professor Blainey said.

Both the commemoration of the first parliament in Melbourne's Exhibition
Building and the joint sitting of both houses of parliament were marked by
protests by textile workers, biscuit manufacturing workers, Friends of the ABC
and the anti-uranium lobby.

Professor Blainey, who has written accounts of Australian history such as The
Tyranny of Distance and who spoke at Wednesday's federation ceremony, said he
was unaware of protests at parliament's first sitting.

"It was a royal occasion and royal occasions were so uncommon at the time that a
protest would have done much harm to the group's cause," he said.

"Attitudes to royalty have changed profoundly," he said, adding that people were
now much more likely to protest during royal visits.

Protests outside sporting events would now be seen as more of an affront than
those at royal occasions, he said.

But he said television news was also a boon for protests.

"I think one of the key reasons why a protest is more likely today is that
television loves action, whereas newspapers at the time were less likely to see
a minor protest as newsworthy," he said.

But the reception of the Bradmill textile workers, who risk losing their jobs
and redundancy payments with the company in receivership, at Victorian
Parliament House yesterday was less than welcoming.

John Howard ignored the workers as he greeted the Federation Guard and later
refused to speak to them.

Bradmill Textile workers Vera Zvezdakouski, Gica Tatevski and Steve Graham
brought a giant fabric petition up to parliament's doors but they were slammed
shut, with the workers forced to give it to an embarrassed-looking police
officer instead.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              666 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                           September 23, 2016 Friday

On protests, democracy and the State

LENGTH: 1148 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Sept. 23 -- From Dondra to Point Pedro (Devundera to Peduru Tuduwa)
protests are numerous. In fact they are a regular daily occurrence much frequent
than vagaries of weather. The wave of protests that began in the last days of
the former regime has taken a quantum leap since the advent of the new
Government. Supporters of the latter would say that it is a sign of the
democratic renaissance ushered by them. However it is not the whole truth for
there is a streak of anarchy in some of these protests. Some cannot be linked to
democracy at all.

For example, some time ago there was a protest of parents of schoolchildren
demanding that an innocent child stigmatized by the ignorance of villagers (on
account of a false accusation that his mother was suffering from AIDS) should
not be admitted to a school. School authorities gave in to the unjust demand.
The issue, though settled by other means there was no effort to educate the
protestors on the unjust nature of their demand.

Then quite recently there was a protest in a suburb of Galle against the
construction of an additional health facility for treating TB patients. It
happened to be an area with a relatively high density of TB patients. The
villagers preferred to live with them rather than helping them to get cured. TB
is a curable disease. What is more, a Member of Parliament also decided to join
the protest rather than explaining to them the rationale in setting up the new
health facility. If such protests arise everywhere hospitals for TB control
would have to be set up either in the moon or in some other area of outer space.

Violates equality of opportunities

Protests by themselves are not symptomatic of democracy. In both the above
instances they infringed on the rights of another party. Democracy does not mean
denial of others' legitimate rights. Proliferation of such protests would lead
to anarchy.

Last week we also saw another protest. Of course it was not by villagers but
members of an educated and well respected profession- the doctors. They were
demanding the admission of their children to popular schools, including the most
popular. Given the limited number of vacancies in such schools and the high
demand for admission from parents in general, it is an injustice to the rest of
the community to set off even a limited quota for children of one professional
group. It violates the equality of opportunities that should be provided to the
citizens irrespective of their social status etc. Already this equal opportunity
has been breached by the preferential system afforded to children of the members
of Armed Forces and the Police not to mention that admissions on the sly on
recommendations by politicians and other influential persons. Things had come to
such a pass that even a child getting 80 marks on the average at the Grade Five
Scholarship Examination cannot get a place in a popular school of his or her
choice.

The Government blamed the GMOA for their unjust demand but that is not enough.
It cannot wash its hands off and shirk its responsibility to secure the right of
education of every child which is universal in character.

The root cause of the problem is the large disparities in the quality of
education imparted in different types of government schools. Generally rural and
estate schools as well as a large number of urban schools attended by children
of relatively low - income families are plagued with lack of buildings, poor
toilet facilities, lack of playgrounds, inadequate teachers as well as
insufficient school furniture. Nor are parents and old pupils rich enough to
supplement whatever is provided by the State. The present discriminatory system
of grading schools should be done away with. As a beginning primary education
should be the responsibility of the preliminary grade schools. Proximity of the
child's residence to the school and the child's age should be the only criteria
for Grade One admissions. Secondary education schools should be the next tier.
They should be separate from the primary schools. Obviously the primary schools
should be more numerous as the children need to be as close to their homes.
Those that complete primary education should be should be accommodated in
Secondary schools in the same area. Temporary provision could be made to have
admission tests on a provincial basis for selection to better placed secondary
schools until such time that disparities among secondary schools are eliminated.
The third tier would obviously be confined to tertiary education.

Admissions to popular schools

Such a scheme would facilitate more rational and economic use of both physical
infrastructure as well as human capital. It would also facilitate the
implementation of a uniform education. Provision of education should be made
democratic with the views and concerns of all stakeholders being accommodated by
the highest possible consensus among them. Unfortunately pressure groups
comprising old pupils, politicians and racial and religious sects often exert a
negative influence which undermines equity and fair play. As mentioned in an
earlier column school should not be segregated according to racial or religious
identities of pupils.

The rush for admissions to popular schools results from the poor quality of
education in the school system which is perpetuated by favouritism of
politicians and officials towards the more affluent schools.

Already there is pressure on accommodation and other physical facilities
available at schools due to the increasing student population. The decision of
the government to extend compulsory education up to G C E (A/L) would add to
this pressure. However, a closer scrutiny of the existing facilities reveals
their under-utilization. It is here that thinking out of the box becomes a
necessity. Grades Six to Eight or junior secondary level classes could be easily
held in the afternoons with the already available facilities. Such a step would
also facilitate higher accommodation in primary grades too.

The Nearest School Best School project of the present Government will also not
end discrimination in primary education. Governments, present as well as past
have been relying on "One size fits all" prescriptions of the World Bank in
matters of education policy. Of late its emphasis is on reduction of government
expenditure on education by passing on some of its burden to the private sector,
NGOs and school authorities. In the Sri Lankan context where altruism is not a
virtue of the private sector and people are too much burdened with day-to-day
living such a prescription would surely result in further deterioration of
already disadvantaged schools and their virtual closure.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              667 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             June 1, 2016 Wednesday

Nurses continue to protest for their rights, demands

LENGTH: 440  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, June 1 -- The Young Nurses Association (YNA) of government hospitals
continued to protest for the second day against the government for not
fulfilling their demands of health risk allowances and service structure reforms
in front of Punjab Assembly, The Mall on Tuesday.

It is pertinent to mention that nurses had also held a sit-in on Monday outside
the Punjab Assembly. A representative of the Young Nurses Alliance (YNA) had
stated that the nurses from all government hospitals would stage their sit-in
protest by 9am.

The nurses' protest at Faisal Chowk proved to be a hindrance as traffic jam
ensued in the surrounding area due to their protest. Nurses called for
implementation of the "already announced" service structure as well as their
health risk allowance.

The nurses camped on The Mall and also boycotted their indoor and outdoor duties
in public hospitals. Their boycott caused many problems for the patients while
their protest also blocked the roads, causing massive traffic jams. The Mall,
Ganga Ram Hospital Road and Davis Road suffered the most at hands of the
protest. YNA was protesting for their longstanding demands of appraisal in
salaries, reforms in service structure and provision of health risk allowance.
The nurses on the occasion vowed to continue their protest until the fulfillment
of their demands.

The previous day, nurses' strike had caused difficulties for citizens as their
protest caused problems for daily commuters. Ambulances also faced trouble
passing through Shahrah-e-Fatima Jinnah and The Mall, as both of these roads
were blocked due to the protest.

After the protest, Punjab Chief Minister's Adviser on Health Khawja Salman
Rafeeq issued a warning to all those who were instigating nurses to go on
strikes, saying that they would face strict action.

The protesters chanted slogans against the hospital administration for not
approving their basic demands. However, the government and other concerned
departments, including police, have planned to disperse the protesting nurses by
imposing on them charges of violation of the court order that made it illegal to
protest against government on The Mall.

YNA members Rosina and Nusrat Cheema said that the administration had shut down
all the roads and streetlights around the protesting venue and later arrested
the protestors forcefully. They said that the concerned officials cordon off the
area and there might be a crackdown against them soon.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              668 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             April 22, 2016 Friday

Federal Alliance unveils fresh protest, to picket Singha Durbar on May 14

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, April 22 -- The Federal Alliance, an alliance of the agitating seven
Madhes-based parties and other ethnic political parties, on Friday unveiled its
future protest programs.

According to the protest plan, the alliance will picket Singha Durbar, the main
administrative building of the country, on May 14.

The meeting of the alliance held at the Tinkune-based central party office of
the Federal Socialist Forum Nepal (FSFN) this afternoon decided to resume
protest from last week of April and unveiled protest programs for 15 days. The
protest will be organized in all three geographical regions-Tarai, Hill and
Mountain.

As per the protest plan, the alliance will submit protest note on April 27 and
put up black flags at government offices on April 29.

Likewise, protest assemblies will be held in Butwal, Panchthar, Rautahat,
Birgunj, Nepalgunj, Janakpur, Palpa, Illam, Surkhet, Dhangadhi among other
districts.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              669 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

Harin has stopped doctors from protest -GMOA

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Feb. 23 -- Telecommunication and Digital Infrastructure Minister
Harin Fernando has obtained a court order preventing doctors from the Uva
province protesting, Government Medical Officers' Association Secretary Dr.
Nalinda Herath said.

He said the doctors had meant to protest opposite Badulla General Hospital
today, against unsavoury statements made by the Prime Minister and Minister
Harin Fernando about GMOA.

"We learned that Minister Fernando wanted to organise a protest against us but
he could not gather the adequate people. As a result of this, he has now
obtained a court order to prevent our protest," he said.

Dr. Herath said that nevertheless, a series of protests will take place today
and over the next few days regarding some of the issues faced by the GMOA
recently.

He said there would be a protest opposite the Kurunegala General Hospital on
Friday, to demand the government to take over Malabe Private Medical Faculty.
North Western Province doctors will protest the statement made by the Prime
Minister at the same time, he said.

He also said a special meeting of all the trade unions in the health sector -
nurses' trade unions, ambulance drivers' trade unions, midwives' trade unions,
trade unions of minor health workers etc. - will take place, in which the future
of the unions will be discussed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              670 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

BRIEF: Group protests Rep. Buddy Carter's stance on Pres. Obama's nuclear deal
with Iran

BYLINE: Larry Hobbs, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


Aug. 26--Protesters wearing "I Support Veterans For World Peace" T-shirts and
waving Defend Diplomacy signs stood in the median on Newcastle Street during
lunch hour in downtown Brunswick on Wednesday, calling for U.S. Representative
Buddy Carter to change his stance and support the Obama Administration's Iran
Nuclear Deal.

The protest included about eight to 10 folks who expressed their belief that the
deal will help bring stability to the volatile and war-weary Middle East.
Carter, R-1, has said he will not support the deal. Protest organizer Lela
McNutt had a petition signed by 616 supporters of the deal from the Golden Isles
that she submitted after the protest to Carter's Brunswick office, located on
the second floor of a nearby building.

"We want to tell Buddy to vote for diplomacy," said McNutt. "He (Carter) is
about to vote against diplomacy. War is a racket."

Said protester Kathleen Pleskot: "What brought me out is the idea that we need
to give peace a chance, and this (deal) is a good mechanism for it."

The protesters were part of the Democratic Party's MoveOn.org movement.

Read the story in tomorrow's issue of The Brunswick News.

___ (c)2015 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150826-GE-BRF-Group-protests
-Rep-Buddy-Carter-s-stance-on-Pres-Obama-s-nuclear-deal-with-Iran-0826-20150826

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2015 The Brunswick News


                              671 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             August 17, 2015 Monday

Protests fall short of expectations in Brazil

LENGTH: 556  words


The major anti-government protests scheduled for Sunday in Brazil turned out to
be of a lesser scale than organizers had expected, which may give President
Dilma Rousseff and her Workers' Party some much needed breathing time.

A demonstrator attends a protest against Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff, part
of nationwide protests calling for her impeachment, at Paulista Avenue in Sao
Paulo's financial centre, Brazil, August 16, 2015. [Photo/Agencies]

RIO DE JANEIRO - The major anti-government protests scheduled for Sunday in
Brazil turned out to be of a lesser scale than organizers had expected, which
may give President Dilma Rousseff and her Workers' Party some much needed
breathing time.

The protests, which occurred in almost all Brazilian states, were expected to
gather several million people to call for President Rousseff's impeachment and
increase pressure on the federal administration.

However, participation was much lower than expectation, totaling 610,000,
matching the figures registered in the April protest and not nearing the over
1.5 million people estimated at the largest organized protest in March.

The figures indicate that calls for Rousseff's impeachment may be dwindling
though her approval rate is at an all-time low.

The opposition was not the only one to get to the streets on Sunday. Supporters
of the current government marched in Sao Paulo, gathering in a small crowd in
front of the Lula Institute, founded by former President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, Rousseff's predecessor and political mentor.

Research institute Datafolha estimated a total of 135,000 protesters appeared in
Sao Paulo, the largest opposition protest in the country, while organizers put
the number at 1 million and local police said 350,000 people showed up.

Police estimated that 25,000 people protested in Brasilia, the country's capital
city, and 20,000 in Rio. The protests were also extended abroad, with an
estimated 120 people taking part in London and Paris together.

Demonstrators walk past shirts that read, "Out Dilma", during a protest against
Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff, part of nationwide protests calling for her
impeachment, at Paulista Avenue in Sao Paulo's financial centre, Brazil, August
16, 2015. [Photo/Agencies]

Senator Aecio Neves, the defeated candidate in last year's presidential
election, participated in the protest at Belo Horizonte, capital of his home
state Minas Gerais, where attendance was estimated at 10,000.

Protests in most cities were calm and even family-oriented events, with
protesters taking selfies with the police, in a big contrast with the protests
in 2013, which were dominated by conflicts with the authorities, criticisms,
arrests and police violence.

The carnival-like environment of Sunday's protests, with choreographed dances,
was criticized by the left wing.

In social networks, jokes about the protests were abundant, with several memes
and amusing pictures of some of the most peculiar protesters being reblogged by
thousands of people.

Earlier in the evening, Rousseff met with some ministers in Brasilia to discuss
the outcome of the protests.

The government evaluates the protest as one within 'democratic normalcy', said
Social Communications Minister Edinho Silva, adding Rousseff is expected to hold
a regular cabinet meeting to discuss the government's strategy on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              672 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Partly Facetious: The definition of violent protests

BYLINE: ANJUM IBRAHIM

SECTION: Vol. LI No. 76

LENGTH: 345  words


"Violent protests facilitate terrorist agenda, so said Chaudhry Nisar."

"I agree, but one must not limit the definition of violent protests."

"Oh you mean if MQM protests it's facilitating the terrorist agenda and if PMLN
protests it is fighting for democracy?"

"Yep, you say tomato the US way and I say it the British way the old linguistic
controversy."

"That linguistic controversy has led to thousands of deaths and do I need to
define death as anything but from natural causes?"

"Right, but I would like to add that violent protests that facilitate the
terrorist agenda must not be limited to political protests. I would also include
violent protests in the aftermath of a terror attack. The Christian community
burnt to death two people who reports indicate may not have been engaged in the
heinous attack on the Youhanabad church. That needs checking..."

"Absolutely, and need I add, state terrorism must also be defined."

"Ah yes, the Model Town tragedy and all, I agree."

"State terrorism does fuel violent protests as we have seen in several countries
as well as our own."

"Indeed and to resign for a short period of time till the investigation..."

"Oh that ain't gonna happen my friend. I mean our democracy is still in its
infancy  wait till democracy becomes a toddler at least."

"How long to toddlerdom?"

"More than eight years if we look at what is happening in our country."

"OK, and may I also include the violent protests against a tax designed to
broaden the base as facilitating terrorists?"

"OK, but if Dar continues to tax the already taxed then can they be exempt from
violent protests being defined as facilitating terrorists."

"No exceptions and I would also include lawyers who have been beating up judges
and the police..."

"That's an irony isn't it? I mean our former chief justice Chaudhry Iftikhar,
the guy that the lawyers' movement reinstated and need I add the basis of the
lawyers enhanced power, is no longer held in as great a respect to put it
mildly..."

"See that is the thing about power in Pakistan: once you get it you ain't gonna
let go."

"Indeed."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              673 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Civil rights leader says political situation behind Chadian youth protests

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 11 March

[Announcer] Chadian youth decried the recent confrontation in the country on
Monday [9 March] with police officers in the capital city N'Djamena. The protest
was held to protest the government's decision to impose the use of helmets on
motorcycles. This had been the main reason for the strike but later political
slogans were chanted. According to Mahamat Zen Cheriff, the head of a civil
movement in Chad, it was for that reason that the police reacted so roughly
during the protests. Here is what he said.

[Zen Cheriff] We are now observing in Chad that contrary to the law that permits
peaceful protests in the country, the government never accepts that the people
express their wishes or disgust through protests.

That leads to frustration and authorities are very fearful of the youth. All
protests by the youth are viewed to have a political nature especially the
questions of bad governance. That is the reason why any protests held to
demonstrate about political issues are banned by the government. But those held
to praise the government are allowed to go on. Any dissenting voice is not
allowed to be heard through protests.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0530 gmt 11 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              674 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            January 27, 2015 Tuesday

Oppn won't be able to intensify protests: UML

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Jan. 27 -- The CPN-UML has assessed that the opposition alliance led
by UCPN (Maoist) will not be able to conduct the protest programmes. Saying that
people want constitution through consensus, not protests, the UML concluded that
people are not interested in the street protests of opposition parties.

The heads of the UML's sister organisations were summoned at the party
headquarters at Balkhu, where senior leader Jhala Nath Khanal, mentioned that
the people wanted constitution from political parties without any protests.

He said the ruling parties should present the country with constitution by the
time the opposition parties enter their third phase of their protests. "They
have announced protest programmes in three phases," Khanal said, "We will have
drafted the constitution when they reach their third phase."

Khanal opined that the roadmap and the agenda of the protests were unclear.

Meanwhile, leader Madhav Kumar Nepal has directed the heads of its sister
organisations and office bearers to inform people about the obstruction posed by
UCPN (M) in Constituent Assembly. He has also requested them to provide factual
reports on the protest programmes of oppositions.

Khanal and Nepal said that they would continue holding talks with the
oppositions seeking consensus but opined that country cannot be held hostage of
indecision in the name of forging consensus.

Also, UML chief whip Agni Kharel said that UCPN (M) did not agree on any of the
alternatives presented for constitution drafting. He accused UCPN (M) of showing
their true face by rejecting the intermediate solution proposed by Madhesi
Janadhikar Forum-Loktantrik Chairman Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              675 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

JUI-F to hold protests against govt failure to track down culprits

BYLINE: Abrar Saeed

SECTION: Vol. XXVIII No. 268

LENGTH: 436  words


Agitated over the government's failure to track down the culprits of suicide
attack on Maulana Fazlur Rehman, Jamiat UlemaiIslamFazl(JUIF) decided to hold
countrywide protests to record their concern over the indifference of both
federal and provincial governments toward the issue.

Giving details about the protest programme, JUIF Secretary General Maulana Abdul
Ghafoor Haideri regretted the sorry state of affairs where both the federal and
provincial governments failed to even take the party leadership into confidence
about the investigation into the suicide attack on Maulana Fazlur Rehman in
Quetta on Oct. 23.

Giving details about the elaborate protest programme Maulana Abdul Ghafoor
Haideri, who is also State Minister for Postal Services, said that on December 5
party would hold protest rallies in all the four provincial capitals, Kashmir
and GilgitBaltistan. On December 19 protest demonstrations would be held at
district level all over the country while on January 16 protest demonstrations
would be organised at provincial, district and Tehsil headquarters level.

Again on January 30 protest demonstrations would be organised all over the
country while on February 27 a grand demonstration would be organised in the
federal capital while party activists from all over the country would
participate.

Responding to a question, Haideri said that though there was no plan of staging
sitin in the federal capital but the possibility of the same could not be ruled
out because it would also depend on the reaction of the government toward their
genuine demand of tracking down the culprits of suicide attack on their party
chief.

Maulana Abdul Ghafoor Haideri said that in non of the three failed suicide
attacks on Maulana Fazlur Rehman culprits were brought to justice, nor the
conspiracy against their party chief was exposed by the authorities concerned.
Criticising both the federal and Balochistan governments for not tracking down
the culprits of Quetta suicide attack on Maulana Fazlur Rehman, the JUIF
Secretary General said that they had adopted restraint but the indifference of
both the governments had forced them to take this extreme step.

To a question, he said that they had recorded their concern to the prime
minister about the authorities' indifference toward the incident and would soon
be meeting the Premier again in this connection.

To a question, he said that Federal Interior Ministry had failed to satisfy them
on the investigation into the matter while there was no policy statement coming
from government on the issue while Balochistan government was also keeping mum
over the issue.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              676 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Prices of fruits, vegetable witness increase

LENGTH: 212  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


The prices of fruits and vegetable have
witnessed increase due to protests calls on August, 14 in federal capital by
Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) and Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT).


      The vendors of fruits and vegetable expressed concerns over the
protests demonstration which has interrupted the normal life of the citizens.
      The vendors said that the PTI and PAT are responsible for hike in the
prices of fruits and vegetable, saying that their protests calls have no clear
agenda.
      Sarwar Khan, a fruit vendor said that the prices of fruits have
increased due to short of supply in the fruit markets.
      He said that the local administration should specify separate
locations for these kind of protests which are causing loss of their small
business.
      Meanwhile, the labor community also expressed concerns over the
protests demonstration and demanded that the political parties should avoid
protests calls which are creating problems for commonman.
      Shafiullah, a daily wager labour said that he has failed to get labor
due to these protests calls and it is not fair with them (Labours) by the
political parties creating chaos and uncertainty in the country.
      Inter-city transporters also expressed displeasure over the PTI and
PAT long marchs.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              677 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  West Briton

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

'Pumping of sewage into sea must end'

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 449  words


A CAMPAIGN for cleaner seas gathered momentum at Godrevy Beach as protesters
demanded water bosses stop pumping sewage into Cornish bathing spots.

Local people gathered next to the Red River on Saturday where repeated summer
pollution has forced the   cancellation of a surf contest and left bathers with
a stomach bug.

About 170 people staged the demonstration, calling on South West Water (SWW) to
stop pumping effluent into the sea via a system of combined sewer overflows
(CSOs)   which divert waste after heavy rain.

Campaign group Surfers Against Sewage (SAS)   co-ordinated the protest after
four CSO discharges since May left business owners and water users furious.

Campaigns director Andy Cummins called on the water firm to "dig into its
pocket" to shore up the system in the short term, ahead of a planned £50 billion
refit.

"Red flags are flying, surf competitions are being   cancelled and workers are
off sick during the summer - it is just not acceptable," he added.

"This is not just coming from SAS - people are really angry and the community
wants to send a strong message to South West Water that action be taken
immediately."

About 500 CSOs operate in Cornwall alone, spoiling some of the 146 designated
bathing spots in the South West.

Drains overflowed three times at Gwithian and Godrevy in two weeks during June
and July, turning the normally pristine sea brown and prompting lifeguards to
evacuate bathers.

Local resident and beach user Karin Howey, who runs a holiday cottage rental
business at Gwithian, joined the demonstration.

"I felt compelled to act, after South West Water discharged sewage which
directly affected my family and business," she said.

"Myself and the guests staying at my chalet all had severe stomach bugs after
swimming and surfing in the polluted sea. This is the 21st century and we do not
live in a third world country so how can it be acceptable that South West Water
allows untreated sewage on to our beaches."

SWW said that despite   the discharges, which are   permitted, the beach at
Godrevy has passed water quality guidelines for 13 years and is expected to
satisfy tough new EU rules when they come into effect next year.

Spokesman Alison Butts said: "Our investment in bathing waters improvements is
guided by the Environment Agency and focussed at areas which are at risk of not
meeting standards.

"These discharges usually come after heavy rain as the system is not designed to
work with that level of surface water - in Bude there was flooding in the town
and supermarket.

"In extreme weather conditions they prevent water from backing up into people's
homes."

Almost 4,000 people have signed a petition calling for an end to the sewage
discharge.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Karin Howey, who created a petition calling for SWW to clean up their
act, with SAS campaigns director Andy Cummins.
Protest against South West Water at Godrevy beach on Sunday.
Protest against South West Water at Godrevy beach on Sunday.
Making their point emphatically during the protest.
Protest against South West Water at Godrevy beach on Sunday.
Taking part in the protest at Godrevy beach on Sunday.
Andy Cummins from Surfers Against Sewage at the protest on Godrevy beach.
Protest against South West Water at Godrevy beach on Sunday.
Protest against South West Water at Godrevy beach on Sunday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              678 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The News-Item (Shamokin, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Coal Twp. chief: There's a line between protest, trespass

BYLINE: Rob Wheary, The News-Item, Shamokin, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


May 02--COAL TOWNSHIP -- Police Chief William Carpenter is clarifying some
points about a protest scheduled for Saturday at the Anthracite Outdoor
Adventure Area.

A Facebook group called "March on the AOAA Day of Mass Protest" is making plans
to protest the 6,500-acre recreation area, saying it's wrong for county
residents to pay to use land for when they already pay taxes.

Organizer Matt Reidinger said in a News-Item article Thursday he will
"peacefully cross the property line" in protest Saturday and is encouraging
others to join him.

Carpenter reminds possible participants Reidinger's statement is inviting others
to commit a crime on Saturday.

"We have no problem with the protest, and there is nothing wrong with them
engaging in a peaceful protest, but if they cross the property line, they are
committing the crime of defiant trespass," Carpenter said.

Defiant trespass is a summary offense punishable by a fine of up to $300 plus
court costs, and/or 90 days in jail. If someone defies an order to leave the
land, the offense could turn into a misdemeanor and the offender will be taken
into custody, Carpenter said.

Carpenter said the AOAA authority has set aside a specific area where protestors
can stand Saturday.

"There is an upper area above the paved road, accessible by a double gate,"
Carpenter said. "That is the area designated for Saturday's protest. Anyone
outside that area protesting will be cited."

The chief also reminded protesters there is limited space for parking in the
protest area and no parking will be allowed on the shoulder of the road. He
encourages those attending the protest to carpool.

Reidinger said approximately 50 people have agreed to participate in Saturday's
demonstration, and Carpenter doesn't have a problem with that.

"No one has a problem with the group protesting, but there is a fine line
between protesting and defiant trespass if they are going to cross the property
line as suggested," Carpenter said.

___ (c)2014 The News-Item (Shamokin, Pa.) Visit The News-Item (Shamokin, Pa.) at
www.newsitem.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140502-IZ-Coal-Twp-chief-There-s-a-line-between-protest
-trespass-0502-20140502

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IZ


                          Copyright 2014 The News-Item


                              679 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Flag protest policing - Baggott defends 'responsible' approach and vows to
appeal

BYLINE: Brendan Hughes, b.hughes@irishnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 383 words


Chief Constable Matt Baggott defended the police response to the loyalist flag
protests yesterday as he vowed to appeal the judge's ruling.

Mr Baggott said the protests had been "very challenging and very difficult
times" and said the PSNI's approach was "measured and responsible".

He said several "serious and operational dilemmas" were raised by the judgment,
which ruled that police wrongly facilitated illegal and sometimes violent
loyalist protests.

But leading flag protester Willie Frazer last night described the PSNI as a
"farce", and claimed loyalist violence would not have escalated if police had
not facilitated protests.

Mr Baggott, said the police would appeal the judgment.

He said it did not take full account of the scale of the protests at the
beginning of 2013, when in one night officers were dealing with more than 80
protests.

"I am concerned that this judgment may constrain our operational flexibility in
the future and create an expectation that police will always be able to stop
protests or arrest people at the time, irrespective of the individual
circumstances," he said.

"To do so, if that is the expectation, may require significant force and
undermine our attempts to work with communities, and that would be wrong.

"This judgment does not appear to me to take full account of the sheer scale of
the protests.

"There is a real issue here about expectations of what is both pragmatic and
feasible at the time, and that's the reason why we are going to appeal this
judgment."

Willie Frazer, who is facing unlawful procession charges over the flag protests
in 2013, criticised the police response to the demonstrations.

The 53-year-old, who denies wrongdoing and has continually claimed that police
facilitated loyalist protests, called for an investigation into the police
response.

"The fact that they have found this ruling shows how big a farce the police
force has become," he said.

"We have said all along that the police facilitated parades, and if we were
breaking the law then we should have been informed that we were breaking the
law.

"The police operation needs to be looked at because I think they need to be held
responsible for what happened.

"Obviously they didn't make people riot but at the end of the day they created a
situation which allowed boys to justify a riot."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              680 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2013 Friday

Egyptian TVs report pro-Morsi protests on first Friday after lifting curfew

LENGTH: 194 words


Egyptian state and Brotherhood TVs reported protests staged by the supporters of
ousted President Morsi on 15 November.

At 1121 gmt, Egyptian state-owned Nile News TV carried an urgent screen caption
reading: "Marches by Muslim Brotherhood [MB] elements after Friday prayers in
Cairo and Giza."

The channel, however, showed no footage of the reported protests.

Earlier, the MB's Ahrar 25 TV carried an urgent screen caption reading: "'No to
Retaliatory Justice' million-strong protest starts in all governorates." The
channel carried footage of different protests staged by Morsi's supporters.
According to the channel, the protests took place in different governorates like
Isma'iliyah, Assyut, Al-Gharbiyah and Al-Sharqiyah.

This the first Friday protests to take place after the state of emergency was
actually lifted the previous day. The country had been living under the state of
emergency since the dispersal of the pro-Morsi sit-ins on 14 August.

On 13 November, Morsi delivered a statement that was read out by lawyer Muhammad
al-Damati in which he said that the "coup" would "fail" via Egyptians' "jihad".

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1118gmt 15 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              681 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday

OU students return to protest mode to counter anti-Telangana stir

BYLINE: Nikhila Henry

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 419 words


HYDERABAD: Putting celebrations over the announcement of Telangana state on the
backburner, Osmania University (OU) students are gearing up to launch protests
and rallies in an attempt to pressurize the central government to pass the
Telangana bill in Parliament.

With protests in Seemandhra region intensifying, OU students have announced they
will flood the streets of Hyderabad if the Congress government does not speed up
the process of forming the new state. Two rallies and a dharna are already on
the cards from August 7 to 14, leaders said. Student leaders will also be part
of the planning committee formed by Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC)
which is charting out future protests to counter the Seemandhra stir. Sources
said the students are also in talks with faculty members to garner their support
for further agitations on campus.

OU Arts College was bustling with energy on Sunday morning with the OU Students
Joint Action Committee members holding a press meet to announce their decision
to hold more protests. "Succumbing to the pressure from Seemandhra leaders, the
Congress government should not go back on their promise to form a separate
Telangana state. We will start the protests with a bike rally on August 7 and
there will be more protests after that," said Tirumani Kondal, a student leader.
The campus agitation would be backed by three sections of TSJAC having
affiliations with TRS.

Students admitted they were keeping up the protest momentum in the wake of the
Seemandhra protests. "If we sit contently with the announcement, the central
government could again fool the people of Telengana. We find it necessary to
continue with the struggle for a quick resolution," said P Kailash, another
student leader. Many of them had voiced similar opinions a day after the
announcement of the new state.

Interestingly, the decision to continue with the protests has come at a time
when things were returning to normalcy in OU. The AP State Road Transport
Corporation (APSRTC) has resumed its bus service inside the campus. Attempts are
also on to get the derailed academic calendar back on track. Student leaders,
however, promised peaceful protests. "We believe in democratic, peaceful
protests. There will be no violence on campus," said Neta.

In the past, several protests in OU have turned the campus into a battlefield.
If protests hit the campus again, police officials may have to barricade the
varsity once more and station paramilitary forces there.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              682 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

BRIEF: 30 more arrested in relation with protest actions in Turkey

BYLINE: A. Tagiyeva, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 186 words


June 20--The Turkish police arrested 30 participants of the demonstrations held
in the city of Izmir in support of the protests at Istanbul's Taksim Square,
Haber7 newspaper on Thursday.

The detainees are suspected of organizing attacks on buildings of several
government departments. Operations on detention of demonstrators continue; more
arrests can happen.

Earlier it was reported that 944 people were detained during the protests in
Turkey.

Protests have been continuing in Turkey for more than 20 days. According to
representatives of the authorities, the protests already have an anti-government
character.

The Turkish opposition parties also accused the police of using excessive force
against the protesters.

Earlier, the Interior Minister of Turkey said an investigation is being carried
out in connection with the use of excessive force against the protesters.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Izmir, protest actions in Turkey

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130620-1AZ-BRF-30-more-arrested-in-relation-with-protest
-actions-in-Turkey-0620-20130620

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              683 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan: Badami Bagh tragedy: Christian community holds countrywide protests

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: FAISALABAD


FAISALABAD, March 12 -- The Christian community is holding protests throughout
the country against Badami Bagh, Lahore, incident.

In Lahore? the protestors completely destroyed Yuhana Abad Metro Bus Station and
set ablaze electric transformer.

Police used tear gas and rounded up some miscreants.

PPP Minority Wing also held a protest rally in front of Punjab Assembly against
Badami Bagh incident.

On the other hand 5 policemen were injured in tone pelting by the protestors at
Ferozepur road.

Christian community also held a protest demonstration at Faizabad interchange
Rawalpindi against the incident.

In Faisalabad? the District Aman Committee protested against the Lahore
incident.

Local Islamic clerics, students and people from various walks of life also
attended the protest demonstration.

Police resorted to tear gas shelling and aerial firing in front of Press Club to
disperse the protest rally in Karachi. The demonstrators turned violent and
torched some of the vehicles and pelted stones at police.

Protests were also reported in Mandi Bahaudin, Sargodha, Gojra, Dera Ismail
Khan, Peshawar and Gujranwala.

In Sindh, Christian communities held protest demonstrations in Karachi and
Sukkur.

The protesters demanded to immediately arrest the miscreants.

PPP member of Punjab Assembly and President of Punjab PPP Minorities Wing?
Pervez Rafiq has resigned in protest against Badami Bagh incident.

Meanwhile? Chief Minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif visited the Josef Colony and
directed authorities to swiftly address the grievances of the people.

He said Badami Bagh incident is an attempt to mutilate the image of Pakistan. He
said culprits will be brought to justice.

Pakistan Qaumi Masiha Party and Pakistan Minorities League staged a protest
outside Lahore Press Club on Sunday.

Meanwhile, Chief Justice of Pakistan Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry has
taken suo-moto notice of Joseph Colony? Badami Bagh? Lahore incident and hearing
will be held today (Monday).

On March 9, over 150 homes of the Christian community were ransacked and set on
fire by an angry mob over alleged blasphemy committed by Sawan Masih Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

Protests against blasphemous film continue

BYLINE:  Staff Report

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 264

LENGTH: 203  words


Protests against the sacrilegious film made in the US continued on Sunday as
several religious parties and members of civil society held demonstrations and
brought out rallies in the city. Rallies, seminars and protest demonstrations
were held on The Mall Road, at Lahore Press Club and other parts of the city.

Jamaatud Dawa staged a massive protest rally on The Mall during which traffic
remained blocked. The demonstrators shouted slogans against the film and
demanded that the government take appropriate steps to register its protest at
international level and ask world leaders to devise laws against such
sacrilegious acts.

Another protest was staged by the Majlis-e-Ahrar Pakistan outside Lahore Press
Club where dozens of party activists joined the demonstration. Addressing the
gathering, speakers said that the "western civilisation has been defeated and
the Islamic civilisation is replacing it".

They said that a western newspaper had printed blasphemous caricatures dozens of
time which proved the West which is proud of its civilisation had resorted to
mean acts. Another protest by the youth was staged outside the press club during
which children also recorded a silent protest against the blasphemous movie.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              685 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday

Young doctors stage protest at Dental College

BYLINE:  Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXIII No. 264

LENGTH: 238  words


The young doctors under the banner of Young Doctors Association (YDA) held a
peaceful protest here at Punjab Dental College on Saturday to press the
provincial government for the provision of service structure to them.

The General Council of the Young Doctors Association (YDA) had announced to hold
peaceful protests without halting work in emergency, OPDs and Indoor wards of
government hospitals.

Therefore, the protest, unlike those last month, did not stop doctors from
performing their duties at the Outpatient Departments (OPDs), emergency wards
and indoor wards.

The YDA has announced that it will hold peaceful protests across the Punjab till
August 13. The protests are expected to continue until the demands for service
structure revision for doctors employed by the Health Department are met.

The YDA Punjab President Hamid Butt has asked the provincial government to
accept their demands otherwise they would be forced to call general council
meeting after eid to take some decisions.

He said young doctors are waging a just struggle; hence they would not bow down
before any pressure tactics.

He held bureaucrats responsible for hurdles in the acceptance of their demands.

It may be mentioned that the provincial government has already formed a
committee under the chairmanship of Senator Ishaq Dar to resolve the issue of
young doctors. The committee already held meetings but is yet to finalise
necessary recommendations.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              687 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday

Authorities get a wake up call on the state of roads

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 292 words


MANGALORE: A call by Jaago Mangalore Association in protest against bad roads
evoked widespread response from people. Protests were staged at various venues
in the city in addition to the planned protest march and road blockade at
Yedapadav junction. Protestors all over the city expressed their frustration
over poor road maintenance, unorganized digging for pipelines, and indifference
to traffic problems on the part of the authorities concerned.In the city,
protests were staged opposite Bharath Mall, Lighthouse Hill, opposite Ram Bhavan
Complex (Kodialbail Circle), Hampankatta, State Bank of India Circle, outside
Circuit House (Kadri Hills) and also at various autorickshaw stands and bus
stops.

The protest was in the form of continuous honking of their vehicle horns for
about five minutes. There was no disruption of traffic or any other form of
disturbance to the public and road users.The protest was supported by
organizations such as DK Bus Operators Association, DK AutoRickshaw Drivers'
Union, the Canara Bus Owners' Association, Quarry and Stone Crushers'
Association, Lions Club, Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Jaycees, and
Karnataka Rakshana Vedike. The members of the Malnad Youth Association too
joined the protest.A separate protest organized at Yedapadav, Mijar attracted
nearly 3,000 protestors. As planned, a protest march began at 5 pm at the
dilapidated Bolechar bridge and moved towards Yedapadav Junction, where the
protesters blocked the road for about half an hour from 6 pm. The road block was
lifted at 6.30 pm and free movement of traffic was allowed. The line of vehicles
during the blockade was over 1km long on either side. Music and bhajans formed
the part of the event.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              688 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan: PPP to protest against Shahbaz Taseer's abduction

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Aug. 31 -- The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Punjab chapter announced the
holding of a protest demonstration against the abduction of the slain Punjab
governor Salmaan Taseer's son, Shahbaz Taseer, on Tuesday.

PPP Punjab Deputy Information Secretary Iqbal Sialvi said on Monday that his
party had serious concerns over the kidnapping of Shahbaz Taseer. He said that
Salmaan Taseer had been a prominent leader of the party and was assassinated by
a security guard in Islamabad in January this year, adding that the kidnapping
of his son was a very serious issue. Iqbal Sialvi said that PPP Punjab would
hold a protest demonstration against the abduction of Shahbaz Taseer by
unidentified armed men from Gulberg when he was en route to his office. PPP
leader said that the protest would be headed by PPP Punjab President Chaudhry
Imtiaz Safdar Warriach in front of Lahore Press Club at 11am. He said that all
office bearers, leaders and workers of the party would join the protest. The PPP
leader said that party leaders belonging to the Lahore chapter would also
participate in the protest. He stated that the party held protest demonstrations
across the province at district level on Monday. He also expressed
disappointment over the performance of local security agencies, saying that
after four days, they still had no lead which would help them trace out the
kidnapped son of the late governor Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              689 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         The Middle East Reporter (MER)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday

MOROCCO-PROTESTS

LENGTH: 342  words


MOROCCO-PROTESTS

Protesters in Morocco React to King's Proposed Constitution Reforms

Several thousand people marched through Morocco's biggest city on Sunday to
protest that constitutional reforms unveiled this week by King Mohammed have not
gone far enough, Reuters reported. After some of the biggest protests in decades
-- inspired in part by the ""Arab Spring"" uprisings -- the monarch announced on
Friday he would devolve some of his powers to parliament and the government and
put the reforms to a referendum on July 1. Under the changes, the king would
retain his hold on security, the army and religion. That disappointed some
opponents who had wanted to see the monarch hand over all his executive powers
to elected officials.



""We are here to reject the proposed constitution,"" said Aziz Yaakoubi, one of
the organizers of Sunday's protest in Casablanca, Morocco's commercial capital.
""It keeps all the powers in the hands of the king. He refused to listen to the
street."" Protesters marched through Casablanca's working class Derb Sultan
district carrying placards that read: ""No to a constitution made for slaves!""
and ""No to a constitution of dictatorship!""

About 10,000 people took part in the protest, according to Reuters, while about
500 pro-monarchy activists gathered for a nearby counter-demonstration.
Organisers of the opposition demonstration said 20,000 people took part. A
government official, who did not want to be identified, said 2,500 people took
part in the opposition protest and that most of them were members of a banned
Islamist group. The official also said the pro-monarchy counter-protest was
attended by 70,000 people.

Most Moroccans revere the monarch and months of protests demanding he give up
his executive powers have failed to win the sort of popular support that toppled
long-standing leaders earlier this year in Tunisia and Egypt. The moves by King
Mohammed, who heads the Arab world's longest-serving dynasty, are being closely
monitored by Gulf Arab monarchies which are also facing calls for reform.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 597


              Copyright 2011 Press Services & Documentation Bureau
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              690 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Larkana Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1759

LENGTH: 170  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Larkana Press Club by
people in favor of their demands on Thursday. According to details, the teachers
continued their protest demonstration against the EDO Education and DO Education
for transferring GSTA leaders on Thursday. A large number of the teachers of
different schools participated in the protest demonstration.

Addressing on the occasion, the leaders condemned the transfer of the GSTA
leader GM Abro and others and demanded of the concerned authorities to cancel
his transfer orders, otherwise they have threatened to extend their protest
circle. The Lady Health Supervisors, Lady Health Visitors and other lower staff
of the national program staged a protest demonstration for the issuance of their
withheld salaries of 3 months. The employees of different post offices on call
of the National Organization of the Postal Employees Pakistan (NOPE) recorded a
protest demonstration against the privatization of different branches of the
Postal Department.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              691 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1493

LENGTH: 308  words


Local people and different organizations staged separate protest demonstrations
in favor of their demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Friday.

According to reports, the relatives of an abducted student, Sheeba Shoro staged
a protest demonstration for the recovery of Sheeba. The activists of the
Jamaat-e-Islami staged a protest demonstration against target killings of their
leaders and activists. Addressing on the occasion, the protesting leaders
including Maulana Siddique-ur-Rehman and others strongly condemned target
killings of their leaders and activists in Karachi.

The residents of Latifabad under the leadership of Haji Mehrab Khan Laghari and
others while recording their protest demanded for the immediate removal of the
occupation of their agricultural land. Members of the Laghari community under
the leadership of Ghulam Muhammad while holding a protest demonstration demanded
for the immediate arrest of the killers of Muhammad Sharif Laghari.

A woman namely Hussna Parveen while recording her protest demonstration demanded
neutral inquiry of the murder of her son, Muhammad Ali Jamali, who was killed in
a road accident in Saudi Arabia a few days ago. The activists of PASBAN while
recording their protest demonstration under the leadership of Saleem Cheema,
Gulsher Ahmed and others demanded for the immediate release of Dr Aafia
Siddiqui.

The leader of the PML-F, Dr Shah Faisal Sanjrani while addressing a press
conference alleged that a few local influential persons of Sanghar including
Abdul Ghafar Sanjrani, Anwar Oad and Gul Muhammad Jat have occupied his 113
acres of agricultural land.

He further alleged that despite issuance of arrest warrants of the
abovementioned persons by the local court, the police have not arrested the
accused occupants. On the occasion, he demanded for the immediate arrest of
occupants.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              692 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

School protests: Twitters users debate the pros and cons

BYLINE: Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Education; News; Local

LENGTH: 143 words


Twitter protest posts

Twitter users kept a running commentary on their thoughts about Thursday's
protests and rallies. Here are some unedited excerpts:


     ·    KristiColleen: Did you know that today is the only day of the year
          that is also an action? March Fo(u)rth. Think about it.



     ·    AlisynCobb: I don't do protests at 7:30 am, sorry school. I wrote my
          letters to the governator and the president, though, so I'm covered.



     ·    jrellosayshello: Nationwide school protests. Mobilize or just don't go
          to class today!



     ·    RubenNews: Day of Action suggestion- students spend the day in school-
          parents represent your kids in protests/pickets/rallies- that would
          make a point



     ·    TristieD: Protests at CA schools today. Teachers @ my son's school
          wearing red. Wish I owned anything red.



     ·    barbaraca: Education protests today are making it difficult to, you
          guessed it, get my children to school.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              694 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1420

LENGTH: 252  words


Different protests were staged outside the Press Club Hyderabad by the people in
favour of their demands on Monday.

According to details, the members of the Hill Sand and Concrete Owners
Association under the leadership of their President Abbas Khan Mahsood staged a
protest demonstration for the arrest of the accused men involved in killing
their drivers.

The members of the Shaheed Bhutto Welfare Society staged a protest demonstration
against the arrest of their leader Amir Zardari. The members of the Sindh
Paramedical Staff Association under the leadership of Sanaullah Arain, Bashir
Panhwar and others staged a protest demonstration for restoration of the service
structure.

The workers of PPP PS-48 Hyderabad under the leadership of Sardar Atta Baloch,
Zeshan Ahmed, Faheem Qureshi and others recorded a protest demonstration in
favour of their demands. A women namely Sobia Qureshi, resident of Latifabad No.
2 staged a protest demonstration for the withdrawal of alleged fake cases and
provision of protection.

A man namely Syed Amir Ali Shah, resident of Ratodero, district Larkana
protested along with his family members for the arrest of the murderers of his
son namely Asad Ali Shah. A man namely Ahmed Khan Siyal, resident of Jati
district Thatta staged a protest against the actions of an influential landlord
of his area. The residents of Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration for the
restoration of the services of the suspended SHO of Nasim Nagar Police Station
and other police constables.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              695 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2007 Friday

Protest against students' deaths in north Sri Lanka - TamilNet

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report headlined "Vanni protest rallies condemn SLA killing of school
girls" published by Sri lankan TamilNet website on 30 November

All employees of government departments in Vanni wearing black arm bands staged
a work stoppage from 9:30 a.m. till 11:00 a.m. on Thursday [29 November] as a
mark of protest against the claymore attack carried out Tuesday morning by Sri
Lanka Army (SLA) Deep Penetration Unit (DPU) in which seven female students of
Iyankankulam school engaged in rural first aid service were killed.

Staffers at the Kilinochchi Zonal Education office headed by T.Kurukularajah,
Director of Education, also staged a similar protest.

Students in Vanni schools, wearing black bands, also joined in the district-wide
work stoppage, staging protest rallies at various locations and burning effigies
of Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapakse.

The students and teaching staff of Kilinochchi St.Theresa Girls School took part
in a protest march from the school premises carrying the effigy of Rajapakse up
to Karadippoakku junction where they set fire to the effigy. A similar protest
rally was organized by the students of Kilinochchi Central and Kilinochchi
Madhya Maha Vidyalayam, according to student leaders in Kilinochchi.

Educational activities were suspended till noon at the three schools in the area
during the protest rally.

A number of protest marches were held on Thursday by the educational community
in Mullaiththeevu district, sources said.

Meanwhile, in a protest rally organized by the Federation of students in
Akkaraayan Zone Wednesday morning, hundreds of students from Akkaraayan Madhya
Vidyalayam, shouting slogans, marched up to Ampalapperumaa'l junction where they
burnt the effigy of Rajapakse. The students of all the schools in Maangku'lam
Education Zone took part in a joint protest march Wednesday morning along
Maangku'lam main road. The protest march continued up to Thunukkai Educational
Zone, where a meeting to condemn the killing was held presided by Theevarajan, a
GCE Advanced Level student.

Mr.Pangayatchelvan, Principal of Maangku'lam Madhya Vidyalayam and
M.Theivendiram, Thu'nukkaay Zonal Director of Education, spoke condemning the
targeting of school children. Mr Theivendiram said the killings have had severe
psychological impact to the school children in Vanni.

At the end of the rally a report condemning the bombing was handed over to
Mr.Theivendiram, Thunukkaay Zonal Director of Education, to be forwarded to the
Government of Sri Lanka through Mullaiththeevu District Secretary.

Source: TamilNet website in English 30 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              696 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Times (Perth, Australia)

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                 Metro Edition

School groups in protest marches

SECTION: Pg. 88

LENGTH: 224  words


A WEEK-LONG campaign of mayhem involving every major protest group in Sydney
will cause mass CBD disruption during next month's APEC summit.

APEC organisers are bracing for protests from a range of radical groups that are
also recruiting high school students to take part.

The groups that will clog up Sydney for 11 days leading up to and during the
summit include protest groups Resistance and the Socialist Alliance, security
planning documents reveal.

September 7 and 8 -- the peak of APEC leaders' week -- have emerged as the most
popular for protest groups.

On September 8 at least 15,000 protesters are expected to clog the CBD. The
biggest protest, at 10am on that day, is expected to be the 10,000-strong Stop
Bush Stop Howard rally and march.

The Vietnamese community is also staging a protest on that day in the same area.

Students from at least five high schools will also walk out of school on
September 5 for a protest, which is being organised by student group Resistance.

Organiser Simon Cunich said that hundreds of students -- possibly thousands --
were

expected to take part.

Assistant Commissioner Dave Owens, who is heading the police APEC response, said
school students who attended protests put themselves at risk.

''They might get caught up in a violent protest but, as police, we cannot
guarantee their safety if they do,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: SDT


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              697 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            February 19, 2007 Monday

Cheney to face protests during visit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 289  words


THE United States is bracing for protests as its increasingly unpopular
vice-president, Dick Cheney, heads to Australia this week.

Mr Cheney's trip Down Under -- part of a wider visit that also takes in Japan
and Guam -- comes at a time of growing unease in Australia over the plight of
Australian terror suspect David Hicks and the continuing unpopularity of the war
in Iraq.

Details of the visit are being tightly held by the Government but that is
unlikely to prevent anti-war groups mobilising their forces to send a message to
Mr Cheney, who is closely identified with the US-led invasion of Iraq.

The Stop the War Coalition is planning a rally at Sydney's Town Hall on
Thursday, the day the Vice-President arrives in Australia.

A massive protest is also being organised outside the Shangri-La Hotel in the
Sydney CBD, where Mr Cheney will give a major speech on Australian-US relations
on Friday at an invitation-only address to the Australian-American Leadership
Dialogue.

The US is expecting protests and accepts that is all part of the freedom of
speech that both nations embrace.

''In political life . . . there is a great deal of respect for the freedom of
speech that involves protests,'' US ambassador Robert McCallum said.

''(We accept them) as long as they are peaceful protests and we certainly
anticipate the protests will be peaceful protests here in Australia.''

Mr Cheney's five-day visit to Australia will coincide with the sitting of
Parliament on February 25 and 26.

He is due to meet Prime Minister John Howard in Sydney on Saturday.

Mr Howard has promised to use the meeting to tell Mr Cheney that Australia is
angry that Hicks has been held at the US military prison in Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba for five years without trial.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              698 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Contra Costa Times

                     March 18, 2004 Thursday FINAL EDITION

PROTESTS TO MARK WAR ANNIVERSARY

BYLINE: RICARDO SANCHEZ JR., TIMES STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 377 words


Memorial services, peace vigils, a massive protest and a work stoppage will mark
the one-year anniversary of the U.S.-Iraqi war Friday and Saturday.

At least 200 U.S. cities and 50 countries will hold similar protests, said
Andrea Buffa, a spokeswoman for Global Exchange Peace Campaign and United for
Peace and Justice.

"It's so important to send a message on the one-year anniversary of the war that
the attack on Iraq was a huge tragedy that harmed thousands of innocent people
and made the world less safe," said Buffa.

The events begin Friday morning with a march and protest in San Francisco's
Financial District.

The biggest demonstration is expected Saturday, when United for Peace and
Justice, an anti-war coalition that formed in October 2002, has called for a
"global day of action." The same day, longshoremen in San Francisco plan to stop
work to protest the war, Buffa said.

Friday events include:

Justin Herman Plaza, San Francisco, 7 a.m., protest and "mass nonviolent direct
action."

Golden Gate Lutheran Church, 601 Dolores St., San Francisco, 5 p.m., interfaith
procession and memorial service.

Unitarian Universalist Church, 55 Eckley Lane, Walnut Creek, 7 p.m., prayer
service and mediation in memory of war casualties.

Oakland Federal Building, 1301 Clay St., 11 a.m., rally and protest to remember
the casualties on both sides from combat and continuing violence in Iraq.
Speakers include military family members who are against the war.

On Saturday:

The International Longshore and Warehouse Union, Local 10, representing port
workers in the Bay Area, have voted to shut down San Francisco Bay ports to
protest the war and occupation of Iraq.

Dolores Park, San Francisco, 11 a.m., march begins to Civic Center for 1 p.m.
rally.

Organizers expect thousands of people to participate Saturday but do not expect
the march to be as large as last year's protests, when traffic and freeway
entrances were blocked and many arrests were made.

"There's no way that the protests this year could compare to the protests last
Feb. 15," Buffa said. "That was a unique moment in time, when millions of people
around the globe were compelled by the idea that they might be able to actually
stop a war before it started."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              700 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                           April 10, 2002, Wednesday

Youngster adds voice to Palestine protest

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 5; NEWS

LENGTH: 94 words


Henna Wright, five, and her father, Colin, both from Auckland, protest at the
American Consulate in Auckland. About 200 Palestinians and supporters gathered
for the peaceful protest over the Israeli occupation of Palestine. Israeli
pull-out, page 15

--------------------

CAPTION:

PHOTO: DOMINION Henna Wright, five, and her father, Colin, both from Auckland,
protest at the American Consulate in Auckland. About 200 Palestinians and
supporters gathered for the peaceful protest over the Israeli occupation of
Palestine. Israeli pull-out, page 15

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Fairfax New Zealand


                              701 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             April 17, 2015 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE: Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 824

LENGTH: 321  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
HDA employees recorded a protest demonstration under the leadership of Aslam
Abbasi, Insaf Ali Lasahri and others for the issuance of their withheld salaries
of last eight months. The residents of the Peon Colony continued their protest
demonstration against the Police and local administration for bulldozing their
homes during the anti-encroachment campaign. They added that the concerned
authorities have bulldozed their legal homes. On the occasion, they demanded of
the Sindh CM to take notice of the matter.

The contract based employees of the NBP Hyderabad region staged a protest
demonstration for the regularization of their services. The Revenue Department
employees association continued protest demonstration for the third consecutive
day against the Commissioner Karachi and caretaker Senior Member of the Board of
Revenue Shoaib Siddiqui. Syed Sardar Ali Shah told media men that Shoaib
Siddiqui has failed in resolving the problems of the Revenue Department
employees. He is also not interested in promoting the senior employees according
to their seniority level.

The members of the Sugar Mills Workers Association recorded a protest
demonstration against non provision of wages to them according the governments
orders. The protestors said that the government has announced to provide Rs
12,000 to the laborers but the mills owners are providing only Rs 7,000 to the
laborers due to which they are facing many hardships. On the occasion, they
demanded of the Sindh CM to take notice of the matter, otherwise they have
threatened to accelerate their protest circle. The residents of Nangarparkar
staged a protest demonstration for arrest of Rasi Neeto, Bhano Bai and Parshu
Mals murderers. All these minority persons were killed in Nangarparkar one week
ago.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              702 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Violence is 'the language we speak'

BYLINE: Shenaaz Jamal; Olebogeng Molatlhwa

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 401 words


VIOLENT protest is not only an instrument for extracting concessions from the
government - it is part of a culture inherited from the past, an analyst said
yesterday.
 "Show me a protest in South Africa that does not have violence, be it by a
political party, a community or union," challenged political analyst Ralph
Mathekga.


 "Violence in protests is inherited from the past. South Africa is a very
violent country. We have not moved on from the past. Violence is the language we
speak. We have not done any work to rid ourselves of that past."
 The house of Randfontein mayor Sylvia Thebenare was set alight yesterday after
a service-delivery protest in the West Rand town.
  Two of Thebenare's cars were set ablaze.
 The municipality's offices and a library were also set on fire.
 Violent protests also broke out in Majakaneng, in Brits, North West, with
residents demanding water.
 Karen Heese, of Municipal IQ, said yesterday that violent protests had reached
"crisis level".
 "Service-delivery protests are becoming increasingly violent. At the root is a
breakdown in trust between local governments and many communities.
 "Violent protest is seen as the most effective way of airing grievances," said
Heese.
 "Communities are escalating their grievances to higher political levels by
means of violent protests.
  "Communities begin protesting for not receiving the services they believe they
should be receiving and this is exacerbated where their grievances are not
responded to by local government."
 But Mathekga disagreed, arguing that, in some instances, communities resorted
to violence without first talking to their local authority.
 "In some protests, even before the violence, there is no sign of a softer
approach; a memorandum of grievances or evidence of having tried to engage with
the state. And the government itself has a tendency of not responding well to
grievances," he said.
 Heese said the indications were that protests would remain a feature of
community interaction with the state because "communities are starting to become
aware of what the municipalities are failing to do in terms of service
delivery".
 WELL-SPRUNG: A looter makes off with a bed during a recent service-delivery
protest in Mohlakeng, west of Johannesburg. A political analyst says communities
often do not bother to communicate with their local authority before going on a
rampage
 Picture: SIPHIWE SIBEKO/REUTERS

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              703 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday

BRIEF: School lessons suspended in some Turkish provinces due to protests

BYLINE: Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words


Oct. 08--The school lessons were suspended in the Turkish provinces of
Diyarbakir, Hakkari, Van and Batman in connection with the protests in some
provinces of the country, the Turkish Kanal 7 TV channel reported Oct. 8.

The lessons in these provinces were suspended for one day.

In early October the Kurds-populated Syrian town of Kobani, was taken under
control by the IS. The move triggered mass protests among the Kurds in
Diyarbakir, Mardin, Siirt, Mus, Van and Batman provinces of Turkey. Some 15
people were killed during the protests. Following the protests, a curfew was
declared in the provinces of Diyarbakir, Mardin, Siirt, Mus, Van, Batman.

Moreover, real estate of the municipalities and private facilities was greatly
damaged as a result of the protests in several Turkish provinces. Kurdish
population of the provinces and supporters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)
are mainly involved in the protests.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20141008-1AZ-BRF-School-lessons-suspended-in-some-Turkish-provinces-due-to-
protests-1008-20141008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              704 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Agerpres, Bucharest, Romania

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Tatars protest Crimea aggression in front of Russian Federation Consulate
General in Constanta

BYLINE: Agerpres, Bucharest, Romania

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


March 05--BUCHAREST -- Over 100 Romanian ethnic Tatars on Wednesday staged a
one-hour protest in front of the Russian Federation's Consulate General in
Constanta (country south-east), denouncing Russia's interventionist policy in
the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.

The leader of the protesters Sali Negiat, a former deputy of the Democratic
Union of Turkish-Muslim Tartars of Romania (UDTTMR) and Undersecretary of State
for national minorities, told AGERPRES that the action of protest is organized
by a civic and democratic committee of the Romanian Tatars in sign of solidarity
with the 400,000 Crimean Tatars who want to keep their ethnic identity and
national being within the boundaries of the Republic of Ukraine, which embarked
on the path of European democracy.

'We stand by the Crimean Tatars, our protest takes place thanks to the
democratic regulations of a European country. In 1917, the first Turkic-language
Republic of the former Tsarist Empire was established in the Crimean Peninsula
and therefore, we now considered that we should stand up against Russia's gross
aggression and intervention in Ukraine. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea must
have a European track and this can be achieved only as part of Ukraine,' said
Sali Negiat.

During the protest, the demonstrators waved flags of the Crimean Tatars,
displaying also boards and banners that read in English, Romanian and Russian:
'Putin, get out of Crimea', 'Crimea -- the Tatars' Homeland,' or 'NO to
Russians'. The protesters also chanted anti-Putin and anti-Russian slogans.

During the protest, the anthem of the Crimean Tatars was also sung, and a
written protest was lodged with the Consulate General at the end of the
demonstration.

Sali Negiat announced that the actions of protest will continue with a march of
the Tatars against Russian actions in Crimea, to be organised in Bucharest along
the route between the Embassy of Ukraine and the Embassy of the Russian
Federation.

About 30,000 Tatars live in Romania, many of them having their ancestral roots
in Crimea and also having relatives there.

___ (c)2014 Agerpres, Bucharest, Romania Visit Agerpres, Bucharest, Romania at
www1.agerpres.ro/english Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140305-1AR-Tatars-protest
-Crimea-aggression-in-front-of-Russian-Federation-Consulate-General-in-Constanta
-0305-20140305

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AR


                                 Copyright 2014


                              705 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Tear gas used on protesters clashing in Egyptian capital

BYLINE: cairo

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 224 words


Egyptian police have used tear gas to end clashes in Cairo between supporters
and opponents of ousted president Mohamed Mursi.

Supporters of Islamist Mr Mursi have been staging protests almost daily in Egypt
since the army deposed him on July 3 in response to mass protests against him.

Yesterday's clashes in Cairo took place in the upmarket district of Mohandeseen,
when a march by Muslim Brotherhood supporters came face-to-face with an opposing
crowd.

The Mursi supporters were holding placards showing the four-finger logo of
solidarity with those killed when security forces razed pro-Mursi protest camps
in Cairo last August.

They chanted "down, down with military rule!"

Similar pro-Brotherhood protests were staged in [#x2028]other parts of Cairo
along with the Suez Canal cities of Suez and Port Said. Most set off from
mosques after yesterday's noon prayers.

The police arrested eight pro-Brotherhood protesters in Cairo for "inciting
riots",  according to the state run news agency Al-Ahram.

Two weeks ago a new [#x2028]law was promulgated that banned protests near or
­originating from places of worship, and made it compulsory to seek Interior
Ministry permission for protests.

A ministry official said no such request had been filed for yesterday's
protests.

About 180 Brotherhood protesters were arrested during similar protests on Friday
of last week.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION: A new law has been passed to ban some protests.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              706 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday

Turkish officials say 27 foreigners detained over protests

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Twenty-Seven Foreigners Detained in Gezi Park Protests
Across Turkey"]

ANKARA (AA) - Twenty-seven foreigners were detained in Taksim Gezi Park protests
across Turkey while 21 others were released as anti-government protests
continued for the second week.

Officials said nationals of Iran, Russia, France, Britain, Greece, and Canada
were detained within the scope of Istanbul's Taksim protests.

Among those detained in Turkish provinces of Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir, 5 were
reported to be journalists

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 17 Jun
13

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              707 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday

Willie Frazer was not at protest'

LENGTH: 274  words


A supporter of Willie Frazer has said he had not attended a protest last night,
just before he was arrested.

The PSNI said they arrested a 52-year-old man on suspicion of breach of bail
conditions at around 19:35 on Monday 17 June in the Portadown area.

Pastor Halliday, director of victims group FAIR, said a protest had been
organised at the Maze Prison for 7.30pm yesterday but that Mr Frazer had left
before it had begun.

"He was arrested 30 minutes away from the protest. He arrived at the Maze at
6.30pm when there was no protest and then he left. He was there to take some
photographs and to meet a few friends and wish them them well for the protest.
He was arrested in Portadown just as the protest began at 7.30pm."

Plans to build a Peace Centre at the former prison site have caused deep
controversy, with many unionists fearing it could become "a shrine" to IRA
hunger strikers, a claim which the DUP strongly reject.

Mr Frazer faces six charges linked to taking part in protests over the change of
policy over the flying of the Union flag from Belfast City Hall, as well as
possession of a taser gun which was found by police in his home.

The News Letter previously reported that his bail conditions were that he must
live at his home in Markethill, is prohibited from posting on social networking
webs before or after flag protests, is not allowed within two miles of any
protest, demonstration or procession and must not attend any of these and that
he must report to a police station at a set time each week.

The bail conditions were to last for as long as he is facing a number of
charges.

Mr Frazer is appearing in court this morning.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL tablet


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              709 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

Police ready for two city protest marches

BYLINE: Vince Yallop

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 337 words


The officer organising the policing of two demonstrations in Norwich on Saturday
said yesterday that the force had prepared for "many eventualities".

Roads and car parks in the city centre will shut as the English Defence League
(EDL) and a  counter demonstration march on City Hall.



The controversial EDL are coming to the city to protest at a decision by the
city council to ban a preacher from a stall in Hay Hill for  allegedly promoting
"hate motivated" leaflets.

In response to the march a group called We Are Norwich, formed by politicians
and trade unions,  has organised a counter demonstration.

Amid fears the protest could descend into violence, Norwich District Commander,
Superintendent Paul Sanford, said: "While there  is no indication that these
will  be anything other than peaceful protests, we are aware of and understand
the concerns that a small number of people within the local community have
raised around these protests.

"We are very aware these protest have resulted in disorder elsewhere.

"The police have been working with organisers for both protests.

"Our position at the outset will be to support peaceful protest but we will have
the capability to change that policing style.

"The police are planning for many eventualities."

Businesses along the routes have been sent leaflets by police warning them of
the march, but they have  not been told to shut.

The Forum car park will close temporarily while protesters march past and there
will also be road closures in the city centre during the day.

The EDL will gather at Castle Gardens, while the counter  protesters will meet
at Chapelfield Gardens at 11am, before heading to city hall.

Protesters will then head back along the same routes they came in.

Supt Sandford added: "There is a legal right to peaceful protest in this country
and we are committed to supporting lawful protest.

"The safety of those involved and of the public in general is our primary
concern and there will be a substantial and visible police presence in place to
support this."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              710 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Evening News (Norwich)

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

We're ready for EDL protests, say police

BYLINE: Vince Yallop

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 352 words


The officer organising the policing of two demonstrations in Norwich on Saturday
said the force had prepared for "many eventualities".

Roads and car parks in the city centre will shut as the English Defence League
(EDL) and a counter demonstration march on City Hall.



The controversial EDL are coming to the city to protest at a decision by the
city council to ban a preacher from a stall in Hay Hill, for allegedly promoting
"hate motivated" leaflets.

In response to the march, a group called We Are Norwich, formed by politicians
and trade unions, have organised a counter demonstration.

Amid fears the protest could descend into violence, Norwich District Commander,
Superintendent Paul Sanford, right, said: "While there is no indication that
these will be anything other than peaceful protests, we are aware of and
understand the concerns that a small number of people within the local community
have raised around these protests.

"We are very aware that these protests have resulted in disorder elsewhere.

"The police have been working with organisers for both protests.

"Our position at the outset will be to support peaceful protest, but we will
have the capability to change that policing style.

"The police are planning for many eventualities."

Businesses along the routes have been sent leaflets by police warning them of
the march, but they have not been told to shut.

The Forum car park will close temporarily while protesters march past and there
will also be road closures in the city centre during the day.

The EDL will gather at Castle Gardens, while the counter protesters will meet at
Chapelfield Gardens at 11am, before heading to City Hall. Protesters will then
head back along the same routes they came in.

Supt Sandford added: "There is a legal right to peaceful protest in this country
and we are committed to supporting lawful protest.

"The safety of those involved and of the public in general is our primary
concern and there will be a substantial and visible police presence in place to
support this."

*Anyone with concerns or queries can email Supt Sanford at
communications@norfolk.pnn.police.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              711 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 313

LENGTH: 224  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Friday. According to details, the activists
of Sindh Peoples' Students Federation (SPSF) including Lala Rizwan Mughal,
Shabbir Palari, Shahid Shaikh and others staged a protest demonstration against
the actions of the Bhirya Police of Naushehro Feroze. PST test passed candidates
led by Ali Raza Larik. Nazir Almani, and others recorded a protest demonstration
for the issuance of offer letters to them.

The members of Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association including Sharif Palari,
Muhammad Ali Chandio and others protested in favor of their demands. A man
namely Muhammad Mitthal Khoso, resident of Mehar staged a protest demonstration
against the alleged occupation of his agricultural land by Achar Khoso and Gul
Hassan Khoso. The activists of JSQM led by Mustafa Panhwar and others recorded a
protest demonstration for arrest of Late Majid Tunio's murderers. The activists
of the Sindh Taraqi Pasand Party led by Hyder Shahani and others took out a
protest rally against the Zulfikarabad Project. The rally after marching through
various routes culminated outside the local press club.

Meanwhile, the residents of Hala Naka, Saima Plaza and UC-16 staged protest
demonstration against the poor sanitary system in their areas.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              713 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday

Saudis rally against Riyadh suppression of protests - Lebanese Hezbollah TV

LENGTH: 271 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 3 March

[Unattributed report: "Saudis Rally Against Riyadh Suppression of Protests"]

Saudis have staged a protest rally in the eastern town of Rabiyia to condemn
Riyadh's suppression of anti-government demonstrations.

The demonstrators expressed solidarity with the victims' of government crackdown
on protests in the Eastern Province of the country.

Qatif and Awamiyah have been the centres of anti-government protests in the
oil-rich region since last year, but despite a violent crackdown on
demonstrations there, it seems that protests are now spreading to other towns
and cities in the province.

Saudi troops have arrested at least 25 demonstrators over the past week. They
were detained without warrant and taken to unknown locations. Several
demonstrators have been killed and dozens of activists have been arrested since
the beginning of protests in the region.

Saudis have held peaceful demonstrations in Eastern Province since February last
year on an almost regular basis, demanding reforms, freedom of expression,
social justice and the release of political prisoners.

Protesters also want an end to economic and religious discrimination against the
oil-rich region.

Last week, protest rallies were held across the province to demand the
prosecution of those who opened fire on demonstrators one week earlier. Saudi
security forces broke up the rallies using force and arrested several
demonstrators.

Riyadh has intensified its crackdown on protesters since the beginning of 2012

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1730 gmt 3 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday

Bryce Edwards: Political round-up: February 7

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 811 words


Having talked up the possibility of conflict at Waitangi for a week,
commentators can"t seem to agree whether the outcome was violent and abusive or
the usual ritualised dissent. Although Waitangi Day itself was very peaceful and
cordial, the day before was far noisier. Stuff reports that tensions were
highest when 200 protestors marched towards the flagpole to raise the Tino
Rangatiratanga flag, but a symbolic protest action was negotiated and this
allowed the protest to end peacefully - see: Waitangi flagpole protest ends
quietly. In the end it seems there was a lot of noise, some name calling and a
bit of pushing and shoving. John Key left without speaking after being drowned
out by protestors, who were in possession of megaphones whereas Key was not.
While some present would have been annoyed or offended, it seemed pretty tame
compared to political protests around the world and even previous Waitangi Day
protests.

Part of the Waitangi ritual is the post-protest angst, particularly as the day
is the nearest thing we have to a commemoration of nationhood. Richard Long and
Morgan Godfery have had enough, with Long describing it as an "annual farce" and
calling for a separate national day - see Long"s Farce and friction no way for
NZ to celebrate. Godfery says that some of the protest behaviour - particularly
the name calling - was appalling, and declares that "the protest generation is
over" - see Godfery"s On the farcical scenes at Waitangi and the possibility of
NZ Day.

There are plenty who say we should take it all in our stride and even celebrate
the protests as part of our democratic traditions. The best of these are Tim
Watkin"s Happy Waitangi Day (and why protest is good for us), Jessica Mutch"s
Protests are part of Waitangi and Matt McCarten"s Huffing and puffing all part
of Waitangi saga.

The main cause of tension this year was the friction over the Treaty and asset
sales. The Maori Party is continuing to exert pressure on National and
encouraging others to take legal action - see: Flavell calls for Iwi to go to
Court on Section 9. Peter Wilson at TV3 says the Maori Party has been forced
into this "breathtaking overreaction" for political survival - see: Maori
Party"s vulnerability exposed. Duncan Garner agrees and says that it"s clear
that Sharples and Turia are not going to split from the Government but are in a
no-win situation and appear to be "winding down the clock on their party" - see:
Garner"s blog post, Why the Maori Party is dying. The Maori Party desperately
need a win on this, although they will have to be careful not to build up
expectations that they can"t deliver on. If the end result is simply a better
deal for iwi corporates wanting to buy shares then the party will leave itself
wide open for attack.

Nanaia Mahuta at Red Alert illustrates the complexity of the issue, using the
example of water consents for the Waikato River and existing agreements
regarding the Huntly power station - see: No Room for Dithering on Treaty of
Waitangi. It"s not just Maori groups who are nervous. As the ODT reports, other
river users such as irrigators are nervous as to how the sales may affect their
water rights in future - see: Elizabeth Soal"s opinion piece Downstream effects
serious.

Gordon Campbell wonders why the Treaty obligations have become such a problem
when New Zealand has been requiring Treaty compliance from foreign investors
under WTO rules for nearly 20 years. He fears that any reduction of the
obligations for the asset sales programme may have to be offered to future
foreign investors as well - see: On the Maori response to the SOE asset sales.

John Armstrong reports that the Section 9 controversy may only be the start of
National"s problems with the asset sales. - see: Private hands will steer
mixed-model assets. He says that National sold the policy as if nothing would
change except some minority share holding but that, in fact, state control of
the new entities will be "a myth". When the public discovers the fundamental
change, Armstrong says National will find it difficult to rebut claims it was
always their intention to sell the assets completely.

Amidst all the claims of xenophobia, racism and treachery over land sales to
foreigners, Susan Edmunds has a balanced and thoughtful article on the issue -
see: Land grab: All white by us. For more on this see Fran O"Sullivan"s
Xenophobia over Crafar sale galling and Stuff"s Who is really buying New
Zealand?

Finally, Simon Collins has a good series on inequality in Auckland, using both
personal stories and in-depth analysis to examine this issue from different
angles. Yesterday he dealt with the widening wealth gap (see: Mind the widening
gap ... a tale of two cities) and today he looks at tax and benefits,
particularly in comparison to Australia (see: Divided Auckland: NZ tax on rich
among lowest in the world).

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              715 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday

JI and JD protest against MFN award to India

BYLINE:  Staff Report

SECTION: Vol. II No. 144

LENGTH: 212  words


The Jamaat-i-Islami (JI) held protests in Lahore, Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar,
Islamabad, Multan and Peshawar on Friday against the Federal Cabinet's decision
to grant Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status to India.

Clerics spoke against the decision in their Friday address and opposed the
decision in protests were held after Friday prayers.

The JI demanded a ban on trade with India. Speaking at Mansoora, JI chief
Munawar Hasan said the people must oppose the move and begin a movement against
the US. He said while Commerce Secretaries had finalised the trade list, Prime
Minister (PM) Gilani was deceiving people that no decision was taken. Addressing
a protest at Multan Road near Mansoora, JI Secretary General Liaquat Baloch said
people will not accept the government's decision. The protest outside the
National Press Club Islamabad was addressed by JI Islamabad chief Mian Muhammad
Aslam. A protest outside Masjid al-Ikhwan in Karachi was addressed by Sindh
chief Asadullah Bhutto. Protest rallies were also held at Multan, Peshawar and
Quetta.

Seperately, Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JD) organised a protest on the matter at Chauburgi
Lahore in which they burnt Indian flags and chanted slogans against India. The
JD warned it would stage a sit-in at Wagha border to stop Indian trade.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Protest in Pakistan's Lahore against arrest of party activists

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report headlined "ST protests for release of party leaders" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 10 October

Lahore: Sunni Tehrik on Sunday [9 October] staged a protest demonstration at
Lahore Press Club demanding the immediate release of the held party leaders and
workers.

According to a press release protest demonstrations have also been staged at all
the major cities including Karachi, Peshawar, Quetta, Islamabad, Multan and
Faisalabad.

The protestors have demanded the government to 'end the illegal detention' of
their central leader Shahid Ghori and other party workers.

They warned that protests would continue across the country until the release of
Shahid Ghori.

The protestors held responsible MQM [Muttahida Quami Movement], PPP [Pakistan
People's Party] and ANP [Awami National Party] for the unrest and terrorism in
Karachi. The government and its friendly opposition were making people fools and
playing havoc with the lives of the innocent people by backing terrorism in the
port city, they blamed. They said the government handed over the biggest city of
the country in the hands of the killers and extortionists.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 10 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              717 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday

Bahrainis protest harsh sentences against opposition members - Al-Jazeera

LENGTH: 424 words


Doha-based Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 0545 gmt on 1
October carried following announcer-read report: "Thousands of Bahrainis have
gathered at a large yard in Al-Ghuriyah village, west of Manama, and raised the
Bahraini flag and banners demanding democracy. The gathering came after Bahraini
Shi'i clerics had warned that the Bahraini authorities had gone too far when
they issued what they called harsh sentences against oppositionists - in
reference to verdicts issued by a Bahraini court against eight leading
oppositionists who were convicted of involvement in unrest in the country in
June.

Immediately afterward, the channel carried a live telephone interview with
former Bahraini MP Abd Ali Muhammad Hasan, from Manama. Speaking of the
Al-Ghuriyah protests, Hasan said: "Protests and sit-ins are ongoing in Bahrain,
and the cycle of violence continues to grow. We hoped that the cycle of violence
would come to an end, yet it continues to grow, especially since there is a
political tendency towards making the situation more tense." He added that what
caused more tension were the sentences issued by a court martial, noting that
the opposition will continue to stage protests.

Speaking of the right to protest, Hasan said that "the Bahraini Constitution
ensures the right to peaceful protest, and all constitutions ensure the right of
citizens to express their opinion in a peaceful manner," noting that concerned
parties should hold dialogue.

At 0550 gmt, the channel carried a live telephone interview with Bahraini writer
and MP Samirah Rajab, from Manama. Commenting on the citizens' right to protest,
Rajab said: "Bahraini law ensures the people's right to assemble and stage
protests, and everyone enjoys this right equally. However, when these practices
turn into violence - terrorizing people inside shopping malls and committing
acts of violence at vital trade areas, such practices should be banned." When
told that the protesters insist that their protests are peaceful, Rajab said:
"What they say are complete lies. The so-called February revolution relied
heavily on lies."

Speaking of the sentences issued by a Bahraini court against oppositionists,
Rajab said: "The sentences were issued after long trials. Those trials took into
consideration confessions and testimonies made by all parties, as well as
documents, pieces of evidence, and photos. There was no court martial." She
added that those who were sentenced were tried before civil courts.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 0545 gmt 1 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              718 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday

Protesters have no plans to fold Rothschild tents;
Previous reports said that they would dismantle the tent site this week.

BYLINE: Globes correspondent

LENGTH: 185 words


Rothschild tent protest organizers do not intend to pack up the tents that have
adorned the boulevard since July. Previous reports said that they would
dismantle the tent site this week.

Euphoria prevails among protest leaders following last night's successful
protest at Kikar Hamedina in Tel Aviv. However, some of the leaders said this
morning that, "We are not packing up, not on Rothschild. We are continuing the
protest." The Student Union, on the other hand, announced that it would
dismantle its section of the encampment.

No decision has been taken about upcoming steps in protest activity. The protest
leaders are waiting for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the other
ministers' announcement following the weekly cabinet meeting before deciding if
they will hold protests and rallies on Saturday night.

Netanyahu and the ministers have already begun the meeting, and a first reaction
to last night's 400,000 person display of power is expected soon.

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
September 4, 2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              719 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 151

LENGTH: 213  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Friday.

According to details, the activists of the JUI (F) district Hyderabad chapter
under the leadership of Maulana Taj M. Nahyoon, Maulana Azam and others staged a
protest demonstration against the attack on Maulana Fazl-ur-Rahman.

The people of the Oad community under the leadership of Arab Oad and others
staged a protest demonstration against the owner of brick-kiln, Nazar Pathan
against the detention of their family members.

A man namely, Khair M. Chohan, a resident of Kotri staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of his son, Sadiq Chohan. The
members of the HAC under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari and others staged a
protest demonstration against the illegal lease of lands of talukla Latifabad to
the Habib Group of Companies.

The members of the Mehran Welfare Organization Tando Qaisar staged a protest
demonstration against poor performance of the sanitary staff and filth in their
area. The activists of the Jeay Sindh Students Federation (JSSF) Hyderabad under
the leadership of Zain Jhatiyal and others staged a protest demonstration
against registration of the cases on their leaders, Zohaib Qureshi and Munir
Vistro.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              720 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 122

LENGTH: 200  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday.

According to details, an elderly woman namely Bashiran w/o Late Abdul Ghani,
resident of Liaquat Colony staged a protest demonstration against the actions of
her sons namely Farooq and Muhammad Ahmed. The activists of a local social
welfare organization under the leadership of Zulfiqar Qadri, Mustafa Baloch,
Zulfiqar Shah, Dr Dodo Maheri and others staged a protest demonstration against
the killing of Federal Minister for Minorities Shahbaz Bhatti. The members of
the Sindh Animal Husbandry Employees Association staged a protest demonstration
against the illegal appointments in the Livestock Department. The contract based
teachers working under the ESRA Project staged a protest demonstration for the
regularization of their services. A sacked disabled employee of the Revenue
Department Mashooq Ali s/o Mehrab Khan Panhwar continued his protest
demonstration for the reinstatement of his service. The people of the Christian
community, residents of different areas recorded a protest demonstration against
the killing of Federal Minister for Minorities Shahbaz Bhatti.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              721 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 119

LENGTH: 192  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people outside the Hyderabad
Press Club in favor of their demands on Monday.  According to details, the
members of Sindh Animal Husbandry Ministerial Employees Association under the
leadership of Muhammad Jameel Baloch, Abdul Samad Qureshi and others staged a
protest demonstration against the corruption and fake appointments in their
department. A man namely Shokat Khaskheli, resident of Hala, staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of his abducted children.

A woman namely Jamshed Pathan, resident of Indus Pahari along with her family
members staged a protest demonstration for the release of her son Anwar Zeb from
PS Site. A woman namely Zulekhan wife of Hashim Talpur, resident of Sehrish
Nagar Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration against the occupation of her
agriculture land. A social worker comrade Anwar Mallah staged a protest
demonstration against the open sale of drugs in his town. The members of All
Sindh Education Department Lower Staff Association under the leadership of
Fakeer Chang, Rafique Qureshi and others staged a protest demonstration in favor
of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              722 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 21, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1773

LENGTH: 408  words


Different   protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
activists of the Jamiat Talba Arabia Hyderabad under the leadership of Maulana
Abdul Waheed Qureshi, Rashid Nasim and others staged a protest demonstration
against the proposed amendments in the blasphemy law.

A man namely Nizamuddin Junejo, resident of Shikarpur staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of his brother Muhammad Ali Junejo.
A man namely Khan Muhammad Panhwar, resident of district Dadu staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of his missing son namely Khadim Ali Panhwar. A
widow namely Amina Bibi w/o Late Abdul Muqeem Shah staged a protest
demonstration for the removal of occupation of her agricultural lands.

A man namely Zahoor Ahmed Rahu, resident of village Shahmir Rahu near New
Saeedabad district Matiari staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of
his abducted sister Najma Rahu. The people of the Kachhi community under the
leadership of Veeru Kachi, Ramchand Kachi and other residents of Kunri staged a
protest demonstration for the arrest of the killers of their community youth
Teju Kachi.

The leaders of the Rehabilitation of Flood Affectees Sindh Tehreek under the
leadership of Abdul Hafeez Jataoi, Ali Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest
demonstration for the immediate rehabilitation of the IDPs of Sindh. Flood
affectees residing in the relief camps of Noonari village Hyderabad under the
leadership of Abdul Hadi Rind, Manzoor Gadehi and others staged a protest
demonstration against the non provision of facilities to them.

The members of the Tanzeem Falah-o-Bahbood for Handicapped persons under the
leadership of Nadeem Ahmed Shaikh, Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of jobs to the disabled persons. The workers of
PPP Bano chapter of district Thatta under the leadership of Mushtaq Manganhar,
Muhammad Eisa Bhatti and others staged a protest demonstration against the local
party leadership.

The members of the Pakistan Veterinary Medical Association under the leadership
of Dr. Bakhshal Khan Thalo, Dr Mubarak Jatoi and others staged a protest
demonstration for the acceptance of their demands. The members of the Hyderabad
Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and
others continued their protest demonstration against the Habib Group.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              723 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Different protest demonstrations staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1548

LENGTH: 315  words


Different people staged protest demonstrations outside the Hyderabad Press Club
on Thursday in favour of their demands. According to details, the members of the
All Pakistan Clerk Association under the leadership of SM Bhurgari Ashraf Bozai
and others staged a protest demonstration in the favour of their demands.

The people of Lund community, residents of Kaloi village district Tharparkar
under the leadership of Ahmed Ali Lund, Begum Lund and others staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of killers of Siddique Lund. The members of PTA and
GSTA district Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of Zaheer Mirza and others
staged a protest demonstration in favour of their demands.

The people of Chandio community under the leadership of Muhammad Hassan, Gul
Hassan and others residents of SITE Area Kotri staged a protest demonstration
against the influential Talib Pathan for occupying on the plots. The former
employees of SRTC under the leadership of Haji Ghulam Muhammad Depar and others
staged a protest demonstration for the provision of their remaining dues.

The members of the Pakistan Telecommunication Lines Staff Union Hyderabad under
the leadership of Riaz Sario, Ali Akbar, Ismail and others staged protest
demonstration in favour of their demands.

The members of All Sindh Lower Staff Education Department Hyderabad chapter
under the leadership of Fakir Muhammad Chang and others staged a protest
demonstration in the favour of their demands. Women including Shahida, Saima,
Zahida and others, residents of Latifabad No-11 recorded a protest demonstration
against the atrocities of the influential men for lodging alleged fake cases
against them.

The contract based employees of Mazari Oil Field Matli under the leadership of
Muhammad Qasim Laghari, Ghulam Rasool Laghari, Abdul Shakoor Laghari and others
staged a protest demonstration in the favour of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              724 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday
                               Newcastle Edition

APEC chaos diary - Protesters' secret plan of mayhem revealed

BYLINE: KARA LAWRENCE, JOE HILDEBRAND

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 765  words


A WEEK-long campaign of mayhem involving every major protest group in Sydney
will cause mass CBD disruption during next month's APEC summit.

The Daily Telegraph can reveal that APEC organisers are bracing for protests
from a range of radical groups that are also recruiting high school students to
take part.

The revelations of the chaotic plans came as police yesterday issued a strong
warning to parents that they could not guarantee the safety of children caught
up in the protests. The groups to clog up Sydney for 11 days leading up to and
during the summit include protest groups Resistance and the Socialist Alliance,
secret security planning documents obtained by The Daily Telegraph reveal.

Also planning protests are the Maritime Union of Australia, Amnesty
International, the Greens, Vietnamese and Chinese groups, and Critical Mass,
with its monthly bike ride.

September 7 and 8 -- the peak of APEC leaders' week -- have emerged as the most
popular for protest groups.

Hyde Park, Martin Place, Sydney Town Hall, Belmore Park and Milsons Point will
all be occupied on these days.

On Saturday, September 8, at least 15,000 protesters are expected to clog the
CBD. The biggest protest is expected to be the 10,000-strong Stop Bush Stop
Howard rally and march from Sydney Town Hall to Hyde Park North.

The route chosen by the protesters -- from Sydney Town Hall down George St, into
Martin Place and to Hyde Park -- has yet to be approved by police.

But the Vietnamese community is also staging a protest on that day, which is
expected to attract thousands of protesters to Belmore Park, opposite Central
railway station.

The Stop Bush Coalition is also organising a protest at Sydney Town Hall to
coincide with the September 4 arrival of US President George W. Bush.

Students from at least five Sydney high schools will also walk out of school in
a student strike at 1pm on September 5 for a protest at Belmore Park. The group
is to then march along Elizabeth St and back to the park.

The protest, yet to receive police approval, is being organised by student group
Resistance.

Resistance organiser Simon Cunich yesterday told The Daily Telegraph that
hundreds of students -- possibly thousands -- were expected to take part.

He said Resistance had visited 20 Sydney private and public high schools..

Assistant Commissioner Dave Owens, who is heading the police APEC response, said
school students who attended protests put themselves at risk.

''These kids might get caught up in a violent protest ... we cannot guarantee
their safety if they do,'' he said.

Editorial: Page 24

-----------------------------------------------------------------

APEC AUSTRALIA 2007

Protest calendar

August - September 2007

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Thursday August 30

People v George Bush

mock trial - Parramatta Town Hall

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Friday August 31

Monthly bike ride by Critical Mass from Hyde Park

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Sunday September 2

Falun Dafa protest - Sydney CBD

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Monday September 3

Falun Dafa protest - Sydney CBD

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Tuesday September 4

Stop Bush Coalition protest against President George Bush's arrival in Sydney
CBD

Falun Dafa protest - Sydney CBD

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Wednesday September 5

Student protest against US President George Bush - Belmore Park

Protest supporting activist charged for allegedly trying to arrest Attorney
General for war crimes - Waverley Courthouse

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Thursday September 6

Falun Dafa protest Chinese freedom rally - Hyde Park and march through CBD

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Friday September 7 --- APEC DAY 1

Falun Dafa protest - CBD

Maritime Union of Australia protest - Hyde Park

Greens protest - Martin Place

FLARE in the void anarchist meeting

Chinese freedom rally - Sydney

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Saturday September 8 --- APEC DAY 2

Stop Bush Coalition protest march - Sydney Town Hall

Vietnamese community protest - Belmore Park

Amnesty International protest - Victoria Park

Chinese People for 2008 Olympics - Chinatown

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Sunday September 9 --- APEC DAY 3

Falun Dafa protest - Sydney CBD

Chinese People for 2008 Olympics - Chinatown

-----------------------------------------------------------------

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              725 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday

Beekeepers set to unite for protest

SECTION: FARMING; NATIONAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 300 words


`This protest is a chance for all beekeepers of New Zealand to protest together,
with people from the kiwifruit, avocado, pip and stone fruit, small seeds
industries and farmers.' Co-ordinator Russell Berry NEW ZEALAND beekeepers are
expected to meet in Wellington today to protest the importation of bee products.

Protest co-ordinator Russell Berry said the protest would unite the beekeeping
industry and the kiwifruit, avocado, pip and stone, small seeds and pastoral
farmers in New Zealand to convince the Agriculture and Forestry Ministry and the
Government not to allow the importation of bee products into New Zealand.

"To do so would destroy many sectors of New Zealand's economy.

Common-sense submissions to MAF seem to have had little effect," Mr Berry said.

Beekeepers have been lobbying their local MPs to stress the effect the
introduction of the disease European foul brood will potentially have on
kiwifruit pollination, pip and stone fruit pollination, small seed crops and
pollination of clover throughout New Zealand.

Protestors plan to meet at 11am and march to the Beehive and present a signed
petition to Prime Minister Helen Clark.

"This protest is a chance for all beekeepers of New Zealand to protest together,
with people from the kiwifruit, avocado, pip and stone fruit, small seeds
industries and farmers," Mr Berry said.

"It doesn't matter at all whether they belong to the bee industry group,
hobbyist clubs or they are a National Beekeepers Association member or a
beekeeper not affiliated to an organisation. Everybody is being made most
welcome" .

Beekeepers are planning to start the protest from both ends of New Zealand, from
Kaitaia in the north and Gore in the south. As beekeepers travelled to the
protest in Wellington they would display protest banners on their vehicles.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              726 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday

Embattled Azeri imam angered over refusal to authorize cartoon protests

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of Mahabbat's report by Azerbaijani newspaper Yeni Musavat on 11 February
headlined "Believers are unhappy that protests are not allowed" and subheaded
"The Mayor's Office of the capital will be sued"

The Muslim world has been engulfed in protests following the publication of
cartoons depicting Prophet Muhammad. The first protests of that kind started in
Azerbaijan last week. People took to the streets in Baku and the village of
Nardaran [Baku suburb] to protest against the cartoons.

A group of Muslim believers attempted to march to the French embassy the day
before yesterday [9 February]. As we reported earlier, the Cuma religious
community appealed to the Mayor's Office of Baku for holding a rally and march
to protest against the cartoons. But the community postponed the protest after
the sanction was denied.

In an interview with our newspaper, the imam of the Cuma community, Haci Ilqar
Ibrahimoglu, spoke highly about the protests against the cartoons mounted so
far:

"It is commendable that Azerbaijani Muslims protest against such flagrant acts
against their Prophet. At the same time, this is an indication of respect of the
Azerbaijani people for its national and moral values."

Ibrahimoglu also regretted the refusal to sanction the rally and march that
Muslim believers wanted to stage today [11 February]:

"The authorities should have allowed Muslims to voice their protests. But they
[authorities] were insincere in this issue. I believe this is a restriction on
the right to freedom of assembly. Generally, the response of the Mayor's Office
is unlawful. We will sue the Mayor's Office for this."

Our interlocutor did not rule out that he would again appeal to the Mayor's
Office for sanctioning protests.

Source: Yeni Musavat, Baku in Azeri 11 Feb 06, p 3

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              727 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 16, 2016 Sunday

Protest!

SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 203 words


From the Springbok tour to Bastion Point: there's a long tradition of New
Zealanders speaking out. A new exhibition as part of Auckland ArtWeek brings
together the best photographs of our protest movements.

--------------------

The exhibition Signs of Protest is on until October 23 at the Nathan Homestead,
70 Hill Road, Manurewa, Auckland. Entry free.

--------------------

CAPTION:

'I'm all white Jack': a scene from a protest against the 1960 All Blacks tour of
South Africa in Myers Park, Auckland.

Picture: MARTI FRIEDLANDER

Anti-Vietnam war protest in Queen St, Auckland, July 14, 1972.

Picture: JOHN MILLER

Land March, Perrett's Corner, Wellington, October 13, 1975. The land march, led
by Whina Cooper, had grown in size and amassed 60,000 signatures by the time it
came close to Parliament.

Picture: JOHN MILLER

Springbok tour protest in Mt Eden, September 1981.

Picture: JOHN MILLER

Teresa Cormack protest, Queen St Auckland, June 1987. Outrage at the rape and
murder of six year old Napier girl Teresa Cormack caused a street protest. The
case went unsolved until 2005.

Picture: GIL HANLY

Blockade the Budget, June 2012. A student protest in Symonds St, police
forcefully remove protestor Rachel Radovan.

Picture: JOS WHEELER

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              728 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Herts Mercury

                            October 14, 2016 Friday

Demonstrators' show of support for NHS staff

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 128  words


CAMPAIGNERS gathered outside a hospital in support of  NHS employees.

The North Hertfordshire People's Assembly held a peaceful protest in Stevenage
on Sunday.

Holding home-made signs and placards, campaigners pitched up outside Lister
Hospital to give their backing to workers.

Some of those who joined the protest included NHS staff.

Protesters also made a stand against cuts and reductions in services.

Martin Burke, from the North Hertfordshire People's Assembly, said: "Day by day
we see our NHS falling further away from us and into the hands of corporate
greed.

"We urge the public to get involved if they don't wish to   see a system, like
in the   United States, where   bankruptcy and humiliations face people on a
daily basis because they can't afford healthcare."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: kicker: Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
kicker: Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
demonstration: Above and below, campaigners gather at Lister Hospital to show
their support for NHS staff and opposition to cuts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              729 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                           January 23, 2016 Saturday

Bryson no longer backing City Hall protests

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 357 words


One of the leaders of the Union flag protests has said he no longer supports the
weekly demonstrations held by a small number of loyalists at Belfast City Hall.

Jamie Bryson was convicted of taking part in unlawful demonstrations linked to
the protests that brought parts of Belfast to a standstill following a council
decision in December 2012 to fly the flag only on designated days.

However, the Co Down loyalist, who is campaign manager for former DUP member
Ruth Patterson's bid to win a seat at the assembly this year, has said loyalists
should abandon the protests and follow "a pathway to political change".

Protesters have said they plan to hold a 12-hour Union flag 'vigil' in the city
on St Patrick's Day, coinciding with the annual council-organised celebrations.

Mr Bryson, who regularly addressed loyalists outside city hall at the height of
the demonstrations, said there is "no political advantage in holding a protest
on St Patrick's Day".

Writing on political website Slugger O'Toole, he said: "Protest is a powerful
tool to articulate your opposition or support for an issue and to highlight
grievances or inequalities.

"But protest must have an underlying strategy, a method of converting the energy
of protest into political action and then ultimately turning that activism into
democratic gains.

"The absence of such a strategy during the height of the Union flag protests was
a huge missed opportunity.

"I cannot see any strategic or political advantage in holding a protest on St
Patrick's Day. That is why I believe the organisers should rethink their plans.

"Further to this I think that if they believe there is a strategic or political
value in a St Patrick's Day protest, then the organisers should put forward a
spokesperson to articulate what the value is."

Mr Bryson described flag protests in the past as a "release valve" for loyalist
grievances.

But he said while he had no regrets about his involvement, there "has to come a
time when someone has to be brave enough to ask the question, what is this
achieving?"

"There has to be a pathway from protest to political action, to political change
- there has to be a strategy."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              730 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                           November 28, 2015 Saturday

Maldives gov't says opposition protest largely peaceful

LENGTH: 246  words


MALE (C[#x130]HAN)- The Maldives government Saturday said a protest staged by
the Maldives opposition overnight was largely peaceful and that there were no
arrests.



The protest organised by the main opposition Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP)
was held at the Artificial Beach of Male.

The protesters called for the release of Former President Mohamed Nasheed and
other detainees, among other demands.

Maldives Home Affairs Ministry said that throughout the largely peaceful protest
the Maldives Police Service had ensured the security of the gathered protesters.


"The MDP had agreed with the Maldives Police Service and the Elections
Commission, prior to the protest, to convene the protests in the most peaceful
and lawful manner," the Maldives Home Affairs Ministry said.

On Wednesday, the minister of home affairs had also informed the MDP that the
protest should be contained within the Artificial Beach area and must end at 12
midnight, citing the law regulating freedom of assembly and protests.

However, the Maldives Home Affairs Ministry said that participants went on the
streets of Male and the police, as informed earlier, dispersed the crowd. Pepper
spray was used after cautioning the crowd to disperse.

The Maldives government called upon the protesters to abide by the rule of law
and stop violent demonstrations.

The government assured the pubic that the stability and peace of the country and
the security of all citizens were paramount to them. (Cihan/Xinhua) C[#x130]HAN

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2015 Cihan News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              731 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday

Rahul's seat opts out of Cong protest

BYLINE: Maulshree Seth

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


In a surprise move, Congress's Amethi unit opted out of March 12 state-wide
protest, which has been planned by the party in every district against
amendments in the Land Acquisition Bill and law and order problem across the
state.

All the district units have been preparing for the past 15 days for the protest,
where they have to either block a highway or railway tracks. Strict instructions
have been issued to senior leaders to participate in these protests in their
respective regions.

The Congress also staged protests in the Parliament as well as in UP Assembly
against the Land Acquisition Bill. However, party's unit in Amethi - the
parliamentary constituency of vice-president Rahul Gandhi - has opted out of
tomorrow's protest.

On the other hand, Raebareli unit, represented by party president Sonia Gandhi,
is participating in the protest.

Asked about the reason to opt out of the state-wide call for the protest, party
leader from Amethi Yogendra Mishra said: "We will do it later on. We are
planning to hold a separate protest hopefully in the coming week."

Recently, son of state party secretary was murdered in Musafirkhana area of
Amethi. "It has been only few days since the murder. Police has asked for one
week time to solve the case and we would at least give them that time," said
Mishra.

"At present Board examinations are on and we did not want our protest to affect
students. Thus, we have asked the units to block highways and rail tracks
between 11am to 2 pm," said state president Nirmal Khatri.

Speaking to The Indian Express, Khatri said, "Each and every district leader has
been asked to participate in this protest and block road or railway track,
whichever they can manage. All those MLAs, who cannot go to their respective
constituencies have been asked to participate in Lucknow."

However, when asked about Amethi opting out of the state wide protest, Khatri
said, "Yes, I have come to know about it. There has been a murder in the
district recently thus they would do it later on to raise all these issues."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              732 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

Protest over Lanka Sentence Swells in State, 318 Arrested

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Nov. 1 -- Several persons were arrested across the State as protests
against a Sri Lankan court verdict awarding death sentence to five fishermen
reached a pitch on Friday. Agitators gave vent to their anger by shouting
anti-Lanka slogans and targeting the neighbouring country's president Mahinda
Rajapaksa by burning his effigies.In Chennai, over 300 people belonging to
several organisations were arrested for holding protests demanding release of
the five Indian fishermen. The protestors assembled in front of the Sri Lankan
Deputy High Commissioner's office in Nungambakkam and staged a protest. Several
leaders at the protest venue alleged that the move was a deliberate ploy of the
Sri Lankan Government to target the Tamil-speaking minority. The judiciary in
Sri Lanka was controlled by the government and the death penalty was a move to
target people from Tamil Nadu for raising human rights violations in the island
nation, they claimed.

Meanwhile, in Tirupur, 18 persons were arrested when they tried to burn
Rajapaksa's effigy near the railway station. The protest was led by Tamizhaga
Vazhvurimai Katchi to condemn the verdict and the Sri Lankan government.

Expressing solidarity with the fishing community, lawyers across Thanjavur
district boycotted courts. As part of the protests, the advocates staged
protests in front of court campuses. Around 680 lawyers boycotted the court.
Similar protests were reported from Kumbakonam, with 448 lawyers boycotting
work.

Meanwhile, police in Salem foiled the attempt by cadre of Tamilaga Vazhvurimai
Katchi to burn Rajapaksa's effigy. Sources said while a group of cadre was
staging a protest near the Head Post Office here, another section brought an
effigy of Rajapaksa and tried to set it on fire. However, police personnel on
duty foiled their bid. The cadre vacated the spot after raising slogans against
Lanka and Rajapaksa.

Five Tamil Nadu fishermen were among the seven sentenced to death by a Lankan
court in connection with a narcotics case. The verdict sparked spontaneous
protests across the State, with support pouring in for the family members of the
condemned. Similar protest was organised by the Tamilar Valvurimai cadre in
Nagercoil, where they burnt the effigies of Rajapaksa and staged a protest
against the verdict.

MDMK chief appears in sedition case

Chennai: MDMK general secretary Vaiko appeared before the Third Additional
Sessions Court in connection with a sedition case on Friday. The case was filed
under section 124 A of IPC, following his speech in a public meeting allegedly
supporting LTTE on October 21, 2008. When the case came up before sessions judge
Kayalvizhi, Vaiko's counsel Devadoss cross examined complainant, Q-Branch
Inspector Manivannan.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              733 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Recording shows Erdogan refused to ease tensions during Gezi Park protests

LENGTH: 485  words


Leaked audio recordings uploaded onto YouTube by an anonymous user allegedly of
a phone conversation between former Interior Minister Muammer Guler and
businessman Cemal Kalyoncu during the Gezi Park protests last summer reveal that
the minister had asked Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to allow
demonstrators to enter Gezi Park to make a press statement in exchange for
ending the protests, a proposal which Erdogan refused.

The Gezi Park protests, which began as a sit-in demonstration, quickly spread to
the whole country and evolved into anti-government protests. The conversation,
which was apparently wiretapped on June 1 while the protests were at their peak,
reveals that Guler, in an attempt to ease tensions which were extremely high
during that period, had pleaded with Prime Minister Erdogan to accept
protesters' offer to make a press statement in the park, which had been closed
off by the government after the protests heated.

The protesters had apparently asked Guler, through the meditation of some
deputies, for permission to enter Gezi Park to make a press statement, promising
to end the protests if they were allowed to do so. The alleged conversation
between Guler and Kalyoncu suggests that Erdogan feared the protesters would not
leave the park once they were let in and denied permission.

The voice allegedly of Guler also cursed the protesters, saying the government
would throw the protesters out of Gezi Park by force if the prime minister's
fears came true.

Today's Zaman could not verify the authenticity of the recording but if the
controversial recording is genuine, it reveals Prime Minister Erdogan refused to
ease tensions during the Gezi Park protests which subsequently escalated and led
to violent clashes between the police and protesters.

The 2013 protests in Turkey began on May 28 initially to oppose the urban
development plan for Istanbul's Taksim Gezi Park. The protests were sparked by
outrage as the protesters conducting a sit-in in the park were violently forced
out by riot police. Subsequently, supporting protests and clashes took place
across Turkey protesting plenty of other concerns.

Nearly a month ago, video footage released of the Gezi Park protests was found
to have refuted an alleged attack on a headscarved woman in Kabatas on June 1,
2013 during the protests. The incident was frequently repeated by Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan in an attempt to portray the protests as being hooligan in
nature.

In another attempt to stigmatize the Gezi protestors, Erdogan had also accused
them of drinking alcohol in a mosque. The mosque story was also later found to
be untrue, damaging Erdogan's credibility. In leaked video footage, the
demonstrators who sought refuge in a mosque appeared to have sustained injuries
and are wounded. The imam of the mosque apparently opened the doors of the
mosque to those running away from the police seeking refuge.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              734 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday

EC 'the protest province of SA'

BYLINE: Michael Kimberley

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 499 words


Region ties with Gauteng as worst for unrest
 [The] absolute deprivation in the Eastern Cape ... is fuelling protests
  kimberleym@timesmedia.co.za
 THE Eastern Cape has emerged as one of the two most protest-ridden provinces
for the first 11 months of the year, according to Municipal IQ's Hotspots
Monitor report.


 The Eastern Cape tied with Gauteng, with the two provinces accounting for 50%
of all protests carried out in South Africa.
 There have been 155 major service delivery protests since January, 39 of them
in the Eastern Cape. Protests in the province this year placed towns and cities
under siege for days as they often turned violent, with roads barricaded,
vehicles torched, buildings burnt and innocent bystanders killed.
 In the past, the Eastern Cape always fell short of Gauteng's protest tally.
 Municipal IQ is a unique web- based data and intelligence service specialising
in the monitoring and assessment of South Africa's municipalities.
  According to the data agency's Municipal Productivity Index (MPI) results, a
protest occurs at a rate of almost one every second day in South Africa. The
latest report was released yesterday.
 Municipal IQ managing director Kevin Allan said: "[The] absolute deprivation in
the Eastern Cape ... is fuelling protests."
 He said the province recorded the second-lowest score when it came to the
agency's Municipal Productivity Index (MPI). The MPI combines financial and non-
financial data to assess residents' living conditions and how vibrant the local
economy is.
 Municipal IQ economist Karen Heese said: "What is worrying about the Eastern
Cape is that protests did not only take place in urban areas stressed by
in-migration, like those in Uitenhage last month, but were spread to smaller
towns like Cookhouse and Port St Johns."
 Economist Mike Schussler said while protests would not necessarily scare off
future investors, it would make them think twice about channelling money into
the Eastern Cape. "The exact damage to the economy is not quantifiable, but
protests will have a negative impact."
 He said with the province being the protest province of the country, the
Eastern Cape government would have to work harder to attract investments.
 "It's not something you want to be known for. People and business prefer not to
be associated with protests."
 He said protests could affect anything from insurance prices to limited stock
available in shops.
 Local Government MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane's spokesman, Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha,
said it was not surprising that in a democratic society so many protests were
recorded.
 "While we have only heard about the Municipal IQ report and can't comment on
its data, the MEC has been encouraging the municipal leadership to engage more
with communities."
 He said a local government indaba had also recommended further public
participation.
 "Municipalities have shown an appetite for listening to the public and the MEC
is always available in facilitating a solution among stakeholders," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              735 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday

UPDATE | Egypt's president signs protest law

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 236  words


CAIRO, Nov 24 (Aswat Masriya) - Egypt's interim president approved on Sunday a
law that regulates demonstrations and the right to peaceful assembly, a
presidential spokesman has told the state-owned news agency.

The disputed protest law was largely criticized by political parties and human
rights organizations before it passed.

"The protest law forbids Egyptians from the rights to assembly, strike,
demonstrate and stage sit-ins and it legalizes their murder," said a joint
statement by 17 Egyptian non-governmental organizations.

The law stipulates that those who plan protests must notify the interior
ministry of protests three days prior to the protest and that they must be
granted permission from the police before gathering.

The law grants the police a green-light to use force to disperse protests and
bans sit-ins altogether.

"Protesters are not allowed to wear masks or cover their faces," according to
Article 6 of the recently-approved law, which makes an exception for women who
wear a full-face veil "maintaining the right of women to wear their veil as long
as they do not commit crimes during the protest."

This law was originally drafted during the rule of deposed Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi, who was ousted by the military on July 3 following mass protests
against him.

Egyptians took to the street regularly since the January uprising that toppled
autocratic President Hosni Mubarak three years ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2013 Aswat Masriya
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              736 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday

Telangana doctors protest nod for 'Save AP' meet

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 250 words


HYDERABAD: Telangana doctors held protests at the Osmania General Hospital and
Gandhi Hospital on Saturday to protest against the state government's decision
to allow the APNGOs Association, representing pro-united Andhra employees, to
hold the 'Save AP' meeting.

The doctors who held two hour-long protests in state-run hospitals also
condemned the lathicharge at Osmania University, where clashes broke out between
the police and students, after the latter were not allowed to carry out a
protest march.

"We held protests to express our displeasure as the city turned into a war zone
on Saturday. Providing police protection to a meeting held against the wishes of
the locals is clearly not acceptable," said Dr P Praveen, secretary, Telangana
Government Doctors Association. Hyderabad is part of Telangana and cannot be
shared by two states, he added.

Doctors also said that they were unhappy with the anti-Telangana stand taken by
the chief minister. "Permission to hold a rally on Saturday was denied to
pro-Telangana groups. If one group has the right to protest, another group has
the right to counter it," said another doctor.

Almost all government doctors and junior doctors held protests between 9 am and
11 am. "Hospital services were not affected," said a doctor at Gandhi Hospital.
However, the number of patient reduced in most of the hospitals on account of
the bandh and non-availability of buses. Several chemists and diagnostic centres
shut shops as well.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              737 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday
                                  1 - Edition

Libs' tough protest pledge

BYLINE: JENNIFER CRAWLEY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 181  words


THE Liberals say they will harden up penalties for illegally entering a
workplace after ``only'' two of 40 protesters who entered the Smithton Ta Ann
sawmill were arrested on Friday.

The Liberals' Plan for a Brighter Future includes toughening up the law against
illegal protests, Opposition forestry spokesman Peter Gutwein said.

Labor's new workplace safety laws do not address illegal protests, he said.

``There has not been a single prosecution of a forest protester under these laws
since they were brought in,'' Mr Gutwein said.

``Illegal protests like Ta Ann prevent Tasmanians from earning an honest living
and should not be tolerated.''

The Ta Ann protest drew strong condemnation from all sides of the forestry
debate including Environment Tasmania, The Wilderness Society and the Australian
Conservation Foundation.

Mr Gutwein said the only voice who refused to condemn Friday's protest was
Greens Minister Nick McKim, who described the protest as ``unhelpful''.

``The only way to discourage disruptive and illegal forest protests is to
toughen up the law so it acts as a deterrent.''

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              738 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday

Anti-Brotherhood protest in founder's hometown

BYLINE: Liliana Mihaila

LENGTH: 222 words


Al-Dostour Party has staged an anti-Morsy protest in Mahmoudiya, in the
governorate of Beheira.

Mahmoudiya is the hometown of Sheikh Hassan Al-Banna who founded the Muslim
Brotherhood in 1928.

According to Al-Dostour Party member in Mahmoudiya, Ahmed Khlefa, the protest
was organised by the party to denounce President Mohamed Morsy' recent
constitutional declaration.

"Not everyone in the protest was from the [Dostour] party,"  Khlefa said. "There
were ordinary citizens who were there to protests the poor administration of the
country."

He said there were no clashes with Muslim Brotherhood supporters during the
protests.

Osama Mohamed from the Freedom and Justice Party in Beheira governorate
suggested the turnout had been low, asking "who was actually there?"

Khelfa however said around 2,000 people attended. "For a small town like
Mahmoudiya, that's a big protest," he said. He added that in contrast, a protest
organised by the FJP on Sunday was attended by 50 people.

Mohamed said some of the protesters had wanted to burn the local FJP
headquarters but were prevented by police.

Morsy's constitutional declaration announced last Thursday has polarised the
country over the sweeping new powers the president awarded himself. In some
instances protests have devolved into violent clashes between pro- and
anti-Morsy demonstrators.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              739 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Levada Center releases report on the protest movement 'without a plan'

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 405 words


The independent Levada Center polling agency has released an analytical research
paper on potential future scenarios for the protest movement. The research was
carried out based on interviews with the leaders of the opposition and rally
participants, also incorporating data from public opinion polls. The research
was conducted with the support of the U.S. Congress-funded National Endowment
for Democracy organization.

Possible protest resurgence

The report warned that although public protests may be dying down and could
cease altogether for some period of time, they could return with increased
ferocity.

"The mass protests clearly showed the internal contradictions of the Russian
political system," said the Levada report. "The deliberate destruction of
civilian structures which provided for peaceful resolutions of events on this
past occasion ... has increased the likelihood that the next inevitable surge of
public discontent will be less manageable and more violent."

According to the Levada Center, there have recently appeared three or four
possible scenarios for the development of the protest movement in Russia.

"You can talk about three or four lines of development for the protest movement:
observation, political protest, civil protest, including the youth-orientated
Occupy movement."

Leaderless movement

The Levada Center said that at present there was no single "super-leader" or
"mega structure" representing an alternative to the country's current
leadership, "but a colorful, competitive, public political field."

The vast differences in the disparate views of the various public movements
participating in the protests and these groups' strong dislike of one another
meant that the opposition leaders had to tone down their objectionable political
stances to encourage unity.

"So, Alexei Navalny was forced to temper his nationalist rhetoric, Sergei
Udaltsov publicly declared he would review his relationship to Stalin," read the
report.

The vast majority of surveyed leaders and ordinary members of the protest
movement agree that no change from the top is possible in Russia. "There is a
consensus that change can only come from below under pressure. The state machine
is much stronger than the protesters," said the report

"The lack of a clear program of action is today one of the main problems for the
protest movement. So far, there is no leader or party that has a 'clear plan,'"
concluded the report.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                              740 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 312

LENGTH: 233  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
activists of PPP-SB led by Peeral Majeedano, Irshad Khaskheli and others
recorded a protest demonstration against the appointment of Chauhdry Pervez
Elahi as the Deputy Prime Minister. The activists of Jeay Sindh Tehreek led by
Abdul Fattah Channa, Zaka Hussain Buriro, Munir Laghari and others staged a
protest demonstration for arrest of the killers of their party leaders Lal Bux
Bhatti. A man namely Ghulam Hussain Lashari, resident of village Abdul Majeed
Dero, Sanghar protested against the influential men of his area for occupying
his residential plot.

The PST test passed candidates including Ali Raza Larik, Nazeer Ahmed and others
staged a protest demonstration for the issuance of offer orders to them. The
members of the Special Persons' Social Welfare Organization including Shahzadi
Khan, Imran Akhtar and others continued their protest demonstration in favor of
their demands. The members of Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association led by
Sharif Palari and others recorded a protest demonstration in favor of their
demands. A woman namely Rizwana Jumani w/o Muhammad Usman Mahar, resident of
village Jan Khan Mahar Sukkur staged a protest demonstration against her
in-laws, who are allegedly trying to kill her over the Kari pretext.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              741 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Riot Gear's Evolution

BYLINE: By CHI BIRMINGHAM and ALEX S. VITALE.

Chi Birmingham is an illustrator. Alex S. Vitale, an associate professor of
sociology at Brooklyn College, is the author of ''City of Disorder: How the
Quality of Life Campaign Transformed New York Politics.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ART; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 198 words


Just as the styles of protest have changed from one generation to the next, so
have the styles of protest policing. Technological advances, training
innovations and changing attitudes toward the right to assemble have all shaped
the way the police handle the challenges of large demonstrations. During the
1960s and '70s, police officers treated many protests as a threat to the social
order and responded with brute force. In the 1980s and '90s, demonstrations
tended to be less confrontational and the police responded with more
accommodating tactics.

Following the ''Battle in Seattle'' protests against the World Trade
Organization in 1999, a more restrictive, preemptive and aggressive form of
protest policing emerged at the 2003 protests in Miami over the Free Trade Area
of the Americas. The current Occupy demonstrations have adopted a defiant and
disruptive style of protest that has pushed the boundaries of the First
Amendment, but the response has been mixed. While many cities have evicted
encampments and blocked marches through enormous shows of force, others have
tried to use communication and flexibility to preserve the nonviolent if
disruptive character of these protests.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: 1968: Democratic National Convention Riot Chicago Police
Department (depicted). Also present: National Guard and United States Army.
1995: Million Man March Washington, D.C., police (depicted). Also present: U.S.
Park Police.
 2011: Occupy Oakland Eviction Oakland Police Department (depicted). Also
present: Other agencies. (SR6-SR7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              742 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday

'Regime change'

LENGTH: 426  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Aug. 24 -- Naturally, 'the White House called, in no uncertain terms,
for "regime change" in Syria and the ouster of President Bashar Al Assad.....
Covert support has also been channelled to the armed rebel groups'.

If not entirely as a result of the support of the West for what are termed
peaceful protests in countries where the West would like regime change, the
media presents these protests in a very positive light.

The implication is that law and order should be put aside in the service of a
good cause. This extended as we know to protests in places where the West did
not want a change, but those protests were soon forcibly quelled, and are now
referred to only sporadically.

The stage then seemed set for a wholly manipulated presentation of protests,
with good protests which the West found attractive and would support to the
desired conclusion, and bad protests which had to be suppressed. This was
reminiscent of the total cynicism with which the West had developed the concept
of good terrorists and bad ones. The former were to be encouraged, so we used to
have vivid accounts of the brave heroics of for instance Jonas Savimbi in
Angola, the Contras in Nicaragua, Al Qaeda in Afghanistan when its opponents
were Russians. There are also suggestions that similar tactics were used in
Kosovo, though I should note that the latest article on the subject was
published by the Centre for Research on Globalisation, which also published
Chossudovsky. His account of what happened in Azerbaijan in 1993 therefore -
'the mujahedin got to defend Muslims against Russian influence in the enclave of
Nagorno-Karabakh, while the Americans got a new president who opened up the
oilfields of Baku to western oil companies' - may need to be examined further.

Unfortunately chickens come home to roost. The utterly cynical use of
fundamentalist terrorists to defeat the Soviet Union led to an enormously
strengthened organization that was able to perpetrate the monstrosity of 9/11.

Support for Saddam Hussein against Iran led to a well equipped army that invaded
Kuwait and was then able to engage in rhetoric that provided a pretext for war.

And now the privileging of lawless demonstrations has led to those who see
themselves as deprived and discriminated against taking the law into their own
hands, and engaging in looting and destruction. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any query with respect to this article
or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              743 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

Azeri ruling party official says unauthorized protests to be thwarted

LENGTH: 223 words


Attempts will be prevented to hold unauthorized protests anywhere in Azerbaijan,
APA news agency quoted Ali Ahmadov, the deputy head of the country's ruling New
Azerbaijan (Yeni Azarbaycan) party, as saying on 15 June.

Ahmadov expressed the confidence that the Azerbaijani public disapproved of
street opposition protests and appreciated stability in the country.

"I am stating clearly that attempts to hold unauthorized protests in any region
of Azerbaijan, including in Baku, will be resolutely prevented," APA quoted
Ahmadov as saying while commenting on the plans of the opposition umbrella group
Public Chamber to hold a protest on 19 June.

"There may be forces which incite the radical branch of the opposition to
disturb public and political stability in the country. There are grounds for
saying this. Attempts to hold a protest during hot summer time suggest that
there are totally different intentions," Ahmadov said.

The Azerbaijani public will not support the protest, as it values stability in
the country, Ahmadov said. "There is lasting public and political stability in
Azerbaijan, and every citizen realizes the benefits of this stability. I believe
that the Azerbaijani public will not support the opposition's attempt to hold
the uncoordinated protest," Ahmadov said.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Russian 0612 gmt 15 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              744 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 21, 2010 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1534

LENGTH: 243  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
teachers of Hyderabad on the call of GSTA, PTA, MATA and All Sindh Head Teachers
Association Action Committee under the leadership of Zaheer Mirza, Sooriah
Jatoi, Atta-ur-Rehman, Kazi Ameenuddin and others continued their protest
demonstration in favour of their demands. A woman namely Zahida,

resident of Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration against an influential man
of her area for

issuing threats her dire threats. A woman namely Zulekhan, resident of Bihar
Colony staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of her kidnapped
daughter-in-law Parveen. The activists of the Baloch Students Organization under
the leadership of Amir Baloch, Zahir Khan Baloch and others staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of missing persons of Balochistan.

A man namely Gul Hassan Chandio, resident of village Shahmeer Chandio district
Shaheed Benazirabad staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his
kidnapped daughter namely Mumtaz. The former employees of SRTC under the
leadership of Haji Ghulam Muhammad Depar and others continued their protest
demonstration for the 2506th consecutive day for provision of remaining dues.
Two disabled persons including Aslam Hussaini and Shehnaz Memon, residents of
Shaheed Benazirabad staged a protest demonstration for the provision of jobs.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              745 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1474

LENGTH: 109  words


Different protests were recorded by the people of Hyderabad in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.  According to details, the
members of the Mehrba Labourers Union staged a protest demonstration in favour
of their demands.

The residents of a Hari camp recorded a protest demonstration against the
atrocities of their local area influential men. A man namely Qamaruddin,
resident of Phuleli staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his
kidnapped daughter namely Shazia. A man namely Anwar Mallah resident of Dadu
staged a protest demonstration against the atrocities of the influential men and
the local police.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              746 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday

Protests over attacks on Gaza

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 237 words


Around 150 demonstrators - many of them students - took to the streets of
Belfast yesterday in protest at the Israeli offensive in Gaza.

Socialist Youth, which organised the event at the City Hall, said many of the
protesters came from schools and technical colleges.

Socialist Youth spokesman Paddy Meehan said he was pleased that "the people of
Belfast have made their voices heard".

Socialist Youth is organising another protest outside the US Consulate on Monday
to highlight "the Bush administration's support of the invasion".

In Derry up to 70 people from the Derry Anti-War Coalition (DAWC) staged a
protest yesterday morning outside the premises of US defence firm Raytheon.

They blocked workers from entering the building in Springtown. The protest ended
last night.

Eamonn McCann from the DAWC said the protest was a peaceful one.

A spokesman from Raytheon said the company respected the right of anyone to
protest peacefully but that they were concerned for the welfare of their
employees.

Meanwhile a rally and march are planned for Belfast city centre later today.

Under a banner of Stop The Slaughter. End The Occupation and Free Gaza, the
protest, sponsored by the Irish Congress of Trade Unions (ICTU), starts at
12.30pm at Arts College Square.

Speakers will include ICTU president Patricia McKeown, Belfast lord mayor Tom
Hartley, Nobel Peace laureate Mairead Maguire and a representative of the
Palestinian community.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              747 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Protesting the protests in Garden Grove;
Store owners plan own demonstration today against anti-communist activists.

BYLINE: By DEEPA BHARATH; THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. County_B

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE


GARDEN GROVE Main Street merchants who are tired of loud protests in their
neighborhood by anti-communist activists say they are ready to retaliate today
with rock 'n' roll, banners and the Stars and Stripes if protesters won't take
their demonstration elsewhere.

For the past 10 months Little Saigon anti-communist protesters have thronged
Main Street and demonstrated against the Viet Weekly magazine, saying the
editors there are sympathetic to the communist regime in Vietnam.

John Scott, a certified public accountant and Vietnam veteran whose office is
across the street from the targeted publication, said he is sick and tired of
the noisy protests, which he claims are costing him business.

If the protesters don't move to the Gem Theater and away from the Main Street
strip, Scott said, he and other merchants are going to launch their own counter-
protest with American flags, pro-freedom-of-speech banners and loud rock 'n'
roll music.

"This is my place of business and this is how I make money and feed my family,"
he said. "I'd like to call myself a true American hero and a patriot. But this
fight is for John Scott."

The primarily refugee community in Little Saigon has butted heads with the Viet
Weekly magazine since July. But editors have stood their ground, saying they're
simply presenting a different point of view and won't change their policies or
coverage.

Hung Phuong Nguyen, one of the protest organizers, says he is unhappy with the
merchants' response. He said Scott already gave protesters a taste of his
counter-protest last week.

"He plays loud music when we play the (South) Vietnamese national anthem and the
American national anthem," he said. "That's not respecting your own country."

The accountant says he arrived at the counter-protest idea after the city's
Police Department and the city attorney said they could not do anything about
the protests.

The Police Department has found that protesters so far have not violated the
law, said Garden Grove police Lt. Travis Whitman.

Nguyen said it is unlikely his group will take the protest out of Main Street.

Protest details

The Main Street merchants are planning a counter-protest against Little Saigon
demonstrators at 2 p.m. today at the corner of Main Street and Acacia Parkway in
downtown Garden Grove. The anti-protest rally will feature American flags and
'60s rock 'n' roll.

Anti-protest:John Scott of Scott Tax Associates Inc. says he's lost business
because of protests outside his window.

714-445-6685 or  dbharath@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              748 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

Misguided protests

BYLINE: Deseret Morning News editorial

LENGTH: 361 words


In these contentious times, Americans are turning more and more to "civil
disobedience" to make their feelings known. The problem is, the demonstrations
have little "civil" about them. It's almost as if protesters here have taken
their cues from news footage of Middle Eastern protesters pumping their fists
and chanting slogans. American protesters seem to have glossed over three key
points.

A protest is not about the protesters, it is about the position.

A protest is about numbers, not noise.

A protest is not about might, but right.

Some have criticized the restrictions put on protesters at Brigham Young
University in the preparations for Vice President Dick Cheney's visit. But the
most powerful protests are often understated.

Images of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. quietly leading his followers on marches
come to mind. So does Mahatma Gandhi, quietly standing in the sea making salt to
protest the industrial limitations put on India by British colonialists.

Just as reasoned, earnest letters to this paper tend to have more power and sway
with public opinion than the bombastic outbursts of the outraged, so, too, a
protest carried out with dignity and respect holds a high-minded tone that
points to a noble ideal. Passionate sputtering often simply locks the opposition
into a defensive position and limits dialogue. Reason quickly gives way to
ranting. The fierceness of the infighting undermines any hope of compromise or
even understanding.

America sees such things today in the posturing of its political leaders in
Washington. Instead of a lofty dialogue the nation gets loutish diatribe.
Positions are hardening. Progress is in peril.

America is an optimistic nation -- a nation that believes right will win out.
Information, not invective, should be the watchword. If a position staked out by
protesters has merit, others will embrace it. If it doesn't, all the chanting
and charade in the world can never create a groundswell of grass-roots support.

It's not about the protesters, it's about points of view. And the best way to
get that point out to the world is to behave in a manner that lets opinions take
the spotlight, not the people espousing them.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              749 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday

MMA FIRM TO BOYCOTT ASSEMBLY SESSIONS: QAZI

LENGTH: 351 words


ISLAMABAD, Dec 17 : President of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal  (MMA) Qazi Hussain
Ahmad on Sunday announced that MMA has decided not to attend assembly sessions
and the religious amalgamation will not accept any privileges from the
parliament and stay away from committee meetings as well. MMA will remain united
at all costs for the ouster of President General Pervez Musharraf from power, he
said while addressing the gathering of party members here at Jamaat-e-Islami
office.

"Our protest against the government will be peaceful and we are ready to face
the bullets if the government try to sabotage the protest," he pledged.
Commenting on scheduled protest against the government over the passage of the
controversial bill, he pointed out that all parties were united including
students of seminaries to sack the military junta. Contacts with different
parties are underway to pave the way of protest against the government, he
added. He ruled out differences among party ranks.

Our protest is not only against the WPB but also against Musharraf and US
policies, he held, adding we will continue our protest till the Islamic
revolution. Referring to the government policies for bringing unrestrained
freedom, he said, we will not allow secularism in the country.

Elaborating the upcoming elections, he pointed out; different surveys are
underway to make General Musharraf a popular leader. He will only learn about
his popularity when he will doff his uniform and come into real politics, Qazi
added. He also urged Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain to leave government patronized
Sufism and join ranks of True Islam. The real Sufi preaches Jihad instead of
loneliness and reconciliation, he added.

Later on talking to newsmen Qazi Hussain Ahmed said Amin Faheem's statement is
clear violation of Charter of Democracy. Replying a query over Hasba Bill, he
said that Musharraf would bring every law except Islamic laws.  He also said
President is interfering in provincial matters excessively, he opined. Rulers
are trying to create constitutional hurdles as its passage is according to
democratic norms, he maintained.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Domestic Politics; Religion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                        Copyright 2006 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              750 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 24, 2003

Protests must remain peaceful

SECTION: Features; General; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words


Reverend Bill MASH, vicar of St George's Church in Newcastle.  "We have the
right and the freedom to protest peacefully against things we don't approve of.
It is something that we very much take for granted in our society and I hope
that the people of Iraq will soon enjoy the same rights and freedoms as we do.
But the emphasis should be on the word peaceful. I think that it is very sad
when protests become violent because that means that the protesters are doing
the same thing that they are protesting against.

I personally think that, for the sake of our troops' morale, we should be behind
them and supporting them. And I fear that mass protests will take up valuable
police time when we need our police to be doing their most important job -
protecting us all against terrorism." GEOFF WAKEFIELD, a former social worker
who now runs Ipstones' village shop, The Trading Post.

"These protesters can never claim to be patriots because, once the war has begun
and the people we have elected have committed us to it, then we really should be
presenting a united front. For our boys and girls to be hearing and seeing all
these protests is totally wrong.

The slogan 'Not in My Name' is a nonsense. Everybody in this country is
responsible for what is happening in Iraq because the troops are fighting in all
our names. The only thing that the peace protesters are now doing is to disturb
the concentration of our soldiers who have a very nasty job to do. If people
want to protest then they should do it outside Saddam's palace in Baghdad. They
only have the liberty to protest because earlier generations gave their lives.

Right up to the last minute I supported their right to protest, but once the
line is crossed they should protest no more." PRITPAL NAGI, proprietor of The
Elms Indian restaurant in Shelton.

"I suppose people have the right to their opinions and to express them in
protest. But, since the war has begun, this is a difficult question. We are a
democratic country and people are entitled to free speech. I don't suppose the
troops themselves will know too much about what is happening in any case. They
will be too busy doing their jobs.

But surely the police have better things to do right now than to man these
protests. And I don't agree with non-peaceful protests. I saw on television the
other day a group of protesters blocking a road so that people could not make
their journeys into work. That is wrong. They are going too far and taking away
the rights of other individuals. If people want to protest then they should do
it in parks or on pavements where they do not cause obstructions and disturb
others." NINO MANCI, an active peace campaigner, from Congleton.

Like many of the anti-war protesters, I have felt great sadness that the Iraq
war has now started without UN backing. What do we do now? Is there any point to
continuing our opposition? Well I do feel that the huge scale of the worldwide
opposition to this war has achieved the refocusing of some of the participants
in this action.

We were being bombarded with the repetitive spin slogan: "Weapons of Mass
Destruction". Now at least the humanitarian issues associated with the war have
been brought to the fore. In part, this may be window dressing, but the massive
public opposition to this war has caused the war leaders to think and act more
strongly along these lines. Anything that we can do to keep up this pressure
should be done. If, like me, you remember the Basra road atrocities of the last
Iraq war then you can only hope this will not be repeated." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 The Sentinel (Stoke)


                              751 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday

Unions in Suriname plan prolonged protests against IMF program

BYLINE: Ivan Cairo, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


June 04--PARAMARIBO, Suriname -- Residents in Suriname are preparing for a
prolonged series of protest demonstrations against the fallout from the ongoing
financial and economic crisis in the country. For the second time in three weeks
several thousand people marched in the streets in Paramaribo on Thursday
protesting against austerity measures implemented by the Bouterse
administration.

The protest demonstration was organized by a number of workers unions and
private sector organizations. While some demonstrators called for President Desi
Bouterse to "go home", most protestors denounced the price hikes for electricity
and water. Union leaders claimed that harsher times are coming since another
round of price increases for electricity is coming in September this year and in
January 2017.

During Thursday's rally, president of the C-47 Workers Union, Robby Berenstein,
said that during the past months already over 100 companies have closed their
doors, resulting in lay-offs of numerous employees. Claiming in a petition
presented to Speaker of the House, Jennifer Geerlings-Simons, protestors said
that inflation has risen to 46 percent, while the national currency is losing
its value everyday due to an incompetent monetary policy by the government.

"Numerous public servants, pensioners, disabled persons and others who have
become victims of the ongoing financial and economic crisis are serious
financial problems and should be immediately compensated for the inflation,"
protesters said in the petition.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) last week approved a stand-by arrangement
of US$478 million to boost the government's economic restructuring program amid
a drop in commodity prices. Last Friday, the IMF announced that it will
immediately disburse US$81 million as part of a two-year agreement.

Members of Parliament from the opposition voiced their anger on Tuesday in
parliament, accusing the government of by-passing the legislature in its
engagement with the IMF to conclude the loan agreement.

The restructuring program is aimed at strengthening Suriname's public finances
following a drop in prices for its principal commodities, namely, gold and oil.
According to the IMF, the sustained drop in the prices of gold and oil has
caused substantial external and fiscal deficits, and international reserves have
declined significantly.

These negative external developments, combined with the closure of Suriname's
alumina refinery in late 2015, have pushed the economy into a recession.

"Implementing the structural reform agenda is essential to ensure a prosperous
future for Suriname," the IMF said in a statement.

___ (c)2016 the Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) Visit the
Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) at www.caribbeannewsnow.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160604-1CN-Unions-in-Suriname-plan-prolonged-protests
-against-IMF-program-0604-20160604

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CN


        Copyright 2016 Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands


                              752 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                  May 18, 2016

Service delivery protests set for new highs this election year

BYLINE: Lisa Steyn

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: Municipal IQ, a body that collects data on protests staged against
municipalities says the number of demonstrations are worrisome.


If service delivery protests continue to happen at the same rate that they have
in the past four months, 2016 will realise a new peak for such action. Municipal
IQ, a specialised local government data and intelligence organisation that
collects data on service delivery protests staged against municipalities, said
the increase in the number of demonstrations are worrisome particularly in an
election year when, typically, they drop off. Karen Heese, an economist at
Municipal IQ, said: "It is worrying to see service delivery protests increase
before elections.

In previous election years, we actually registered protests dropping off, with
electioneering appearing to promote better community engagement. Such engagement
bolstered mechanisms for dispute resolution -- proactive service delivery
responses could still reverse the upward trajectory of protests seen so far."Up
until April 30 this year, Municipal IQ recorded 70 such demonstrations. If the
rate of service delivery protests was sustained at the same rate for the rest of
the year, it would reach a record peak of 210, compared with 164 in 2015 and 191
(the highest so far) in 2014.In the previous municipal election year, 2011,
service delivery protests were subdued at 82 compared with the two years before
and the years that have since followed. In the first four months of 2016,
Gauteng experienced the highest proportion (26%) of service delivery protests,
followed closely by the Eastern Cape (24%). Kevin Allan, managing director of
Municipal IQ, says: "Many of these protests have taken place in informal
settlements and underdeveloped areas where service delivery remains a major
challenge." The Free State experienced only 1% of such protests this year to
date, followed by Northern Cape (4%), Limpopo (6%), North West (7%), Mpumalanga
(9%), Western Cape (11%) and KwaZulu-Natal (12%).Municipal IQ noted the data did
not include protests directed primarily against councillor candidates, which it
considers a political issue, or those related to demarcation, a national matter,
as seen in Vuwani in Limpopo, where about 24 schools have been set alight by
residents demonstrating against the municipal demarcation board's decision to
merge Vuwani into the new Malamulele municipality. The data also excludes
protest action related to industrial relations and university protests. Heese
adds that the unusually high number of protests in an election year "possibly
speaks to a growing role of opposition parties like the Economic Freedom
Fighters in marginalised communities raising issues of underdevelopment and
marginalisation". In some instances, voter registration for local government
elections has been disrupted by demonstrations.Local government elections are
scheduled to take place on August 3. The Independent Electoral Commission is
seeking leave to appeal a ruling that it provide the addresses of registered
voters, arguing that it would prevent the municipal elections from going ahead.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              753 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

31 post-graduates released from Qasr Al-Nil police station

BYLINE: Sarah El-Sheikh

LENGTH: 212 words


Qasr Al-Nil police station released 31 post-graduate degree holders on Monday
after they were arrested during a protest by PhD and masters holders in Downtown
Cairo, according to Al-Ahram newspaper.

However, the police are yet to release injured Mahmoud Abu Zaid, the protest
coordinator.

Dozens of PhD holders organised a protest on Sunday, requesting employment in
the Ministry of Higher Education from the state after the completion of their
doctoral studies.

The security forces dispersed the protest and arrested several people, including
the protest coordinator, after it gave a one hour warning to end the protest.

In recent months, graduates have organised several protests demanding
governmental employment.

Early in November, dozens of Nursing Institute graduate students protested in
Qasr Al-Aini Street demanding government employment. Security forces dispersed
the demonstration.

In September, teachers and students demonstrated at the Press Syndicate against
the Education Minister, while technical school students protested against the
Minister of Higher Education, with several demands related to improving the
educational system. They also highlighted the controversial case pertaining to
student Mariam Malak, who was given 0% in her final secondary school exams.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2015 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              754 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday

Goons threaten legislator, residents for protesting against I&FC deptt

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: Anantnag


Anantnag, Aug. 1 -- Political goons on Friday threatened a legislator and
residents of Bijbehara's Gadhanjipora locality, of dire consequences after they
held a protest demonstration against Irrigation and Flood Control department for
closing down ramp-sand extraction point in their village. Eyewitnesses said that
after Friday prayers, hundreds of residents of Gadhanjipora Bijbehara held
forceful protest demonstration against Flood Control department for closing down
ramps-sand extraction points- in the area which according to them are the main
source of income for the majority of residents. National Conference leader and
Member of Legislative Council, Dr Syed Bashir Ahmad Veeri was leading the
protest demonstration, they said. Eyewitness said that protest demonstration
ended peacefully after the officers of Revenue and Flood Control department
accompanying MLC Bashir Ahmad Veeri assured that they will 'loot into the
matter'.

However, in the evening villagers and legislator received threat calls,
allegedly from a People's democratic worker after which residents held another
protest demonstration against political hooliganism.

"We ended our protest peacefully but in the evening PDP workers again threatened
us for holding a protest demo which is our democratic right. After receiving
threat calls we again assembled and held protest demonstration and requested
police to arrest the culprits," Bashir Ahmad, a resident told Early Times,
adding they will file a joint compliant with police.

MLC Dr Bashir Ahmad Veeri who has filed a complaint with Bijbehara police
claimed that he was also abused and threatened by PDP worker over phone. "He
(PDP) worker abused me and threatened that he will vandalize the residential
houses of residents," Veeri said. He identified the PDP worker (caller) as Zakir
Hussain Shah of Bijbehara. "Come to Bijbehara I will cut you in pieces," Veeri
accused Zakir of having said on Phone.

Zakir Hussain on being contacted admitted to have misbehaved with the legislator
on phone. "I am not among those who will tolerate all this.

How he dubbed me a Jansangi (RSS man)," he said. Dr Veeri earlier addressing
people rued discriminatory attitude of I&FC department and said, "No one will
object if the department will demolish the structures constructed on river
banks," adding carrying out selective demolition and punishing only poor is
unacceptable.

Executive Engineer Flood Control Department Bashir Ahmad Shah when contacted
said that they haven't started any demolition drive in the area. "We have
started dredging Jehlum there and are complying High Court directions," he said.

Shah said that residents are free to extract sand manually according to rules.
"They are demanding motor way so that they can use heavy machinery for
extracting sand which is against the law. We don't have any problem if they will
extract the stand manually after taking proper permission," he added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              755 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 26, 2015 Monday

Albanian opposition leader urges popular protest

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

Tirana, 25 January: Chairman of the opposition Democratic Party [PD], Lulzim
Basha on Sunday [25 January] urged the Albanian citizens to protest against
economic and social injustice of Rama government, during an appearance before
the media from the headquarters of the Democratic Party.

He announced that the tomorrow's protest gives the kick off the new season of
PD's protests, specifying that "Monday's protest is the opening of an
unstoppable spring of massive and popular protests".

"All Albanians throughout the territory of our country, wherever they are
tomorrow at 11:00 am should turn off their engines for 5 minutes, in protest
against the rise in oil prices and other injustices of this government", Basha
urged.

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1423 gmt 25 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              756 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           October 29, 2014 Wednesday

Support for Adivasi Agitation

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Oct. 29 -- Several groups in the state and outside have expressed
solidarity with the Adivasi 'stand-up protest' being held in Thiruvananthapuram.
Adivasi Stand-up Protest Solidarity Forum, Mumbai, on Monday conducted a protest
gathering in front of Vashi Railway station in support of the stir.The students
and researchers from IIT, Tata Institute of Social Sciences and Mumbai
University took part in the protest. Social activist M N Karasseri addressed the
gathering.

Supporting the Adivasi Stand-up Protest, Dr Ambedkar Study and Research Centre
would organise a protest gathering at the Kerala High Court Junction in Kochi on
Saturday. The leaders of Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe Joint Council will
organise a dharna in front of the Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday.
Demanding various rights and protesting against the government decision to
distribute forest land, the council will hold a rally from Kasargod to Thrissur
from March 1 to March 15, 2015.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              757 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Vandalism promised in war waged for water supplies

BYLINE: RUSSEL MOLEFE

LENGTH: 450 words


A REPRESENTATIVE of a community that staged a protest for water provision in
Mpumalanga once again sent a chill down the spine of authorities over the use of
violence to push for their demand.

"We have not had a strike this year apart from this one. What we wanted the most
is that if they keep neglecting us after the protest, we would protest again and
the next one will not be as peaceful, we would vandalise everything," the
unnamed representative reportedly said.

He continued: "It would be useless for us to protest peacefully and then they
still neglect us. In fact, the strike has not ended, it can start at any time."

The use of violence and the destruction of infrastructure and property during
protests by communities over service delivery has lately captured public
attention because of its alarming impact on the economy.

Between September and March 2010, violent protests cost almost R40m in
infrastructural and property damages in Mpumalanga.

Whilst many reasons have been advanced for the increased number of protests in
general in the country, President Jacob Zuma believes that South Africa was the
victim of its own successes since the dawn of democracy 20 years ago.

The successes have led to impatience by some communities for whom development
projects have been mooted but have not reached their areas yet, he said.

"In other countries, once they get freedom then everyone must see for
themselves. That's why there are no protests," Zuma said.

He expressed the opinion at the recent SA Democratic Teachers Congress (Sadtu)
national congress in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni.

A research report by the University of Johannesburg's Social Change Research
Unit shows that disruptive and violent protests were often preceded by a process
of "claim making" and peaceful protests."However, urgent issues and specific
triggers can often spark violent protests. The frustration is such people are
willing to lose something for their cause," the report stated.

The Institute for Security Studies (ISS) has pointed out that there were
indications in some protests that criminals were exploiting the situation.

"In a number of places the police had to use force to stabilise the situation
and to restore order. Police action included arrests for looting, public
violence and various other crimes," the institute stated. This point was also
driven home by national police spokesperson Lt-Gen Solomon Makgale: "Protesting
for the provision of services is not an issue per se. It is often the violence
and acts of criminality by elements piggybacking on the legitimate demands of
the people that often create an unnecessary confrontations between the police
and the protesters."

russelm@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              758 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday

Violent protests undo learning

SECTION: HUMAN INTEREST

LENGTH: 236 words


DAMAGE to university property during student protests is extremely distasteful
and abhorrent.
 More disturbing is the degenerate quality of the students' elected leadership.


 When I was a student, I helped lead many protests based on specific issues
after all attempts to negotiate had failed. Planning and co-ordination were
always meticulously managed.
 There will always be those who resort to criminality, but it is the task of
leaders to call for discipline and maintain order. I don't remember being part
of a protest that resulted in damage to property. We knew the university
belonged to us and to future generations, and needed to be protected.
 The recent protests in Limpopo during which cars were burnt, the University of
KwaZulu-Natal protest that caused damage to property, and the recent mayhem at
the Tshwane University of Technology that resulted in 18 cars being burnt are
startling evidence of diminished student leadership. Student councils fail to
lead students during the protests they initiate, and are then overpowered by the
populist frontrunners.
 The leaders tacitly allow violence as it validates their strength and captures
the country's attention.
  Electoral considerations may be at play, but ill-disciplined leaders face
criminal charges for damage. - Khaye Nkwanyana o Nkwanyana is spokesman for
Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande but writes in his personal
capacity

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2014 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              760 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            August 14, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Prices of fruits, vegetable witness increase

LENGTH: 241  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Aug. 14 -- The prices of fruits and vegetable have

witnessed increase due to protests calls on August, 14 in federal capital by
Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) and Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT).

The vendors of fruits and vegetable expressed concerns over the

protests demonstration which has interrupted the normal life of the citizens.

The vendors said that the PTI and PAT are responsible for hike in the

prices of fruits and vegetable, saying that their protests calls have no clear
agenda.

Sarwar Khan, a fruit vendor said that the prices of fruits have

increased due to short of supply in the fruit markets.

He said that the local administration should specify separate

locations for these kind of protests which are causing loss of their small
business.

Meanwhile, the labor community also expressed concerns over the

protests demonstration and demanded that the political parties should avoid
protests calls which are creating problems for commonman.

Shafiullah, a daily wager labour said that he has failed to get labor

due to these protests calls and it is not fair with them (Labours) by the
political parties creating chaos and uncertainty in the country.

Inter-city transporters also expressed displeasure over the PTI and

PAT long marchs

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              761 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                  May 28, 2014

Turkish group calls for protests this weekend to mark anniversary of Gezi.

LENGTH: 242  words


Taksim Solidarity, the main organiser of last year's Gezi Park unrests, has
called for a mass protest on Saturday to mark the anniversary of the event.

The call by Taksim Solidarity raises the prospects of renewed clashes ahead of
the presidential elections in August. Taksim Solidarity is an umbrella
organisation of labour unions, leftist parties, and civil groups. What started
out as an environmental protest in Istanbul's Gezi Park quickly spiralled into
anti-government protests after a police crackdown on the protesters, a year ago.
Protests and clashes between police and protesters continued throughout the
summer across the nation, leaving at least seven people dead. Thousands of
people were injured and arrested. According to police records, more than 3mn
people attended last summer's protests in 79 cities. Anti-government protests
sparked by Gezi posed the biggest challenge to Erdogan's decade-old rule.

It is difficult to predict how many people would respond to the call by Taksim
Solidarity to take to the streets this weekend as the defiant mood among
government critics seems to have changed after the ruling AKP's strong showing
in the March local elections, giving him the upper hand in the political
struggle. Police has maintained presence on Taksim since last summer and does
not allow any protests there. It prevented trade unions from entering Istanbul's
Taksim Square on May Day that sparked clashes in other parts of the city.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              763 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hindustan

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday

Stop on protest demonstration in Karbala Nagar

LENGTH: 153  words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, March 29 -- The high court has put a stop on protest demonstration in
Karbala Nagar at Jor Bagh. On B.K. Dutt Colony resident Avtar Lal Gill's
petition, Justice Manmohan issued orders to put a stop on the proposed protest
demonstration on March 31 saying that the decided spot for protest demonstration
is Ramlila Maidan or Jantar-Mantar.

Protest demonstrations can be conducted here by taking official permission. It
should be known that the controversy which ensued after a nursery was built on
the Karbala land has also been the cause of violent protest in the area earlier.

Reference: Original article of this translated version is available at
http://paper.hindustantimes.com/epaper/viewer.aspx; Delhi edition; pg 3

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Hindustan. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Hindustan Media Ventures Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              764 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Recording shows Erdogan refused to ease tensions during Gezi Park protests

LENGTH: 500  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Leaked audio recordings uploaded onto YouTube by an anonymous
user allegedly of a phone conversation between former Interior Minister Muammer
Güler and businessman Cemal Kalyoncu during the Gezi Park protests last summer
reveal that the minister had asked Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to allow
demonstrators to enter Gezi Park to make a press statement in exchange for
ending the protests, a proposal which Erdogan refused.



The Gezi Park protests, which began as a sit-in demonstration, quickly spread to
the whole country and evolved into anti-government protests. The conversation,
which was apparently wiretapped on June 1 while the protests were at their peak,
reveals that Güler, in an attempt to ease tensions which were extremely high
during that period, had pleaded with Prime Minister Erdogan to accept
protesters' offer to make a press statement in the park, which had been closed
off by the government after the protests heated.

The protesters had apparently asked Güler, through the meditation of some
deputies, for permission to enter Gezi Park to make a press statement, promising
to end the protests if they were allowed to do so. The alleged conversation
between Güler and Kalyoncu suggests that Erdogan feared the protesters would not
leave the park once they were let in and denied permission.

The voice allegedly of Güler also cursed the protesters, saying the government
would throw the protesters out of Gezi Park by force if the prime minister's
fears came true.

Today's Zaman could not verify the authenticity of the recording but if the
controversial recording is genuine, it reveals Prime Minister Erdogan refused to
ease tensions during the Gezi Park protests which subsequently escalated and led
to violent clashes between the police and protesters.

The 2013 protests in Turkey began on May 28 initially to oppose the urban
development plan for Istanbul's Taksim Gezi Park. The protests were sparked by
outrage as the protesters conducting a sit-in in the park were violently forced
out by riot police. Subsequently, supporting protests and clashes took place
across Turkey protesting plenty of other concerns.

Nearly a month ago, video footage released of the Gezi Park protests was found
to have refuted an alleged attack on a headscarved woman in Kabatas on June 1,
2013 during the protests. The incident was frequently repeated by Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan in an attempt to portray the protests as being hooligan in
nature.

In another attempt to stigmatize the Gezi protestors, Erdogan had also accused
them of drinking alcohol in a mosque. The mosque story was also later found to
be untrue, damaging Erdogan's credibility. In leaked video footage, the
demonstrators who sought refuge in a mosque appeared to have sustained injuries
and are wounded. The imam of the mosque apparently opened the doors of the
mosque to those running away from the police seeking refuge.

(Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHANCopyright © 2014 Cihan News Agency.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2014 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              765 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday

ISTU announces anti-govt protest

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 238  words


KATHMANDU: Institutional School Teachers' Union (ISTU) today announced a
four-month-long protest against the government to make the latter address its
demands.

The ISTU said it will start the first phase of its peaceful protest tomorrow by
submitting a memorandum to district education officers in all 75 districts. It
said the teachers will stage a hunger strike in their third-phase protest if
their demands remain unfulfilled even after the second-phase protest.

Mukunda Gautam, ISTU president, said they had to opt for a fresh protest after
the Ministry of Education paid no heed to their requests to address their
concerns. He said, "On June 2, we submitted a charter of demands to the MoE with
the ultimatum that expired yesterday. We announced a fresh protest today as our
concerns remained unaddressed."

ISTU has been seeking a raise for teachers of institutional schools at a time
when the government has increased salaries and allowances of teachers associated
with public schools. It has sought regulations for teachers of institutional
schools and their inclusion in preparation of policies for institutional
schools.

Other demands include formation of School Management Committees at institutional
schools with participation of teachers, management of Teachers' Welfare Fund for
personality development of teachers, compulsory training for teachers of
institutional schools, and scientific and transparent fee structure.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              766 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Egypt and Turkey Share Common Ground

LENGTH: 753  words


What do the protests in Egypt and Turkey have in common?  It's an easy answer;
there are many similarities, but the central focus is 'women's rights.'  Both
Morsi and Erdogan wanted to institute sharia law, which both the women of Egypt
and Turkey share common ground in their resistance of its implementation.


The demonstrations in Turkey began in May as a peaceful protest to the proposed
destruction of Gezi Park in Taksim Square.  As security forces physically
attempted to remove the protestors, thousands of Istanbul citizens joined the
early group.  Soon the event turned into an angry protest against the government
of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
He was fairly popular when elected, then he began to attempt a change in the
country's policies and enforce an autocratic form or rule.  Although Turkey's
largest religious base is Islamic, the diverse people of the country resisted
making the nation as 'Islamic state,' and force sharia law upon all of its
people.
And the protests are not over, they have become a 'weekend event.'
"Turkey is peaceful, but it's tense," warned Mustafa Akyol, a newspaper
columnist and author of the book "Islam Without Extremes."
Akyol believes the protests have polarized the nation.
"If the current mood goes on, I'm afraid the govermment will be growingly more
intolerant of criticism and protests, and this will make criticisms and protests
even more furious. And we will get into this vicious cycle which is really not
good for anyone in the country," Akyol said.
Erdogan, like Morsi, claimed that the protests are a conspiracy.
"They thought that no one would react, that they could do away with the election
results and could usurp people's rights. They and the forces behind them were
wrong," Erdogan told journalists at an iftar he attended in the Turkish capital,
Ankara, this week.
He also claims that the protests in Egypt are linked to those in Istanbul.
"The Egyptian people did not remain silent. They went public and asked, 'Where
is my vote?' Those who were present at Gezi Park thought that they represent all
of Turkey," Erdogan said.
He, of course, was speaking of the 'Muslim Brotherhood,' who support Morsi.
Ordinary pots and pans are the people's weapons, banging them in protest against
the government.
"Pots and pans, these are a crime," Erdogan told journalists at another iftar
last week in the Turkish city of Kastamonu.
"Nobody has the right to disturb anybody else. ... This has nothing to do with
freedom. On the contrary this is interfering with somebody else's freedom,"
Erdogan added.

In Egypt, women have taken to the streets in large numbers.  They are demanding
true democratic rule, where they will be treated fairly, and that men will not
dominate their society and their country.
Tactics of sexual assault and rape have not deterred women from taking part in
the revolt.  Some women choose to wear the traditional hijab, and some wear
western clothes and make-up.  But they all demand to be heard.
Zillah Eisenstein, who is an internationally acclaimed writer, and activist, and
Distinguished Scholar of Anti-Racist Feminist Political Theory at Ithaca
College, Ithaca, New York, wrote an op-ed piece for Aljazeera regarding the
Egyptian revolution.
Ms. Eisenstein wrote:  "This massive movement made up of hugely differing
identities and interests may not find a way to organize themselves quickly
enough, but they are trying. And it may be that the military will not do their
bidding for them in a way that moves things forward progressively.  But this is
the initial intent and this intent needs to be applauded. Whatever happens next
should not negate the unique offering that the Egyptian people have created."
She says that if the Morsi supporters are examined, very few women are involved,
and that in most cases there were none present.
She also says that; "Many of these newly mobilized women are from rural areas
and Upper Egypt and many are Coptic Christian women."
She also claims that the majority of the sexual assaults on women, meant to
discourage their involvement, have been committed by Morsi supporters, the
Muslim Brotherhood.
The women's movement has been active in the United States for decades, but is
increasing in its fervor in the 21st century, as many members of our government
attempt to eliminate their rights.  It is obviously becoming a world-wide
movement.
Egypt and Turkey have a commonality, they share a movement that seeks to stop
the oppression of women, and in that they have found common ground.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              767 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 179

LENGTH: 146  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club.

According to details, Mst Taj Bibi Brohi, resident of Moro continued her protest
demonstration for the arrest of her son Amanullah Brohi's accused murderers
including SSP Khalid Mustafa Korai and others. A woman named Ghulam Sakina w/o
Gul Muhammad Mallah, resident of Matli staged a protest demonstration for arrest
of the accused men to injure her son Sadam Hussain Mallah, A widow named Mst
Saaran Ujjan, resident of village Madad Ali Talpur district Tando Allahyar
recorded a protest demonstration against the occupation of her home.

A man named Ahmed Soomro, resident of Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration
against the land grabbers. The sacked employee of the SSGC Pir Bux Bughio
continued his protest demonstration for the restoration of his service.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              768 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Speaker: I'll be at protests to ease tensions

BYLINE: BRENDAN MCDAID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words


ASSEMBLY speaker William Hay has vowed to attend future loyalist flag protests.

The Foyle MLA claims he will be at the protests in an attempt to calm tensions
after being contacted by police.

He said he and his DUP colleagues from Derry City Council have been asked to be
on the ground for protests in the city.

Mr Hay claimed senior police figures were among those who had requested
politicians attend to try and halt any descent into violence.

He said there was deep "hurt" in the unionist and loyalist communities across
Northern Ireland following the removal of the Union flag from Belfast's City
Hall.

The veteran politician added that if people felt they needed to protest, then
there was an onus on public representatives to do what they can to ensure their
concerns are not used by others intent on causing trouble.

His comments come after DUP party leader Peter Robinson called for all protests
to be suspended.

Mr Hay said: "When police do ring public representatives, it is important at
least we are there to be seen on the ground to ensure we don't have any
violence.

"I think we can have that calming effect. I intend to use my influence whenever
I can use my influence.

"I am the only unionist MLA for Foyle and I will go out when I am asked to make
sure these protests don't turn into violent protests.

"My ultimate aim is that if people feel the need to protest, we should be there
to use our influence to ensure they pass off peacefully."

He further warned: "People should not go outside the law and should not be
coming out to protest with scarves over their faces or trying to create tension.

"These protests must be within the law and even the blocking of roads is outside
the law. There is no place in the unionist cause for violence.

"People who deliberately set out to cause trouble have no loyalty to anybody and
no loyalty to the Union flag."

Mr Hay stressed that the hurt felt among the unionist community needed to be
articulated and demonstrated in a "proper and dignified manner".

INSIDE q Liam Clarke: Hay and the dignity of the Assembly Comment, Page 35

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Influence: William Hay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              769 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday

Protests in northwest Pakistan to protest sectarian killings

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by Karachi-based moderate, privately-owned Express Tribune
newspaper website

Protests in northwest Pakistan to protest sectarian killings

Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on
17 August

Skardu: A second day of complete shutter-down was observed in certain areas of
Gilgit-Baltistan, with demonstrations and rallies being held in different areas
in protest of the killing of 25 people by terrorists, Express News reported on
Friday.

Following protests and a call by Shia clerics of Anjuman-e-Imamia Baltistan
against the delay in the arrest of the perpetrators, the local government also
announced three days of mourning, with educational institutions and offices
being closed for the period.

Protests and demonstrations were held in different areas and it has been said
that Eidul Fitr will be observed in mourning as well.

Earlier, gunmen pulled more than 20 Shias from a bus and shot them dead in the
third such incident in six months, officials confirmed.

Officials said that the bus was ambushed in the hills of Babusar Top, around
160km north of Islamabad.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 17 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              771 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Be careful with threat to protest

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 473 words


NON-GOVERNMENT organisations, unions and the students from the University of
Papua New Guinea are planning a protest march today.

The protest is over several issues that have been hitting the headlines in the
past month. Chief among them are concerns from these groups of the Government's
move to enact legislation to make the judiciary "more accountable'' and the
deferral of the elections for six months.

The protest is to show that the majority of the people see these two actions by
Parliament as not in the best interest of the spirit of the National
Constitution. They are fearful, these and other actions taken by Parliament is
to gradually erode the Constitution and establish Parliament as more powerful
over the Judiciary. And this is dangerous. We agree.

The police yesterday afternoon ruled that they will not allow the protest o go
ahead. Under the law, protests organisors have to give notice of intention to
march seven days in advance. Even then, that does not mean a protest will go
ahead. It has to be approved by the Police Commissioner.

On this case, police are fearful the protest organisors cannot guarantee a
peaceful march and so have not given [permission for it. This is understandable
as in so many cases here and anywhere in the world where masses have taken to
the streets, the majority are usually people who really do not believe in the
political cause of such protests and tag along for the opportunity to loot when
things get out of control.

In our case here in the National Capital District, things are not good. We have
divisions in support for various factions. Last week, we saw the ugly head of
that when police divisions clashed with each other resulting in a number of
servicemen being injured. The police commissioner and his commanders must be
mindful of that and have no choice but to disallow the protest to take place.

This is not to say that he protest has not merit. It is being organised to show
the people's displeasure at the recent decisions of Parliament. Parliament for
its part and the Government of Prime Minister Peter O'Neill should take heed of
the ground swell of support for the protest. The temperature is rising and it
must know that people do not like the way it is using its might to govern.

We believe in the concerns the protestors and say they must be raised. But we
also recognise the threat of the protest on public property as well as public
safety. We believe, rather than march, the organisors should may be look to
encouraging their people to travel to central areas around the city and lead the
[public in a sit in protest during working hours to show the Government and
Parliament they are not happy with the way they have been handling things.

There is too much that can go wrong when the mob rules. We appeal for common
sense and for sanity to prevail for the common good.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              772 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday

Different protests staged in Khairpur

BYLINE:  Muhammad Hassan Phulpoto

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 173

LENGTH: 388  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Khairpur on Friday.

According to details, the activists of different political and social
organizations took out a protest rally for the provision of the status of
national language to Sindhi. The activists of the Sindhi Adabi Sangat, Jeay
Sindh Qaumi Mahaz, Primary Teachers' Association, United Labor Federation,
Hamdard Social Welfare Organization, Awami Tehreek and other parties
participated in the protest rally which was led by Amjad Mahesar, Asadullah
Memon, Syed Imtiaz Hussain Shah, Hizbullah Soomro and others. The contract based
employees of the Public Health Department recorded a protest demonstration under
the leadership of Nazir Hussain Marri, Mureed Haider Junejo, Lutif Dino Marri
and others for the regularization of their services.

The residents of village Khaskheli staged a protest demonstration against the
actions of the influential men. The leaders including Sher Muhammad, Arbelo,
Niaz Hussain and others told the media men that the influential men of their
area including Fida Hussain, Shafi Muhammad, Nazar Muhammad, Mureed Ali and
others have taken away the electric wires and poles which were brought by the
concerned authorities to provide the electricity connections to the villagers.
They condemned the actions of the local men and demanded of the concerned
authorities to take notice of the matter, otherwise they have threatened to
accelerate their protest circle.

The residents of different areas staged protest demonstrations against the SEPCO
authorities for continuing the several hours unannounced load shedding in their
areas. They demanded of the high-ups to take immediate measures in the matter to
provide them relief, otherwise they have threatened to accelerate their protest
circle. Two men namely Bashir Kalhoro and Ramzan Mangnejo recorded a protest
demonstration against the Personal Assistant of the Registrar of the Shah Abdul
Latif University Khairpur namely Abdul Rasool Lakho for getting Rs 200,000 from
them for the provision of jobs to them. They added that the PA of the Registrar
SALU despite getting Rs 200,000 has not provided jobs to them due to which they
are facing many hardships. They demanded of the concerned authorities to take
notice of the matter to provide them justice.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              773 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Concessions offered as protests continue

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 246 words


EGYPT'S vice president met a broad representation of major opposition groups for
the first time last night and offered new concessions including freedom of the
press, release of those detained since anti-government protests began nearly two
weeks ago and the eventual lifting of the country's emergency laws. Two of the
groups that attended the meeting said this was only a first step in a dialogue
which has yet to meet their central demand - the immediate removal of President
Hosni Mubarak.

"People still want the President to step down," said Mostafa al-Naggar, a
protest organiser and supporter of Mohamed ElBaradei, a Nobel Peace laureate and
one of the country's leading democracy advocates. "The protest continues because
there are no guarantees and not all demands have been met," he added.

The talks came as David Cameron discussed Egyptian crisis with US president
Barack Obama after a flight carrying Britons fleeing the stricken country
touched down in the UK.

The Foreign Office chartered-flight arrived at Gatwick Airport at around 9pm
yesterday, carrying 70 ex-pats and tourists on board.

Mr Cameron and Mr Obama spoke on the phone to reaffirm their desire for the
transition to a "broad-based" government to begin immediately.

A Downing St spokesman said: "The Prime Minister said a clear and credible road
map to change was needed as soon as possible, including a path to free and fair
elections. They agreed to keep in close touch in the coming days."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A baby, wearing a hat bearing the word Leave is held aloft by a
protester An Egyptian anti-government demonstrator waves national flags as
thousands gather in Tahrir Square yesterday Pictures: LEFTERIS PITARAKIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              774 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1778

LENGTH: 284  words


Different  protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Tuesday. According to details, a
woman namely Hameeda alias Fouzia Rind, the wife a police constable namely Khan
Muhammad Punjabi, resident of Railway Colony with her four children staged a
protest demonstration against the torture of her husband. A man namely Sahil
Gulab Bheel, resident of Hari camp Kotri staged a protest against the atrocities
of an influential landlord of his area.

The members of the Oil and Gas Development Company (OGDC) Labour Union Sindh
under the leadership of Abdul Hameed Soomro and others staged a protest
demonstration in favor of their demands. The leaders of the Rehabilitation of
Flood Affectees Sindh Tehreek under the leadership of Abdul Hafeez Jatoi, Ali
Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for the immediate
rehabilitation of the IDPs of Sindh.

The IDPs residing at the camps of Noonari village Hyderabad under the leadership
of Abdul Hadi Rind, Manzoor Gadehi and others staged a protest demonstration
against non-provision of the facilities to them. The members of Tanzeem
Falah-o-Bahbood for Handicaps under the leadership of Nadeem Ahmed Shaikh,
Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest demonstration for the provision of
jobs to the disabled persons.

The workers of PPP Bano Chapter of district Thatta under the leadership of
Mushtaq Mangarhar, Muhammad Eisa Bhatti and others staged a protest
demonstration against the local party leadership. The members of the Hyderabad
Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and
others continued their protest demonstration against Habib Group Farms.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              775 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday

Different protest demonstrations staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1750

LENGTH: 153  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
press club Hyderabad on Sunday. According to details, the activists of JSQM
Hyderabad Chapter under the leadership of Sagar Hanif Burdi and others staged
protest demonstration for arrest of killers of their party leader Majid Memon.

A leader of PML (N) Hyderabad Qadir Bux Lakho Staged a protest demonstration in
the favor of his demand. A social leader of Dadu Comrade Anwar Mallah staged a
protest demonstration in favor of his demand. The flood victim women of the
relief camp of New Sabzi Mandi Hyderabad under the leadership of Razia Khoso and
others staged a protest demonstration against the administration of the relief
camp for not providing them relief goods.

The residents of Baban Shah Colony and G.O.R Colony Hyderabad under the
leadership of Parvez Lodhi and others staged a protest demonstration in the
favor of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              776 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            November 22, 2010 Monday

Protests against gas loadshedding start today

BYLINE:  OUR STAFF REPORTER

SECTION: Vol. XXIV No. 284

LENGTH: 361  words


All Industrial Associations of Lahore including All Pakistan Textile Processing
Mills Association, Ferozepur Road Industrial Association, Shahdra Industrial
Association, Lahore Township Industrial Association, Sheikhupura Chamber of
Commerce & Industry, Pakistan Industrial and Traders Associations Front (PIAF)
and other industrial Associations have decided to launch a series of protests
from Tuesday (today) against the 4-day gas loadshedding.

In the first phase, a strong protest would be staged on November 23rd at
Shahdra. The protest rally would be started from Zeno Textile Mills, Bara Dari,
Farrukhabad, Shahdra and reach Main road where thousands industrialists and
industrial workers would join the protest rally. The LCCI former President Mian
Anjum Nisar, Central Chairman of Processing Association Maqs-ood Ahmad Butt and
leaders of PIAF would lead the protest. While addressing the Organizing
Committee of protest rally, Mian Anjum Nisar lamented that wrong govt policies
and mismanaged affairs, the industry had almost collapsed. He said had right
steps been taken well in time, the situation would have been far better.

He said that sword of unemployment was hanging on the heads of industrial
workers in the wake of non-availability of gas but the govt was playing the role
of silent spectator. He said that the industrial area which was hub of
production was presenting a deserted look as a large number of industrial units
had stopped production.  While condemning the discrimination in gas
distrubition, he said that Punjab was facing massive gas load shedding. He
demanded of the govt to stop favoritism. He said that the economic crisis would
further deepen in coming days as industry has failed to fulfill existing export
orders what to talk of any new orders.

He said that those who were thinking that economy would be back on rails soon
were actually living in fool's paradise as the situation has already gone out of
hands and it would need special measures to control the situation.

He appealed to the Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani to look into the matter
and save hundreds and thousands of industrial workers from going unemployed.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              777 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 11, 2010 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Dadu Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1555

LENGTH: 121  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the people in favour of their
demands outside the Dadu Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
employees of the Population Welfare Department staged a protest demonstration
for the restoration of employees' quota and regularization of the contract based
employees.

The employees of the Livestock Department recorded a protest demonstration for
the promotions of the Stock Assistants. The lower staff of the Education
Department Dadu staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of the
contract based lower staff of the Education Department Sindh. The sacked
employees of the utility stores staged a protest demonstration for the
reinstatement of their services.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              778 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

Hundreds protest at Dail over job losses;
Dail Protest

LENGTH: 79 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hundreds of people have taken part in a protest outside the Dail
against job losses and government cutbacks.


Hundreds of people have taken part in a protest outside the Dail against job
losses and government cutbacks.

The protest last night was the latest in a series of such weekly events
organised by the Right to Work campaign.

An estimated 4 - 500 people took part in the protest, only half the number in
the previous week's event.

The demonstration passed off without incident. The Right to Work campaign has
pledged to continue its weekly protests despite the fall off in numbers.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              781 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Middle America rises up in protest

BYLINE: The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 632 words


Sep. 17--The picture that emerged from the coverage by most of what are still
described as the "mainstream" media of the Tea Party protests Saturday in
Washington, D.C., was of a dangerous, violence-prone fringe group of haters who
have unaccountably come to dislike President Barack Obama and all his works.
Many were more than tinged with a bit of racism.

This is no doubt comforting to those who find it difficult to imagine any
opposition to this administration and its ambitious plans intellectually or
morally creditable. But this is hardly an accurate picture.

Following up on large-scale protests with effective political action is
notoriously difficult. But it appears that this protest represented a genuine
middle-American wave of concern, sometimes exaggerated, at the truly stunning
expansion of government power and spending that the Obama administration has
begun and apparently plans to continue. Obama supporters would be wise not to
take too seriously efforts to marginalize or downplay this sentiment.

Of course, any large-scale political demonstration, especially one that attracts
TV cameras, will feature a noisy fringe element, and this one was no exception.
Signs and posters equating Obama with Hitler and Stalin could be found in almost
as great abundance as signs equating George W. Bush with Hitler at anti-war and
other demonstrations during the previous administration. Such signs tend to
confirm the prejudices of those who oppose the cause or causes demonstrators are
espousing and discredit those with sincere concerns, but there seems no way to
keep them out.

Crowd estimates at such events also tend to vary wildly, with opponents
preferring to stick to modest guesses and proponents to inflated estimates. Thus
estimates of Saturday's crowds varied from about 60,000 to 2 million. Local
officials pegged it at "in excess of 75,000" while a local police agency
estimated 1.2 million. The National Park Service doesn't make estimates anymore.

Nick Gillespie of Reason.tv (which put together a video with interviews of
participants, organizers and speakers, at www.reason.com/blog/#136105) compared
various estimates and schematics of the space on the National Mall and
Pennsylvania Avenue with his own experience. He figured 100,000 to 250,000 was a
reasonable range. The crowd was much smaller than the estimated 850,000 who
attended Obama's inauguration, but it was well into six figures.

Gillespie, while noting too many crazies for his taste, found most of the crowd
"stunningly normal." They were concerned mainly with the flamboyant spending the
Obama administration has begun, but also with what they see as an attempted
government takeover of health care, unaccountable policy "czars" and taxpayer
bailouts. Most expressed disdain for both Republicans and Democrats.

Widespread gerrymandering makes the likelihood of the wish expressed by many to
throw them all out come the next election rather minute. Cleveland Democrat
Dennis Kucinich is as likely to win easy re-election as are Urbana Republican
Jim Jordan or Bowling Green Republican Bob Latta, in part because their
districts are drawn to include mostly those who agree with their politics. But
the demonstration was by and large a legitimate and heartfelt expression of
alarm over the expansion of government. Whether that alarm will be translated
into effective political action is another question.

To see more of The Lima News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.limanews.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Lima News, Ohio Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090917-LM-EDITORIAL-Middle-America-rises-up-in-protest-0917

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2009 The Lima News


                              782 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday

Kosovo Security Force minister, disbanded members reach agreement to end protest

LENGTH: 544 words


Excerpt from report by public Radio-Television Kosovo TV on 23 February

[Presenter] Members of the [disbanded] Kosovo Protection Force [KPC] who were
not accepted at the Kosovo Security Force[ KSF] lost their patience today. The
protest which took place in front of the KSF headquarters briefly escalated
today when protesters tried to forcefully enter in the building. After police
intervention, the protesters stepped back and during the afternoon hours they
finally reached an agreement with the Kosovo Security Force.

[Reporter] This is how members of the disbanded KPS who have not been accepted
in the Kosovo Security Force protested today [footage of protests shown]. The
members tried to enter the former KPS HQ building by force. The building is now
headquarters of the Kosovo Security Force. The fight between the former KPC
members and the police lasted for a while, until special police units succeeded
to move the crowd back and to restore the defence cordon at the entrance of the
Kosovo Security Force [building]. The protesters came with the same requests as
before: resignation of the KSF Minister, Fehmi Mujota, and the force's
commander, General Lieutenant Sylejman Selimi. They also asked for revision of
the recruitment selection process.

[Protester] [We will] Stay here, we will wait at the entrance until they resign.
Don't move from here. We will not go inside. There will be not peaceful protest
anymore. [Indistinct sentence omitted].

[Reporter] During the protest members of the former KPC became divided and it
was difficult to know who they can rely on, on the protest committee4 or on the
opinion of individual protesters. While the committee asked the protesters to
bring the protest to an end and to go home until a new decision [has been
reached], some of the protesters were of different opinion.

[Muhamet Gubetini, protest committee member] I urge you in the name of the
committee to end protest and go back. We will inform you what's next through the
media.

[Agim Derguti, protester] I urge all members of the KPC who are present here to
stay and to continue the protest tomorrow as well. It was enough, we will
possibly do not have a protest committee anymore, but we, all members of the
KPC, will organize ourselves.

[Reporter] However, during the afternoon hours, the government officials, the
KSF minister and the organizers of the protest, reached an agreement to end the
protest. Minister Mujota emphasized that from March onward every member of the
Kosovo Protection Corps who failed the [recruitment selection] exam, will
receive an invitation for training in Vushtrri/Vucitrn if they meet the minimal
criteria and standards. Meanwhile, the protest committee confirmed that there
will be no more protests.

[Fehmi Mujota, security force minister] The right to protest is a democratic
right. I would like to use this opportunity and to thank everyone for their
correct behaviour. We don't want to believe that there were efforts for
misbehaviour [indistinct sentence omitted].

[Reporter] Minister Mujota also said that protest was not a way to help the
process of the KSF development, therefore he expected from each person to be
calm and to understand their position and role.

Source: RTK TV, Pristina, in Albanian 1830 gmt 23 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              783 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            January 18, 2009 Sunday

Gaza protests

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words


PEACEFUL PROTESTS against Israel's bombing of Gaza were staged in Christchurch
and Dunedin yesterday but another in Auckland saw one arrest. The protests were
co-ordinated by the Global Peace and Justice group, which claimed Rakon
Industries in Mt Wellington, Auckland, provided crystal oscillators for bombs
used by the Israeli airforce. Spokesman Mike Treen said the Auckland protest,
outside Rakon, was largely peaceful but that red paint bombs were thrown at the
building and the word "kills" written next to "Rakon" on it. A man was arrested
for that incident. Shoes were also thrown at the building, "to signify the blood
that is being shed in Gaza", Treen said. Christchurch protest spokesman Dan Rae
said 400-500 people were involved in action there. Two "random" people
supporting Israel appeared but were countered by Jewish people supporting the
protest. In Dunedin, about 100 people took part in a peaceful protest. A march
on Parliament is planned for Tuesday, with protesters asked to bring or make a
key as a symbol of "Palestinian dispossession".

TRAGEDY LIVE ON AIR / World, A16

---------------

CAPTION:

Protesters in Christchurch demonstrate yesterday against attacks on the Gaza
Strip.

Picture: The Press

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              784 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

LCHS students stage protest

BYLINE: Jose L. Medina

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 378 words


Sun-News reporter

Students at Las Cruces High School organized an impromptu protest Thursday, with
plans for another possible protest today.

During the lunch hour, about 50 students gathered in a vacant lot across the
street from the LCHS campus on El Paseo Road to oppose proposed changes in
immigration law under consideration in Congress.

Students waved the Mexican flag and some painted their faces with the Mexican
colors while chanting "Mexico, Mexico, Mexico!"

The protest threatened to turn into a full-blown walkout as more students joined
the protesters toward the end of the lunch period.

In the past week students around the country have staged walkouts in protest of
the proposed legislation. Students from at least seven high schools in the El
Paso area walked out of class Thursday.

The Las Cruces High protest was diffused by Principal Nyeta Haines who told the
students she respected their right to protest but not when they should be in
class.

"Do you know what the law is and do you know what you are protesting?" Haines
asked the students.

Some students responded that they were "protesting a law."

Haines told the students they needed to return to class and said they could
protest again today, but only if they did it in an organized and peaceful manner
and only during their lunch time.

Students impeded traffic as they ran back across the street to the campus.

Haines said her main concern was the security of the students as they walk back
and forth across El Paseo Road and into the flow of traffic.

Haines said it was likely students will protest again today.

There are no known plans for students at other area high schools to conduct such
protests.

The Las Cruces Police Department said it will assist with security but only if
the school district requests it.

"That's a school issue," said LCPD officer Carlos Wooten. "If the school
requests us, we will take whatever measures.

LCPS spokeswoman Jo Galvan said the district encourages a student's right to
speak his or her mind, but like Haines, wants them to do so in an orderly way.

"We want them to do it in a safe manner and we hope that they're learning
something by vocalizing their opinion," Galvan said.

Jose Medina can be reached at jmedina@lcsun-news.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              785 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 1, 2005, Tuesday

FORCE ACCUSED OVER PROTEST

BYLINE: BY NEIL ELKES

SECTION: Worcs Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 210 words


A SIKH lawyer has launched a High Court challenge over police handling of
protests against a controversial play at the Birmingham Rep Theatre.

The case challenges the handling of the first protest against the play Behzti
which depicted acts of rape and violence in a Sikh temple.

It is claimed that police were heavy-handed in dealing with a peaceful protest
on December 16. The protesters claim they were only handing out leaflets and
talking to theatre goers.

They say several were arrested as police used anti-social behaviour regulations,
designed to tackle Christmas binge drinkers, to disperse the protest.
Campaigners say this was in breech of their Human Rights to peacefully protest.

Nusrat Chagtai of Public Interest Lawyers will make his case at the Royal Court
of Justice on Thursday.

He said: "Parliament could not have intended that anti-social behaviour orders
be used against peaceful protesters exercising their right to freedom of
expression and peaceful protest under the Human Rights Act. In this case."

The campaigners have distanced themselves from protests on the following nights
which erupted in violence after being hijacked by militant elements.

Producers cancelled the play following the protests

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              786 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                           October 1, 2003, Wednesday

FUEL PROTEST DRAWS TO A GRINDING HALT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 187 words


A threatened mass protest at petrol price hikes failed to materialise today.

Fuel protest leaders had urged motorists to stop their vehicles for one minute
at 8.30am today.

Motorway drivers had been asked to pull over on to the hard shoulder to register
their protest at the Treasury's 1.28p a litre hike in prices.

But motoring organisations reported a lack of enthusiasm for the protest.

"We have monitored all the motorways and have seen no sign of any protest," said
a spokesman for AA Roadwatch.

Earlier, the AA issued a warning to motorists that stopping on motorway hard
shoulders was illegal and dangerous.

The People's Fuel Lobby (PFL), which had organised the protest, had claimed it
had strong support.

Protester Andrew Spence of the PFL today claimed victory, despite failing to see
the traffic stop at 8.30am as he and fellow organisers had hoped.

"We have had protests in Manchester, London, Dartford, all over the place, and I
am over the moon," he said.

Supermarkets have announced they will absorb the fuel duty rise rather than pass
the increase on to customers.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Gazette Media Company Ltd


                              787 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 14, 2003

STUDENTS' IRAQ WALK-OUT DEMO

BYLINE: Noel Baker

LENGTH: 133 words


    THOUSANDS of secondary school students are set to walk out today in protest
at a possible war with Iraq.

    The protest - organised by the Youth Against War group - will see students
leaving school at lunchtime in Dublin, Cork, Limerick and Wexford.

    And organisers have warned that bigger protests will take place if war
breaks out.

    The latest teen protest follows a demonstration by 70 students from two
Dublin colleges yesterday .

    Pupils from Blakestown Community College and Coolmine College held a
walk-out protest and gathered at Blanchardstown shopping centre.

    They said they were following the example of schools in Northern Ireland who
staged a protest last week. Some students from Dublin protest outside the Dail
today.

    Saddam"s French Henchman - Pages 8-9


LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              788 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday

Serbian pro-Russian parties "in shock" after Russia criticizes Belgrade protests

LENGTH: 537 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 8 July

[Report by I.M. Jasnic and I. Nedic: "Russian Fear of Serbian Duck: Protests in
Belgrade Bother Kremlin, Pro-Russian Opposition in Shock"]

Pro-Russian parties that supported the Do Not Drown [vernacular: Ne Da(vi)mo
Beograd] protests were in shock yesterday after the Kremlin's attack on the
"duck" [protest symbol].

Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova yesterday accused the
United States of financing the antigovernment protests in Belgrade. Zakharova
said that "there is a deeply rooted practice of shameless interference in the
internal affairs" in the Balkans.

"The demonstrations have been directed against the leadership of a sovereign
country. The direct organizers of these protests are various NGOs that are
financed from abroad. It seems that for some reason, their foreign sponsors do
not trust the Serbian civic activists since US diplomats feel obliged personally
to take part in the protests and control the spending of the allocated funds,"
Zakharova said.

Interestingly, the antigovernment protests in Belgrade were originally supported
by the pro-Russian parties DSS [Democratic Party of Serbia] and Dveri [Gateway]!
After Moscow's statement yesterday, however, they now feel that "Zakharova's
claims need to be investigated."

"The reasons for the protests themselves are legitimate, but it is necessary to
investigate whether they are financed from abroad," DSS Chairperson Sanda
Raskovic Ivic tells Blic.

Dveri Chairman Bosko Obradovic now expresses scepticism about the organizers of
the protests, insisting that these are "NGOs and individuals that have been
financed from Western sources for years."

Radomir Lazovic, one of the organizers of the protests that have a yellow duck
for their symbol, says that Zakharova's claims are ridiculous and nonsensical.

"Russia openly supports Aleksandar Vucic's government and has now joined him in
diverting attention from the crimes committed in Hercegovacka Street [overnight
demolition of unlicensed buildings]. We have only recently learned that a US
Embassy staffer was at the protest since we do not cooperate with them," Lazovic
tells Blic.

Blic's Reporting Confirmed

Yesterday's statement by Maria Zakharova directly confirmed recent reporting by
Blic about Russia's efforts to expand its influence in Serbia, especially since
the crisis in Europe caused by Brexit.

Blic wrote that Russian capital is financing a growing number of media in Serbia
and that Russian President Vladimir Putin is trying to bring about a referendum
in Serbia on NATO and the European Union, to be held concurrently, if possible,
with next year's presidential election.

Dittmann: Serbia To Work Harder on Consolidating Rule of Law

US Ambassador Kyle Scott met yesterday with Prime Minister Vucic and
congratulated him on the opening of negotiation chapters in the EU accession
process.

Vucic also received German Ambassador Axel Dittmann and thanked him for the
support given in the EU negotiation process to Serbia by Angela Merkel.
Dittmann, for his part, told Vucic, among other things, that Serbia has to
invest additional efforts in the sphere of the rule of law.

Source: Blic website in Serbian 0000 gmt 8 Jul 16

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              789 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             June 30, 2016 Thursday

Federal Alliance decides to intensify protest

LENGTH: 224 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, June 30 -- The Federal Alliance on Thursday decided to further
strengthen the protest in the coming days.

The Secretariat meeting of Federal Alliance held to evaluate more than a
month-long Kathmandu-centric protest and chalk out future strategies decided to
intensify protest, according to Secretariat member, Keshav Jha.

At the first phase of the Kathmandu-centric protest, the Federal Alliance had
picketed Singha Durbar and Prime Minister's residence in Baluwatar and then had
organized corner assemblies in different parts of the Capital City.

The leaders are currently staging relay sit-in at Khullamanch.

Jha told Republica Online that they will step up the protest after the end of
the sit-in in mid July.

During the meeting, leaders vented their ire saying that there was a less
participation in the protests by Tarai Madhes Democratic Party and Sadhbhawana
Party.

TMDP Vice-chairman Brikhesh Chandra Lal defended the accusation by saying that
they failed to give time to the protest as they were focused on the General
Convention of the party.

Jha said that the leaders agreed to announce fresh protest by holding a meeting
after a week.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              790 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 10, 2016 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 131

LENGTH: 243  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the HPC on Monday. According to details, the activists of the Sindh
Small Industries Corporation, Employees' Union including President Noor Mohammad
Khoso and others staged a protest and said due to poor policies of the
government hundreds of employees have been deprived of their salaries since past
8 months. A man namely Ghulam Mustafa, resident of Kotri staged a protest
demonstration against the mill manager, who has removed him from the service
without any reason. A man namely Zameer Hussain staged a protest demonstration
against his stepmother Suraya Nisar Khokhar and alleged that his stepmother is
not giving him his due share of partnership in a private nursing school. A woman
namely Parveen, resident of Peeritabad staged a protest demonstration against
her husband Safeer Mohammad. A woman namely Shahnaz Mangi w/o Barkat Mangi,
resident of Kotri staged a protest demonstration against her husband for
physically abusing her and forcing her to prostitution. The residents of Tando
Adam including Zubair Ahmed, Raza Mohammad and others staged a protest
demonstration against the HESCO Subdivision Tando Adam for surplus charges on
electricity bills. The residents of Maitari including Mohammad Bachal Mallah and
others staged a protest demonstration against the local landlord Mir Mohammad
Shah for occupying their houses and issuing dire threats to them.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              791 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                   Intellinews - Bosnia and Herzegovina Today

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

Opposition SZP calls protest in Bosnia's Republika Srpska on May 14

LENGTH: 291  words


The opposition bloc Savez za Promjene (SZP) is planning a national protest in
Bosnia & Herzegovina's smaller entity, Republika Srpska, on May 14 against the
authorities' policies which it says have damaged the economy in the entity,
daily Nezavisne Novine reported on May 3.

The ruling Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD) has said it will call
a counter-protest on May 14, which raises concerns among citizens as to whether
the protests will go peacefully.

SZP has many times spoken out against the policies of president Milorad Dodik,
the leader of the SNSD, and the government of prime minister Zeljka Cvijanovic
(also of the SNSD).

SZP has invited all citizens to join the protest against the "catastrophic
situation" in Republika Srpska, "caused by the ruling party". It added that the
protest is being organised against all "criminals who have put in their pockets
the money intended to boost economic growth".

"The protest will allow the voices of all who are not satisfied with the system
to be heard, and this is a big majority of Republika Srpska's citizens," the
organisers said.

It is still not clear how many people will join the protest. According to one of
its organisers, more than 5,000 people are expected to participate.

SZP was set up in 2014 ahead of the general and presidential elections, with the
aim of ousting Dodik. It comprises several opposition parties including the Serb
Democratic Party (SDS), Party of Democratic Progress (PDP), National Democratic
Movement (NDP), Serb Radical Party (SRS RS), as well as two other parties that
joined in December last year - the Progressive Serbia Party (NS) and the
Movement for Justice and Order (PPR). In 204, SZP came second in the general
elections after Dodik's SNSD.


LOAD-DATE: May 04, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              792 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                             April 29, 2016 Friday

Protests were necessary - lecturer

BYLINE: Bongani Nkosi

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 161 words


#OutsourcingMustFall protests at the University of South Africa were necessary,
according to a lecturer who represented workers in talks with the university.


 Boitumelo Senokoane, who is also general secretary of staff union Academic &
Professional Staff Association, said protests were a way to put pressure on the
university to speedily abolish outsourcing.
 "It was necessary for [protests] to happen so that they make sure that the
vulnerable, poor and exploited are in-sourced eventually," he said.
 "Outsourcing was violence against the poorest of the poor. But in-sourcing
itself would not come voluntarily."
 Senokoane is one of staff members and students currently suspended for their
role in the protests.
 He would not deny there were some violent activities during protests, more so
on March 4.
  Unisa vice-chancellor Mandla Makhanya said on that day cars were torched,
study material vandalised and attempts were made to burn down the chemistry
laboratory. -

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              793 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              April 4, 2016 Monday

Regulatory update: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; CraneFlag LLC , has
submitted -Application- (A-2015-2479082)

LENGTH: 557  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission has issued the following
document (case):



 The Consolidated Case View displays the case information, actions taken on the
case, and links to public documents associated with the case, which is
identified by the Docket Number A-2015-2479082.





 Case Summary

 Docket Number A-2015-2479082     Active

 Applicant:     CRANEFLAG LLC     Utility Code:     8917465

 Complainant:         Utility Name:     CraneFlag LLC

 Respondent:         Utility Type:     Truck

 Responsible Bureau:     TUS     Efiling Confirmation Number (Case):

 Date Filed:     4/21/2015     Date Posted:     4/27/2015

 Case Description:     Application of CraneFlag LLC for approval to transport,
by motor vehicle, persons in the experimental service of transportation Network
Service for passenger trips between point in Pennsylvania.

 Daily Actions

 Action Date     Description     Posted Date

 4/27/2015     Case Created - A-2015-2479082 - CRANEFLAG LLC filed application
for authority to begin experimental service.     4/27/2015

 4/27/2015     Assigned Responsible Bureau - TUS     4/27/2015

 4/27/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Application to Begin
Service' is made public     4/27/2015

 8/11/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest - Billtown Cab Co Inc -
Billtown Cab Co Inc filed Protest.     8/11/2015

 8/11/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - Billtown Cab Co
Inc ' is made public     8/11/2015

 8/11/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest - MTR Transportation Inc t/a
K-Cab Co - MTR Transportation Inc t/a K-Cab Co filed Protest.     8/11/2015

 8/11/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest - MTR
Transportation Inc t/a K-Cab Co' is made public     8/11/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest-Good Cab LLC - Good Cab LLC,
United Cab LLC, Keystone Cab Srvc Inc, and EZ Taxi LLC filed Protest
8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest-United Cab LLC - Good Cab
LLC, United Cab LLC, Keystone Cab Srvc Inc, and EZ Taxi LLC filed Protest
8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest-Keystone Cab Service Inc -
Good Cab LLC, United Cab LLC, Keystone Cab Srvc Inc, and EZ Taxi LLC filed
Protest     8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest-EZ Taxi LLC - Good Cab LLC,
United Cab LLC, Keystone Cab Srvc Inc, and EZ Taxi LLC filed Protest
8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest-Keystone Cab
Service Inc' is made public     8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest-United Cab LLC' is
made public     8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest-Good Cab LLC' is
made public     8/13/2015

 8/13/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest-EZ Taxi LLC' is
made public     8/13/2015

 8/20/2015     Document Attached to Case - Protest-AA Taxi Inc - AA Taxi Inc
filed Protest     8/20/2015

 8/20/2015     Document Published on Web - Document 'Protest-AA Taxi Inc' is
made public     8/20/2015

 9/1/2015     Document Attached to Case - Restrictive Amendment - CraneFlag,
Billtown, and MTR - CraneFlag LLC, Billtown Cab Co. Inc., and MTR Transportation
filed Restrictive Amendment.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              794 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Oakland Tribune (California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 28, 2016 Monday

Berkeley: Occupy Wall Street co-founder to headline panel on future of
environmental protest

BYLINE: Tom Lochner, The Oakland Tribune

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


March 28--BERKELEY -- Micah White, one of the founders of the Occupy Wall Street
protest movement, will participate in a forum on the past and future of
environmental protest at the David Brower Center at 7 p.m. April 22 -- Earth
Day.

White is the author of "The End of Protest: A New Playbook for Revolution,"
which contends that reliance on materialism, empiricism and scientism has
limited the potential of environmental protest, necessitating a social
revolution for individuals, communities and the planet, according to a program
note from the Brower Center.

The "Is Climate Change Protest Broken?" panel that will include Bay Area
activists. The forum will conclude with a question-and-answer session moderated
by Michelle Myers of the Sierra Club. The Brower Center is at 2150 Allston Way.

Tickets cost $5, $10 and $15 on a sliding scale at the door. Advance tickets can
be purchased online for $6.27, $11.54 and $16.82 at bit.ly/1VNERqh.

The center's Hazel Wolf Gallery will open a half-hour before the event. The
current exhibit is "Vanishing Ice: Alpine and Polar Landscapes in Art
1775-2012." More informnation about the exhibit is at
www.browercenter.org/exhibitions/vanishing-ice.

Contact Tom Lochner at 510-262-2760. Follow him at Twitter.com/tomlochner.

___ (c)2016 The Oakland Tribune (Oakland, Calif.) Visit The Oakland Tribune
(Oakland, Calif.) at www.insidebayarea.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160328-OX-Berkeley-Occupy-Wall-Street-co-founder-to-headline-panel-on-future-o
f-environmental-protest-0328-20160328

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OX


                       Copyright 2016 The Oakland Tribune


                              795 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday

Police thwart protest against irregularities in Waqf Board

LENGTH: 196 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Jan. 26 -- Several organisations tried to stage protest against
intervention of higher officials of Minority Welfare Department in protection of
Waqf properties and withdrawal of action against the offenders here at Hajj
House. However police did not give permission for the protest. Heavy police
force was deployed at Hajj House and tried to stop the protest dharna.

Tanzeem-e-Insaf, Deccan Protection Waqf Society and other organisations had
decided to stage protest under the leadership of ex-MP (Rajya Sabha) Aziz Pasha.
An application was submitted in the police station in this connection however
the police refused to give permission for the dharna at the eleventh hour.

Expressing anger over police attitude, Mr. Aziz Pasha condemned effort to stop
democratic protest. He said people have right to protest in democracy hence the
several organisations had decided to stage protest in order to draw higher
officials' attention towards irregularities in Waqf Board.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              796 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            January 22, 2016 Friday
                                 Hobart Edition

Counter-protest for forest

BYLINE: LORETTA LOHBERGER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 196  words


AS Â a community protest against logging at Lapoinya in the North-West receives
support from conservationists in Hobart, a group supporting forestry workers and
contractors has joined the debate, staging its own protest.

About 20 people took part in the protest outside the coupe at Lapoinya,
organised by Unlock Tasmania, yesterday.

The group's president, Rod Rylah, said it was about protecting jobs. Mr Rylah's
wife, Braddon Liberal MP Joan Rylah, spoke at the rally and said it showed "you
can protest and make your point without interfering with the rights of others".

Two people involved in the community protest against plans to log the area have
been charged under anti-protest laws.

About 150 gathered on Parliament lawns yesterday in solidarity with those
involved in the community protest. The rally was organised by the Bob Brown
Foundation.

Indianna Massey, who grew up at Lapoinya, spoke about how important the forest
was to those who live in the area.

"This forest and environment is something special. It inspires, it relaxes and
it encapsulates," she said."We are not even anti-logging, but we are against
clear-felling which is proposed for the Lapoinya forest coupe."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Hobart Mercury


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              797 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Sunday Nation (Kenya)

                               September 20, 2015

Protests planned over schools closure

BYLINE: BERNARDINE MUTANU

LENGTH: 338  words


The protest will mark the beginning of week-long demonstrations, said the
activists.

Activists from Nairobi will Monday take to the streets to protest government's
decision to close schools following a strike by teachers.
The protest will mark the beginning of week-long demonstrations, said the
activists who had gathered earlier Sunday at Uhuru Park's Freedom Corner.


They chanted, "Pay our teachers, open our schools, and occupy Harambee Avenue,"
to express displeasure after the Ministry of Education last Friday ordered all
schools to close by Monday September 21, 2015.
They claimed government erred by closing schools as it went against children's
right to education as stipulated by the Constitution.
The activists from grassroots associations and organisations vowed to press on
with the protests.
"We want to press the government to pay teachers instead of disobeying a court
order," said one of the activists.
WEEK OF RAGE
The protest dubbed #WeekOfRage could be one of the various protests against the
government expected this week after the Opposition Cord n obtained permission
from police to hold a demonstration in Nairobi on Wednesday in support of the
teachers who went on strike over three weeks ago.
"A government that disobeys court orders should be disobeyed because the
judicial authority is derived from the people," read one of the placards carried
by the activists while another read, "Court ordered government to pay teachers
not to close schools."
The government has been under fire over the last few weeks after it announced it
could not pay teachers because it 'lacked money' with workers umbrella union,
Cotu, vowing to join the teachers in the strike.
Monday's march will start from the Tom Mboya monument along Moi Avenue and is
expected to draw a large crowd given the gravity of the matter.
While chanting anti-government slogans, the activists were heard calling on all
Kenyans to turn up in large numbers to show the public rage to "an insensitive
government that does not consider the plight of the poor"'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1383


                       Copyright 2015 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              798 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                 June 30, 2015

Ogedegbe - Soldiers Disrupt Peaceful Protest, Seize Four Family Members

BYLINE: Emma Amaize and Godwin Oghre

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: Oghara


SOLDIERS, Tuesday, arrested four persons and disrupted a peaceful protest by the
people of Oghara in Ethiope-West Local Government Area, Delta State, over
alleged extra-judicial killing of the chairman of the town's vigilante group,
late Mr. Benson Ogedegbe.

The arrest of Mr. Lawrence Eyaufe, Mr. Ejiro Efetebor and others, all members of
the Ogedegbe family, caused fresh panic in Oghara, because police reportedly
approved the protest by the family in collaboration with a civil society group,
Oghara Centre for Justice and Development, led by Rev David Ugolor.

It was a ding-dong battle between the soldiers and the villagers, as the
military men, who carted away the handbills, banners and other printed materials
for the protest, chased away the protesters from the Ethiope-West Local
Government Area secretariat, where they converged for the take-off of the
protest.

Mrs. Endurance Ogedegbe, widow of the slain Ogedegbe, her children and other
family members, fled to Oghara Police station, when the rampaging soldiers
stormed the protest venue.

When Vanguard visited the police station, it was crowded by protesters while
heavily armed soldiers in several Hilux vans were seen patrolling the Oghara
dual carriageway, to stop the protest.

A senior police officer who spoke on condition of anonymity, condemned the
soldiers' act, saying that it was illegal and unconstitutional because the
Police had permitted the proposed peaceful protest by the Ogedegbe family.

He said: "The state Police Commissioner is aware of the peaceful protest by the
family of Ogedegbe and he has approved it. I do not know why the soldiers should
stop them. Arrest and detention is entirely the function of the Police, not
soldiers. Why should they beat up a person and stop him from crying?"

At press time, a bewildered Mrs. Ogedegbe, told Vanguard: "They arrested Mr.
Lawrence Eyaufe, Mr. Ejiro Efetobor and two others, whose names I cannot
immediately remember. As you can see, the whole family is scattered now."

Efforts to reach the Commanding Officer, 19 Battalion, Nigeria Army, Koko
Barracks, Warri North council, in-charge of Oghara, Lt. Col. Aminu Umar, were
unsuccessful.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              799 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                            January 23, 2015 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Police stop protest in Imbonggu

BYLINE: SIBA MESA

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words


The sit-in protest that was to take place at the Imbonggu District headquarters
was stopped by police as they declared it was illegal beacause proper procedures
were not followed.

Mendi Police Provincial Commander Sybron Papato while commanding the organisers
of the sit in protest to stop said he was not properly involved and this
reflects very badly of the district itself.

The sit-in protest was to be held in the premises of the Imbonggu District
headquarters but the gates were locked at night by the police who warned and
threatened locals not to attend the protest.

The community leader in Imbonggu district SHP Pias Alopea said a letter seeking
permission to hold the sit-in protest was delivered to the PPC's desk on
December 15 last year but unfortunately no response was made.

"The purpose of this protest is to alert the Imbonggu MP Francis Awesa to pay
attention to the needed basic tangible services and unbiased allocation of the
money budgeted for the district," Mr Alopea said.

He said this was not a protest to gain political favour but a public gathering
of thousands who have been through tough times without funds for much needed
services.

The following petition raised by the people of Imbonggu District are the;
malfunctioning of Imbonggu District Administration, the non-establishment of
essential service of government agencies, the role and updated status of the
Joint District Planning and Budget Priorities Committee and the uneven
distribution of funding for projects.

The people of Imbonggu asked the Member to explain as to why the District
Administrator and Treasurer are operating out of Kiburu Lodge and whose interest
have these key people been operating for the last seven years.

They also asked the District Administrator and the Treasurer why the treasury
office operates at night and during the weekend only, and why there were no
public servants in the district?

SEE PAGE 18

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              800 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

Campaigners outside David Cameron's house in Dean handed harassment order

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


CAMPAIGNERS picketing David Cameron's family home in Dean have been issued with
a harassment order by Thames Valley Police.

The group from New Fathers 4 Justice was camping outside the Prime Minister's
home to campaign for equal rights for fathers in divorce and separation
proceedings and reform of the family courts.

But after days of picketing the Cameron's home, the group was evicted, forced to
leave its campsite outside The Barn Cottage, Dean and not return for four weeks.

Campaigners have now been moved to a Designated Protest Area (DPA) to the
northern end of Dean.

Protester Bobby Smith, 32, said he was "devastated" by the harassment order.

He added: "We have been protesting within the law, we haven't been using a loud
hailer and were within our rights to be there."

The New Fathers 4 Justice campaigner claimed that when the Prime Minister was
approached by the group on Sunday, December 28 he said: "Not you again...You're
spoiling my Christmas."

Mr Smith, an HGV driver from Waltham Cross, also claimed that Mr Cameron
gestured to the activists behind one of the windows of his family home.

Mr Cameron's constituency office did not respond to our requests for comment.



A Thames Valley Police statement said: "Thames Valley Police officers have been
present in Dean, Chipping Norton, at a peaceful protest which started on Sunday.

"TVP is committed to facilitating peaceful protest whilst balancing the rights
of all relevant parties involved.

"There have been intermittent protests for some time at this location and a
designated protest area has been established to enable peaceful protest.

"Two people, who have been protesting away from a designated protest area, were
today served with a Section 42 Notice under the Criminal Justice and Police Act
which prohibits them from entering an area in the vicinity of a private house.

"It continues to permit peaceful protest taking place at a designated protest
area nearby. This order is both necessary and proportionate in ensuring that the
two people subject to the notice continue to be able to exercise their right to
peaceful protest, whilst balancing this with the rights of people impacted by
the protest."

Our top stories

Do you want alerts delivered straight to your phone via our WhatsApp service?
Text NEWS or SPORT or NEWS AND SPORT, depending on which services you want, and
your full name to 07767 417704. Save our number into your phone's contacts as
Oxford Mail WhatsApp and ensure you have WhatsApp installed.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              801 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Colombia peasant farmers call protest against government

LENGTH: 205  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Colombian peasant farmers launched a national protest Monday against what they
said was the government's failure to make good on promised subsidies for
small-scale agriculture.


    Three people were injured in protest-related violence, officials
said.
    The dispute, which has simmered since last year, is centered on intense
opposition by farmers to Colombia's free trade agreements with the United States
and the EU, which they regard as a threat to their livelihoods.
    "We will fight to stay on the farms, for the right to work," vowed Cesar
Pachon, a protest organizer.
    Organizers said they expected 20,000 to 30,000 small farmers, or
campesinos, to take part in the open-ended protests.
    The first day left at least three people injured including a policeman who
was shot in a protest rally in the southwest department of Huila, officials
said.
    In Bogota, rock-throwing students supporting the protests clashed with riot
police, who used tear gas against the youths.
    A policeman and a government employee were hurt during this rally.
    A meeting is planned for Tuesday between the farmers and the government, but
the strike will go on for now, said Juan Hernando Matamoros, a spokesman for the
peasant movement.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              802 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                             March 17, 2014 Monday
                              Business Day Edition

Protests not always about municipalities' 'service deliveries'

BYLINE: CAROL PATON

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 371  words


Protests not always about municipalities' 'service deliveries'

Writer at Large

PROTESTS sweeping SA are not always about & service delivery& failures but are
driven by a range of political and government issues, some beyond the ambit of
local government, Deputy Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs
Minister Andries Nel said on Friday.

Police statistics have recorded an average of 34 protests a day since the start
of the year, loosely described as & service delivery protests& in media reports.
Mr Nel and Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Lechesa
Tsenoli have visited many of the & hot spots& to look at causes and possible
solutions.

& Service delivery protests' is the term used in most media reports. But the
matter is usually a lot more complex. Once one goes into many of those trouble
spots, one sees that it is not just service delivery that is the problem. Yes,
those municipalities are characterised by adverse socioeconomic conditions but
what actually sparks the protest is not always a service delivery issue,& he
said.

In January, for example, protests in the Westonaria municipality, which led to
an attack on a councillor, were over houses damaged by blasting from a nearby
mine.

A complex interplay of factors including adverse socioeconomic circumstances,
low levels of service delivery in some areas as well as very high levels of
youth unemployment was fuelling the protests, he said.

& It is very important that we look at each one of those situations to determine
the exact causes. The municipality, because it has the most direct contact with
people, becomes the target,& he said.

This analysis echoes research on the protests by University of Johannesburg
academic Peter Alexander and his colleagues, which argues that the label &
service delivery protest& obscures many of the causes which often relate to,
among other things, jobs, crime and corruption.

Mr Tsenoli said the government had identified the need for better communication
and responsiveness to stem the protests. & Our overall assessment is that this
is both an administrative and political issue.& His department had presented a
municipal intervention plan for the next five years to the Cabinet.

patonc@bdfm.co.za

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              803 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malta Independent

                               December 16, 2013

Ukrainians living in Malta protest against government

LENGTH: 573  words


Ukrainians living in Malta expressed their solidarity with the people of
Ukraine, who have been out on the frosty squares, called Euromaydans, now for 25
days. Maydans are happening in many cities of the West and East of our 46
million large country. "People are utterly dissatisfied with the treacherous and
marauding actions of authorities - the President, Government and law enforcement
agencies," the group said in a statement.

On 21 November the government rejected the signing of the Agreement on Economic
Association of Ukraine with the EU. That very same day the mass protests of
citizens began all over the country. On the night of November 30 militarized
riot police units "Berkut" violently dispersed a peaceful student protest on
Euromaydan in Kiev. Consequently, protests across the country turned more
numerous and more intense overnight.

People from all over Ukraine are joining an indefinite peaceful protest on
Kiev's Independence Square, the main Euromaydan of the country, demanding the
resignation of the President, Government and immediate fresh elections in all
branches of the government. Permanently there are about 3 to 5 thousand people
at the Euromaydan in Kiev. Throughout the week these people organise their
community's daily life and take care of protection and safety of each other,
they also constantly go out to peaceful pickets at the administrative and
governmental buildings.

The protesters come from different cities of Ukraine and change each other.
Having spent at Euromaydan 3-4 days, some go home and others come to replace
them to "refresh" the force. Ukrainians are genuinely struggling for their
National and human dignity against the Mafiosi government, which through terror
and force is trying to "crush" them and turn them into silent faceless mass,
working for "their leaders".

Every Sunday, for three consecutive weeks now, a Peoples Veche (ancient meeting
of the Slav Peoples when most important decisions had to take place) gathers on
the main Kiev Maydan, where despite the fact that the government blocks roads,
sends its thugs to attack peaceful protestors' transport, closes train stations,
airports and metro stations, people from all the towns and villages of the
country come together , to express their solidarity with the entire Nation and
to oppose the government, which betrayed its people . Last Sunday, December 8 th
2013, according to various sources and estimates, there were more than a million
protestors at Euromaydan in Kiev.

Ukrainians living in many countries of the world go out to the squares and
express support for their people, who are endangering their lives fighting for
the development of European values [#x200b][#x200b]in their country.

"We express our sincere gratitude to the Government of Malta for a prudent
assessment of the situation and weighty arguments to cancel the visit of
President - dictator of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych to Malta on December 6, 2013,"
the group said.

The above mentioned events prompted the Ukrainians living in Malta to consider
creating a socially active association for the development and understanding of
European values [#x200b][#x200b]for the Ukrainian community in Malta.

We are inviting all concerned people to express their solidarity with the
Ukrainian people in their struggle for a better future and as a sign of support
wear the ribbon with the colours of National flag of Ukraine - blue and yellow,
like the sky and the fertile fields of ripe wheat.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1594


                    Copyright 2013 Standard Publications Ltd
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              804 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday

Doctors to take out protest rally today

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 298

LENGTH: 159  words


Doctors protesting against non-recovery of their kidnapped senior colleague, Dr.
Abdul Manaf Tareen would take out protest rally today (Wednesday) from the
Sandeman Provincial Headquarter Hospital as a mark of protest movement.

The protest rally taken out under the umbrella of Pakistan Medical Association
(PMA) Balochistan would be participated by the paramedics, nursing staff and the
civil society besides the doctors.

It may be mentioned here that the doctors are observing protest against
non-recovery of Dr. Manaf Tareen right after the incident of his kidnapping.

The doctors are staging protest boycotting the duties in the outpatient
departments of the government hospitals on one hand, they have also set up a
token hunger strike camp in the Sandeman Hospital on the other hand.

Condemnation: All Pakistan Para Medical Staff Association has expressed its
sorrow and concern over non-recovery of Dr. Manaf Tareen despite lapse of over a
month time.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              806 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

Macedonian journalists protest against "scandalous" jail sentence for colleague

LENGTH: 455 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Utrinski Vesnik on 24 October

[Report by Naum Kotevski: "Journalists Protested for Kezarovski"]

Yesterday the journalists of a few national media staged a peaceful protest over
the 4.5-year prison sentence for journalist Tomislav Kezarovski. The protest had
been initially planned to be held outside the Revolutionary Struggle Museum on
the other side of Skopje's Stone Bridge, but special police forces and other
unformed policemen made a protective cordon, so the journalists were forced to
protest a few dozen meters away from the museum, right next to the bridge.

The protest was held in a tense atmosphere because of the journalists'
frustration over the police's refusal to let them approach the museum building,
where the protest was about to take place at 12:05 hours [10:05 GMT]. Although
the protest had been initially planned as a silent protest, cries like "Booh!,"
"Free Kezo!," "Is this a way to build democracy!," "Freedom, freedom!," and the
like were heard. There were also shouts and slogans that "Selective Justice Is
the Greatest Injustice." The media workers who took part at the protest said
that they would not come to terms with the feeling of total exclusion from civil
society. Kezarovski's wife was among the protesters and she threatened to set
herself on fire.

Aivo Orav, the head of the EU delegation in Macedonia, also monitored the Stone
Bridge protest. He observed from a distance the developments lower on the
horizon on the Stone Bridge for almost 20 minutes .

The protest then continued by lighting candles -- as the protesters put it --
for democracy before the police officers' feet, while the chairman of the
Initiative Board for Kezarovski's Release, Nova Makedonija chief editor Zoran
Dimitrovski, asked what the special forces were there for. "None of the
protesters intended to destroy the new cherry cannon placed outside the museum.
I do not understand why the government decided to flex its muscles and why the
journalists were not allowed to protest outside the VMRO's [Internal Macedonian
Revolutionary Organization] Museum. We are not that afraid of the police. The
idea was to stage a peaceful and incident-free protest, but the police caused a
slight commotion. We adhere to our commitment to free Kezarovski," Dimitrovski
said.

He described as scandalous the court announcement, which -- among other things
-- said that journalists did not know how to do their job. "It is impermissible
for judges to give lessons to journalists because it is the duty of every
journalist to defend the public interest, which is something that Tomislav
Kezarovski, too, was striving for," Dimitrovski added.

Source: Utrinski Vesnik, Skopje, in Macedonian 24 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              807 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 27, 2013 Thursday

BRIEF: Turkey to pay compensations to aggrieved during protests

BYLINE: A. Tagiyeva, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


June 27--The Government of Turkey decided to pay compensation to the people
aggrieved as a result of the actions of the police during the demonstrations in
the country, Sabah newspaper reported on Thursday.

Thus, Compensations will be paid to peaceful participants of the protests and
did not participate in the attacks on the police and public and private
institutions.

According to the newspaper's report, more than 100 aggrieved peaceful
demonstrators have been identified, and will get compensation the size of which
has not yet been defined.

Compensations will also be paid to owners of shops and restaurants that have
suffered damage from the protests.

Protests have been continuing in Turkey for more than 20 days. According to
representatives of the authorities, the protests already have an anti-government
character.

Opposition parties of Turkey accused the police of using excessive force against
the protesters.

Earlier, the Interior Minister of Turkey said an investigation is being carried
out in connection with the use of excessive force against the protesters.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: protest actions in Turkey

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130627-1AZ-BRF-Turkey-to-pay-compensations-to-aggrieved-during-
protests-0627-20130627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              808 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday

Willie Frazer was not at protest'

LENGTH: 277  words


A supporter of Willie Frazer claims he had not attended a protest last night,
just before he was arrested.

The PSNI said they arrested a 52-year-old man on suspicion of breach of bail
conditions at around 19:35 on Monday 17 June in the Portadown area.

Pastor Halliday, director of victims group FAIR, said a protest had been
organised at the Maze Prison for 7.30pm yesterday but claimed Mr Frazer had left
before it had begun.

"He was arrested 30 minutes away from the protest," Mr Halliday said. "He
arrived at the Maze at 6.30pm when there was no protest and then he left. He was
there to take some photographs and to meet a few friends and wish them them well
for the protest. He was arrested in Portadown just as the protest began at
7.30pm."

Plans to build a Peace Centre at the former prison site have caused deep
controversy, with many unionists fearing it could become "a shrine" to IRA
hunger strikers, a claim which the DUP strongly reject.

Mr Frazer faces six charges linked to taking part in protests over the change of
policy over the flying of the Union flag from Belfast City Hall, as well as
possession of a taser gun which was found by police in his home.

The News Letter previously reported that his bail conditions were that he must
live at his home in Markethill, is prohibited from posting on social networking
webs before or after flag protests, is not allowed within two miles of any
protest, demonstration or procession and must not attend any of these and that
he must report to a police station at a set time each week.

The bail conditions were to last for as long as he is facing a number of
charges.

Mr Frazer is appearing in court this morning.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              814 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday

Panamanian activists promise "peaceful" anti-government protests

LENGTH: 215 words


Text of report in English by leading Panamanian newspaper La Prensa website on 4
February

[Report by Getzalette Reyes: FAC Says Plans for Protests Are Still On."]

FAC leader Edgardo Voitier said the protests will be staged among others in
Changuinola San Felix Cocle Panama City and Colon La Prensa Feb

FAC leader Edgardo Voitier said the protests will be staged, among others, in
Changuinola, San Felix, Cocle, Panama City, and Colon (La Prensa, 4 Feb)

The general coordinator of the Frente Amplio por Colon [Broad Front for Colon]
(FAC), Edgardo Voitier, reiterated today that the group is coordinating protests
across the country for tomorrow.

Voitier said that the protests are being organized in response to the
government's failure to adhere to agreements in Changuinola, San Felix, and
Colon.

On the dialogue in Colon, Voitier said that the government has tried to exclude
the FAC. He said that the the protests will demonstrate to the government that
citizens are saying "enough is enough."

There will be protests in Changuinola, San Felix, Cocle, Panama, and Colon. He
said that all these demonstrations will be peaceful.

Meanwhile, Minister of the Presidency Roberto Henriquez said that the FAC
represents only a section of Colon.

Source: La Prensa website, Panama City, in English 4 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              815 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

APCA takes out protest rally

SECTION: Vol. XXXVI No. 151

LENGTH: 272  words


All Pakistan Clerks Association (APCA) Balochistan took out a protest rally in
the provincial metropolis on Wednesday. The rally led by the APCA leaders Younas
Kakar and others was started from the Metropolitan office and terminated at the
Hockey chowk passing through the Anscomb road and Prince road.

The participants were carrying the placards and banners inscribed with slogans
in favour of their demands. They attempted to go to the Chief Minister
Secretariat, however they were stopped by the police deployed there in large
number. So, the protest demonstration was held at the Hockey chowk.

As the protest went for some time, the provincial Minister Zamarak Khan along
with other government functionaries approached the APCA protestors and
negotiated with them. On assurance, the protestors gave up their protest and
dispersed peacefully.

It may also be mentioned here that APCA Balochistan had decided to intensify its
protest movement further to press the government for acceptance of their
demands.

They had decided to cordon off the CM Secretariat first and then to launch jail
bharoo tehreek all over the province from May 31.

On the other hand, their protest is also being supported by various segments of
the society including the politicians. The other day, he PML-Q leader and
Senator ® Saeed Ahmed Hashmi had expressed solidarity with the APCA employees
and demanded that their due rights be given so that they are able to lead
respectable life in the society.

He said that the clerks' community is the important pillar of the government
system and as such they have vital role in its performance, their demands must
be met.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              817 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

SFI begins 24-hour protest in Calicut Varsity

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: THENJIPPALAM


THENJIPPALAM, May 11 -- SFI has started a 24-hour-long protest in Calicut
University demanding the resignation of Vice Chancellor and dismissal of the
nominated syndicate. State secretary P Biju inaugurated the protest in the
university at 10 am on Thursday.

Students from different colleges under the university are taking part in the
protest against the Vice Chancellor.

"Around 500 students from different parts of the University are participating in
the protest. We demand the resignation of the Vice Chancellor and dismissal of
the syndicate involved in the controversial land deal," SFI district leader
Mubasheer said.

SFI state president K V Sumesh will inaugurate the concluding session of the
protest on Friday morning.

The University will witness a much stronger protest by DYFI on May 17. It will
block the activities of the university.

State-level leaders will participate in the protest. DYFI is trying to bring one
of the CPM Politburo members to inaugurate the agitation."We will stop the
functioning of the university on May 17.

The university will be surrounded by the DYFI members. It is going to be one of
the strongest agitations in the land deal issue", DYFI Malappuram district
secretary T Sathyan said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              818 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 135

LENGTH: 174  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Khairpur on Monday. According to details, the local journalists and
photographers under the leadership of Shabbir Bedar Bhutto, Liaquat Laghari and
others staged a protest demonstration for arrest of the accused men in attacking
their colleague Mahesh Kumar in Hyderabad.

The doctors and paramedical staff of the Ghulam Muhammad Mahar Medical Hospital
Sukkur recorded a protest demonstration for arrest of the accused murderers of
the Deputy Director of the JPMC Dr Saleem Kharal. The children of the retired
Rangers personnel namely Asghar Sehto, resident of Naun Pind staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of medical treatment and other facilities to
their father. A couple namely Nasrullah Memon and his wife Maria, residents of
Shikarpur staged a protest demonstration outside the Sukkur Press Club for the
provision pf protection. A woman namely Humera Samejo staged a protest
demonstration against the actions of her husband namely Zahid Samejo.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              819 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Larkana Press Club

BYLINE:  GR Gorar

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 299

LENGTH: 171  words


Different protests were staged by people in favor of their demands outside the
Larkana Press Club on Saturday.

According to details, a large number of the employees of Taluka Municipal
Administration Sujawal Junejo staged a protest demonstration against the non
provision of their increased salaries. The leaders including Muharam Ali, Khalid
Hussain, Ali Muhammad Bhutto, Aijaz Jalbani and others demanded of the concerned
authorities to provide annual increments to them, otherwise they have threatened
to extend their protest circle. Sindh Samat Mallah Organization (SSMO) and
relatives of Late Wazir Ali Mirani, who was killed by the armed men of the
Bughio and Areja communities three month ago staged a protest demonstration for
the arrest of the his murderers. The sacked employees of the District Council
Larkana continued their protest demonstration for the reinstatement of their
services. The members of the Shehri Ittehad staged a protest demonstration
against the poor cleanliness conditions of the Baqrani Taluka.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              820 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Statesman

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Altaf issues appeal to end 'peaceful protests'

BYLINE:  Statesman Report

SECTION: Vol. 11 No. 356

LENGTH: 223  words


Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Altaf Hussain Thursday appealed to people across
the country to stop 'peaceful protests' against 'biased and discriminatory'
statement issued by Senior Minister of Sindh Dr. Zulfiqar Mirza, Geo News
reported.

According to a statement issued by MQM, the party Chief Altaf Hussain has made
an appeal in earnest to the people to suspend the 'peaceful protests' in view of
the critical situation prevalent in the country.

"The peaceful protests be stopped against the use of biased and discriminatory
language against the successors of the founders of Pakistan, he said."

Altaf said the 'Haq Parast' people throughout the country have registered their
protest against the use of uncalled for language 'against the successors of the
founders of Pakistan'. "Therefore, I earnestly appeal to the people to suspend
their protest and immediately go back to their homes," he added.

He said the Haq Parast people of Pakistan expressed their shock and grief and
demonstrated exemplary unity by registering protest against the 'discriminatory,
fascist and venomous language and attitude'. These Pakistanis deserve a glowing
tribute, he added.

Soon after the appeal issued by the MQM Altaf Hussain businesses and shops began
to reopen in various parts of the metropolis which throughout the day gave a
completely deserted look.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              821 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Police out to deter protest

BYLINE: By TODAGIA KELOLA

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 178 words


POLICE will be out in force tomorrow to deter any protest march or any similar
activity after a telephone text message allegedly sent by activist Noel Anjo
calling on PNG citizens to stage a sit in protest against Prime Minister Sir
Michael Somare's leadership tribunal findings and penalties.

The date for the protest is tomorrow, according to the text message.

In a press conference yesterday, NCD Metropolitan Commander Joseph Tondop said
police would not tolerate such protests because it was illegal and against a
properly constituted Tribunal's decision.

"We are not stopping residents from exercising their democratic rights but if
they want to stage a sit in protest at their homes, fine, but not on the streets
of Port Moresby.

"Police will be out in force to deal with anyone caught in the illegal protest.
Take note that sit in protest', meaning employees who stay away from work is
illegal," he said. When asked if the actions of police is a deprivation of their
constitutional right to express their dissatisfaction, Mr Tondop said: "Our
position is very clear."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              822 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 140

LENGTH: 134  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Monday.

According to details, the relatives of the prisoners of central jail Hyderabad
staged a protest demonstration against the jail administration for shifting
their relatives to other jails.

The activists of the PPP-SB staged a protest demonstration against registration
of fake cases against their leader Rafiq Palari.

The students of Somalia while recording a protest demonstration in Hyderabad
said that the name of Islam is being misused in their country and the country
has been grasped by inhuman actions like murders, looting and anarchy.

The employees of the HDA staged a protest demonstration against the merger of
HDA into other department and for regularization of their services.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              823 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             March 18, 2011 Friday

Countrywide protests against Davis' release US closes embassy, consulates

BYLINE:  Anwer Abbas

SECTION: Vol. II No. 455

LENGTH: 337  words


The US embassy in Islamabad and its consulates in Pakistan will remain close on
Friday in the wake of country-wide protests after the release of a CIA
contractor Raymond Davis accused of double murder, says an announcement. Small
demonstrations broke out across the country after American Raymond Davis was set
free Wednesday after paying $2 million in blood money to the families of the
dead. "The US embassy and consulates will be closed for routine business
tomorrow," embassy spokesman Alberto Rodriguez said on Thursday. The decision
was made "for public safety at large because there may be demonstrations
tomorrow".

The biggest protest following Davis' release was in Lahore, where some 800
students rallied at Punjab University campus chanting anti-US slogans such as
"Death to America". Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) will stage peaceful protests
across the country today (Friday), as Imran Khan, Chairman PTI has given the
call for the peaceful protests terming the release of Raymond a match fixing.
While addressing a news conference here at Pakistan Tehreek e Insaaf
Secretariat, PTI chairman flayed the role of federal as well as provincial
governments in release of Raymond Davis a US national after being charged for
the murder of two Pakistanis in Lahore. Imran Khan while giving the call for the
protests announced that he personally would lead the main protest of the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf in the capital today after Friday prayers.

He said that the release of Raymond would promote extremism across the country
and act as a catalyst in raising terrorism and extremism. Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaaf leader was of the view that the rulers both from the Federal
and Punjab governments should have made United States realize about the presence
of constitution and rule of law here which they never bothered to mention to
their masters. Chairman PTI maintained that Federal as well as Punjab
governments equally share the responsibility for match fixing in connection with
the release of the US national.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              824 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               The Kurdish Globe

                               February 27, 2011

Kirkuk plot revealed

LENGTH: 706 words


"The chauvinists have a hidden and filthy agenda"

Arab Political Council, Turkmen Front planned attacks on Kurdish Asayish and
local administration in Kirkuk during Friday's protest.

As preparations were being made for huge protests last Friday throughout Iraq,
inspired by the anti-government uprising across the Arab world, Kurdish
politicians stated that Arab nationalists and Turkmen Front in Kirkuk were going
to turn the protest into a political protest and attack Kurds.

"There is a plot against Kirkuk," said Dr. Najmadin Karim, a well-known Kurdish
politician in Kirkuk and member of Iraqi Parliament in a press conference held
in Baghdad Parliament on Wednesday, February 23. "The chauvinists have a plan to
destabilize the Kirkuk situations during the protests."

"The chauvinists have a hidden and filthy agenda; they have a poisonous plot
behind the planned protest," said Dr. Karim while standing with a number of
Kurdish MPs from Kirkuk. He pointed out that Kurds protest for better services
and reform in Kirkuk city, and Kurds will continue to participate in such
protests.

Kurdish MP from Kirkuk, Khalid Shwani, explained that Arab Political Council, a
Sunni Arab nationalist and tribal council, and Turkmen Front planned to attack
the Kirkuk security establishments that dominated Friday's protest. "They were
going to attack Asayish, the main administration offices and police stations run
by Kurdish officers," said Shwani.

Meanwhile, in a press conference on Wednesday, the head of Kirkuk police,
Brigadier Gen. Jamal Tahir, warned all political parties and groups not to turn
Friday's peaceful protest into a violent protest. "We will not accept any
violent protest," said Brigadier Gen. Tahir. However, he added that Kirkuk
police were not been informed by any groups that they were going to organize
protests, and the police had not yet granted any protest licenses. According to
Iraqi Parliament law, police must be informed about any planned protest so that
they can provide security to protesters; without informing police, authorities
classify a protest as illegal.

Quickly, all Kurdish parties' headquarters in Kirkuk including the Kurdish
opposition parties held an urgent meeting, and in a joint statement they
announced that they would not participate in Friday's protest and called on all
Kurdish people not to join in either. Meanwhile, the Kurdistan Regional
Government sent forces to Kirkuk as well as other disputed areas in Diyala and
Mosul provinces.

In Friday's protests in Kirkuk, one person was killed and 23 were injured.
Protests only took place in the areas mainly inhabited by Arabs, and none were
held in Kurdish areas. The biggest protest was in Arab-dominated Hawija, 50 km
southwest of Kirkuk. Protestors held Saddam Hussein photos and Iraq's
Hussein-era flag. Clashes started when security forces opened fire to try to
prevent demonstrators from approaching the town hall building.

The shooting provoked protestors, who then attacked town hall and set fire to
the building, and dozens of protestors tried to attack police headquarters of
the town, which is run by Arab officers.

Although no Kurdish security offices were attacked in the Friday protest,
Kurdish forces are still on alert.

The United Nations envoy in Iraq, Ad Melkert, said protests in Iraq and across
the Arab world show the need to resolve long-standing disputes between Arabs and
Kurds in northern Iraq before they trigger conflict.

"In my mind, these manifestations [protests] show how important it is to take
away sources of potential unrest in the future," Melkert told Reuters in
Washington, D.C., where he has been meeting with White House and congressional
officials.

Melkert said the United Nations was working with officials in Baghdad and Iraq's
semi-autonomous Kurdish region to try to set an agenda for addressing
differences, including disputes over oil revenue-sharing and the future of the
city of Kirkuk, which lies in the center of an oil-rich part of Iraq.

"As long as these issues are lurking and unresolved, at any moment in time they
can just be the trigger for conflict and polarization," he said. "And what we
see today on the streets just shows that this can happen overnight and you
should try to prevent that."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 7


   Copyright 2011 The Kurdish Globe - Kurdistan Regional Government Education
                                   Ministry.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              825 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1780

LENGTH: 296  words


Different protests demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday.  According to details, the
activists of SPSF under the leadership of Amir Pathan and others staged a
protest demonstration against the administration of the Mehran University of
Engineering Technology Jamshoro for registering alleged fake cases against the
SPSF activists. The residents of Umerkot under the leadership of Rasool Bux
Khaskheli, Hazoor Ali, Rahim Bux and others staged a protest demonstration
against the EDO Health Umerkot.

The members of the Oil and Gas Development Company (OGDC) Labour Union Sindh
under the leadership of Abdul Hameed Soomro and others staged a protest
demonstration in favor of their demands. The leaders of the Rehabilitation of
Flood Affectees Sindh Tehreek under the leadership of Abdul Hafeez Jatoi, Ali
Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for the immediate
rehabilitation of IDPs of Sindh. The IDPs residing at the camps of Noonari
village Hyderabad under the leadership of Abdul Hadi Rind, Manzoor Gadehi and
others staged a protest demonstration against the non-provision of facilities to
them.

The members of the Tanzeem Falah-o-Bahbood for Handicapped persons under the
leadership of Nadeem Ahmed Shaikh, Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of jobs to the disabled persons. The workers of
PPP Bano Chapter of district Thatta under the leadership of Mushtaq Mangarhar,
Muhammad Eisa Bhatti and others staged a protest demonstration against the local
party leadership. The members of the Hyderabad Action Committee under the
leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and others continued their protest
demonstration against the Habib Group.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              826 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

VC's resolve weakens DUTA's protest against semester system in DU

LENGTH: 583  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, May 17 -- The protest by the Delhi University Teachers Association
(DUTA) against the implementation of the semester system at undergraduate level
in the university seems to be fading with the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Deepak
Pental, insisting on implementing the semester system.

Talking to The Pioneer regarding the ongoing protest by teachers, Prof Pental
said that he is surprised to see the protest by the teachers. "I am really
amazed to see the protest by the teachers over this issue. The implementation of
the semester system is imminent. Instead of protesting against the semester
system, teachers should assist and support the university in the process," said
Prof Pental.

Meanwhile, some of the teachers who are also representative on Academic Council
(AC) of DU are staging a protest in the VC office since Thursday alleging that
VC had passed the semester syllabus for science courses in the AC meeting held
on Thursday in an undemocratic manner.

Rajeev Kumar Verma, one of the members of AC who is on protest, said that they
would continue their protest. "The way VC declared the semester syllabus for
science courses during the AC meeting held on Thursday was illegal. It is the
height of insensitivity of the university authorities that they are not willing
to talk to us. But we would continue our protest until the VC pays attention to
our demands," added Verma.

Verma further said: "We are teachers of the university but the VC is not willing
to talk to us. On Saturday, we received a letter from the VC saying that we
should call off our protest. We have appealed to the VC that he should at least
talk to us on this issue.

Regarding the objection by the teachers, Prof Pental said that the semester
system would be implemented as UGC had made this mandatory. "Teachers should
cooperate with the university in implementing the semester system. This would be
beneficial for the university as in annual mode, students are in pressure during
exams and declaration of results also get delayed. In semester system, these
problems would not occur," said the VC. He added that in a recent survey among
the universities, DU was ranked 67 in Asia.

"In the survey, we were placed at the 67th position among the universities in
Asia. All the 66 universities which were placed above DU have the semester
system. Why could not we work under the same if all the topmost universities are
doing well under this system," said Prof Pental. He further said that at the
postgraduate level in DU, semester system is going well among students and
teachers.

The VC said that the syllabus revision is always a problem in the university.
"Syllabus revision is always a problem in the university. Some subjects needed
to be revised frequently. For semester courses, syllabus needs to be revised but
it is unfortunate that meeting for syllabus revision did not yield desired
results," said the VC.

On the issue of delay in declaration of examination results this year, Prof
Pental said: "It is illegal that the teachers are withholding the internal
assessment marks. Career of students are at stake if the results are delayed. I
had appealed to the teachers to submit the marks as students would have to
suffer due to this," he added.

The VC added that DU has received funds of Rs 1,300 crore from the Government
for development in the university. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Pioneer. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              827 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Different protests held in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1512

LENGTH: 132  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged in Sukkur by the people in favor of
their demands on Wednesday.  According to details, the residents of Saleh Pat
namely Khadim Hussain Mirbahar and Rashid Hussain staged a protest demonstration
for the arrest of the accused involved in keeping explosive in their homes,
which had resulted in destruction of the houses a few days ago.

The people of the Shaikh community, residents of Aror staged a protest
demonstration against actions of Kandhra Police. The people of the Hakro
community, residents of Bagirji staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of
the murderers of their community youth Ashiq Hakro. The heirs of a dumb youth
Hakim Ali Shar, who was strangled to death, staged a protest demonstration for
the arrest of his murderers.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              828 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tifton Gazette (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

ABAC students discuss state budget cuts

BYLINE: Steven Stubbs, The Tifton Gazette, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 543 words


Mar. 12--TIFTON -- Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College students rallied
together Thursday in protest of the University System of Georgia's proposal to
cut about $560 million from the state budget. The protest was sponsored by the
ABAC Student Media and the ABAC Student Government Association.

The protest gave ABAC students, and faculty, a platform to express their dislike
of the new proposals that would not only cost 34 ABAC faculty members their
jobs, but also raise fees for students across the state.

Jacob McWhorter, managing editor of ABAC's newspaper "The Stallion," and also
the moderator for the protest, opened up the afternoon encouraging students to
use their right to stand up and protest the budget cuts.

"I have heard people say that we do not have the right to come out and protest
and they are wrong," McWhorter said. "We do have every right to protest this."

Moments later ABAC Associate Professor of History Galt Brown took center stage
to not only speak against the cuts, but also to explain to students the
opportunity that they have to make a difference.

"You have an opportunity that is rare," Brown said. "What you have to say does
matter and you now have the opportunity to speak your voice."

ABAC President David Bridges told students that the actions they take during the
protest will not be the difference maker, but rather their actions following the
protest. Bridges informed students to express their opinions to the people that
could really make a difference. Bridges informed students to express their
opinions to the people that could really make a difference.

"Your own self-interest is most loudly heard when it comes from your mouth or
from your pen," Bridges said. "Higher education can be torn down in one day
because of the cut and it could take generations to get it back."

After the designated speakers talked to the audience, the stage was open to
anyone in attendance to get up and share how the cuts would affect them.

When the open microphone was presented it was Stephen Aaron, a political science
major at ABAC, who made his way through the crowd first.

"Everyone is here (ABAC) to better their education, and their future," Aaron
said. "If they make these cuts, then they are castrating our future."

Aaron's thoughts were not rare amongst the angry student body as one after the
other they made their way to the stage to share their thoughts with the
audience. Among those who went up to speak was social science major Jamie
Parish.

"It won't stop with these cuts alone," Parish said. "If these cuts do go through
then there will be something else they will want to cut later on."

Students are planning to carry their voice to Atlanta on Monday as they are
going to meet at Georgia State University and march to the Georgia Capitol.

Many of the 70 plus ABAC protesters plan to participate in the march.

To see more of The Tifton Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tiftongazette.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Tifton Gazette, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100312-TJ-ABAC-students-discuss-state-budget-cuts-0312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJ


                       Copyright 2010 The Tifton Gazette


                              829 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

Links to school protest stories and photos from state, nation

BYLINE: Compiled by Oakland Tribune staff

SECTION: EDUCATION; News; National

LENGTH: 136 words


Here are some links to stories about school protest events around the state and
nation:

UC Davis protest leads to arrests. Fox40.com

California school protests spread across nation. Washington Post

Modesto area teachers protest cuts. Modesto Bee

A state-by-state map of protest activities. CNN.com

Thousands of teachers, parents, students and others are expected to gather today
at Pershing Square in downtown Los Angeles and elsewhere to protest state and
local cuts to education that could result in nearly 5,200 Los Angeles public
school district employees losing their jobs. Southern California Public Radio

Protesters post their photos. Flickr.com

Students and educators from San Diego to Humboldt will protest the steep cuts to
California public education during at statewide rallies today. Los Angeles Daily
News

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              830 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

Maoists step up preparations for protests

LENGTH: 253  words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Oct. 30 -- The main opposition party Unified CPN (Maoist) has
intensified its internal preparations in the run-up-to its second round of
nationwide protests, which is due to begin from Sunday.

The Maoist central members have said that they will resort to retaliation if the
state tries to suppress the protests.

A joint-meeting of the party central members and the members of Newa and
Tamsaling State Committees held at the party headquarters in Koteshwor Friday
discussed the ways to make their protests more effective.

Maoist Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal trained the cadres on the role of Kathmandu
and Tamsaling region in the upcoming protests.

Talking to reporters after the meeting, Chairman Dahal said that the state will
have to take up responsibility of the possible consequences if it tries to
repress the protests.

He claimed the protests would move in a strong manner.

Maoist vice chairman Dr Baburam Bhattarai said that the party, however, would
also give continuity to the ongoing dialogue with the ruling parties to find
consensus.

The Maoists had announced their next round of protests on Tuesday saying that
the ongoing talks would find no solution to the protracted political impasse.

Maoists' second round of protests include torch rallies, Kathmandu Blockade and
picketing Singha Durbar, the central administration office of the state.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                 Copyright 2009 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              831 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Planned protest march deferred

BYLINE: By Harlyne Joku

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words


POLICE Commissioner Gari Baki has not given approval to unions to stage their
planned protest march to Parliament on Thursday as Parliament sits this week
over the MPs and constitutional office holders perks increase.

Police intelligence sources said yesterday there would be no such protest
because opportunists including a certain NGO group were planning to cause
trouble on that day.

PNG Trade Union Congress president Michael Malabag also confirmed yesterday that
Commissioner Baki had not given the green light for the protest march planned
for this Thursday.

Mr Malabag said no formal response or approval had been give to the union on the
planned protest although they sent a letter last month to Commissioner Baki
requesting for approval to stage the protest march.

Mr Malabag who has just returned from an Asian Development Bank (ADB) conference
in Bali, said the unions who were in solidarity to stage the protest would have
to delay the march until the police gave approval.

We want to stage the protest march according to the law and peacefully but
government authorities fear the march may create havoc in the city because
certain opportunists want to take part in the protest and create trouble, Mr
Malabag said.

He confirmed that Mr Baki is out of Port Moresby this week attending a
conference in Kokopo and that the unions would have to defer the tentative date
planned until they receive a formal response from Mr Baki.

But police sources say there will be no such protest march as they are worried
it will cause serious trouble when a certain NGO group takes part and could
cause violence and trouble for other reasons, including the betelnut ban placed
by the NCD Governor Powes Parkop and their own interests.

Mr Malabag said the unions had written to the Chief Ombudsman to investigate
into the legality of how the SRC and MPs and constitutional holders had given
themselves the 42 to 50 per cent increases in accommodation and motor vehicle
allowances. He said they had yet to hear from the Chief Ombudsman Chronox Manek
if he will be investigating.

Attempts yesterday to have Commissioner Baki to comment from Rabaul were
unsuccessful.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              832 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

China quashes protest requests

BYLINE: Aileen McCabe, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 431  words


The Chinese had 77 requests to protest during the Olympics, but all but two have
been dismissed so far, it was revealed Monday.

The two applications still under consideration are on hold, pending "more
information of the eligible participants" and "adequate papers as required,"
according to the official news agency Xinhua.

It quoted an unnamed spokesperson at the Beijing Public Security Office saying
one application was vetoed because "it is in violation of China's law on
demonstrations and protests."

The other 74 applications to demonstrate in the three officially sanctioned
protest parks were withdrawn "because the problems those applicants contended
for were properly addressed by relevant authorities or departments through
consultations," the report said.

Security officials said 149 people, including three foreigners, submitted
applications to protest.

Despite persistent inquiries since the Olympic Games opened 11 days ago, these
are the first details Chinese authorities have revealed about the protest parks.
Some of them fly in the face of information journalists and human rights groups
have uncovered independently.

For instance, several cases of Chinese citizens being forcibly prevented from
filing applications to protest have been widely reported. As well, there are
documented cases of applicants being taken away by police and presumably jailed.

There has yet to be a protest in any of the designated zones, although there are
reports that a few Chinese with placards -- but without authorization -- have
tried and been turned away by police. Indeed, the only demonstrations so far
during the Games have been a handful of theatrical protests staged by Students
for a Free Tibet and all of the participants, including several Canadians, have
been deported.

Questions about the empty protest zones have been raised repeatedly at the
regular Olympic media briefings, but neither the Beijing organizing committee
nor the International Olympic Committee have been able or willing to answer
them.

IOC spokeswoman Giselle Davies has repeatedly punted responsibility for the
protest zones to the Beijing city government, but she did concede at one point:
"To date, what had been announced publicly doesn't appear in reality to be
happening and a number of questions are being asked."

The protest parks were specifically included in the 21 edicts the propaganda
ministry issued to Chinese media ahead of the Games. It declared: "In regard to
the three protest parks, no interviews and coverage is allowed."

Aileen McCabe is in Beijing as part of the Canwest News Service Olympic Team

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Nir Elias, Reuters; A security guard stops a female protester who tried
to display a Tibetan flag in the Ethnic Culture Park in Beijing. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              833 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         The Nelson Mail (New Zealand)

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday

Nelson firm plans to join protest

BYLINE: STICKLEY Marcus; NZPA

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 426 words


At least one Nelson trucking firm plans to join in a protest against new road
user charges that threaten to clog city centres around the country tomorrow.

The nationwide protest which organisers have promised will see 1000 trucks in
the centre of Auckland, will disrupt commuters heading to work.

The New Zealand Road Transport Association says no protest is to be held in
Nelson. However, firms from the region may join action in other cities where
they operate.

The trucks will be driven into the centre of cities between 7.30am and 9am in
what trucking representatives say is the first national protest taken by the
industry.

New Zealand Road Transport Association Nelson-Marlborough-West Coast area
manager Grant Turner said Nelson firms operating in Christchurch and the lower
North Island would join the protest there if it fitted in with their schedules.

Solly's Contracting manager Merv Solly said he planned to have six to eight
trucks join the protest in Christchurch tomorrow.

The transport business veteran said the combined cost of road user charges and
fuel for his business had doubled over the past year.

"That's why, after 46 years, I feel the need to protest."

Areas where there was no rail network, like Nelson, relied on trucking, he said.

The increase means that for a small diesel car it will cost $3.28 more to drive
1000km, or $32.80 more for an average year's motoring of 10,000km.

A typical five-tonne truck will cost an additional $53.80 for 10,000km, while
for a 23-tonne four- axle truck the cost is expected be an additional $198.

Transport Minister Annette King is defending the road user charge increases,
saying they are minimal and needed to maintain roads damaged by trucks.

She announced the increase in charges on Monday, and they came into effect on
Tuesday. This angered truck companies, which wanted notice so they could
pre-purchase road user charge vouchers.

Ms King told Radio New Zealand today the increase was about fairness. Car users
paid for the roading system every time they bought petrol; those with diesel
only paid through the charges and these had not risen to cover the costs created
by trucks.

She had been advised to increase the charges by twice the amount decided. The
increases were minimal considering that large trucks did most damage on roads.

When she gave notice of an increase last year, there was a $17.5 million mass
pre-purchase. Road Transport Forum chief executive Tony Friedlander said the
organisation's members were outraged. The minister had previously promised a
month's notice of any increases.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              834 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2007 Monday

Azeri opposition member detained in protest against hike in price

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by Seymur in the Azerbaijani newspaper Yeni Musavat on 22 January
headlined "Mingacevir protests"

The Mingacevir branch of the PFAP [People's Front of Azerbaijan Party] staged a
protest against the rise in energy prices yesterday [21 January]. About 200
Mingacevir residents, including opposition members, joined the protest, the head
of the PFAP press service, Isaq Avazoglu, has said.

He said that after an hour's efforts, police officers dispersed the protest.
Avazoglu added that police forces from Ganca and Yevlax were brought to the
scene to break up the protest. The chairman of the PFAP local branch, Suleyman
Karimov, was arrested and taken to a police station.

Source: Yeni Musavat, Baku in Azeri 22 Jan 07 p 2

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              835 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 11, 2005

Why the SNP would be wrong to join the House of Lords

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 716 words


FOR several months the police have conducted a deliberate, cynical exercise to
discredit and criminalise those who wish to protest against the G8 summit.

Thursday was a culmination of these efforts, when Perth and Kinross Council
refused the right to march at Gleneagles or Auchterarder. We believe this was
deliberately orchestrated by the police.

This is an unprecedented attack on civil liberties, on freedom of speech and the
right to protest. We have demanded the right to protest at Gleneagles because of
the symbolism of the gathering of the pack of thieves, murderers and war
criminals.

For nearly one year we have offered the authorities the choice of an organised
peaceful protest. We have tried to negotiate and compromise and have followed
the principles of peaceful protest. Yet all these efforts have been thrown away
by the authorities.

There is plenty of room around Gleneagles Hotel with a pounds-1m and
five-mile-perimeter fence, 10,000 police officers, countless British and
American security services. They will be more than capable of protecting the G8
summit and the democratic right to protest. The requirement for public liability
insurance by Perth and Kinross Council for the right to protest is simply a red
herring.

The Association of British Insurers has said this is the first time that a
protest group has been asked to take out public liability insurance. Edinburgh
City Council is not taking out insurance, because it would thwart freedom of
speech.

Edinburgh is expected to cope with a million people; in Glasgow and YOUR article
on the House of Lords and the SNP raises some interesting points for the
Nationalist movement in Scotland (June 10). You report the issue as a "split"
inside the SNP. This term seems rather more divisive than is necessary. Would it
not be more helpful to state that a debate inside the SNP is taking place?

The argument that it would be useful for there to be an SNP voice inside the
Lords is outweighed by those against. The upper house of the Westminster
parliament is an unelected one, and consequently flies entirely in the face of
any acceptable standards of democracy. The Lords (along with the monarchy, but
that is a debate for another day) represents the pinnacle of the establishment
at the heart of the British state.

Given that the raison d'etre of the SNP is independence from that British state
and opposition to the establishment view of the constitutional order, I can see
no logical reason for its participation in that particular forum. As a
left-ofcentre party, there is something fundamentally wrong with  the notion of
seeking to create a raft of SNP lords, who represent the power of privilege
rather than of democratic legitimacy.

We need only see what happens to other parties that begin as a challenge to the
established order but end up becoming part of that establishment - they deviate
from their purpose and become devalued as a consequence.

Let us remember what the late Donald Stewart said of the SNP:

"We are a radical party with a revolutionary aim: that of breaking up the
British state."

I am glad that the SNP leader, Alex Salmond, is opposed to any moves to SNP
participation in an undemocratic upper chamber at Westminster - something the
House of Lords most definitely is.

He shall have my support if and when the SNP comes to make a decision on the
matter.

Jamie Hepburn, 10 Mingarry Street, Glasgow.

YOUR hysterical splash headline, SNP split over taking up seats in Lords, sums
up the corrosive and hypocritical nature of modern-day Scottish political
journalism.

Newspapers, and political journalists in particular, constantly complain about
on-message politicians who never deviate from the party line.

But what do you expect when any disagreement from whatever source on any issue
is described variously as a split, a gaffe, a humiliation for the leadership or
any other stock cliche from the political journalism handbook?

As John Swinney's private secretary between 2001 and 2004, I concluded that it
was virtually impossible to engage in any serious debate without provoking some
ludicrous apocalyptic headline in the Scottish press.

Scottish democracy desperately needs a more mature political press than that
currently provided by papers such as The Herald.

Ewan Crawford, 35 Partickhill Road, Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


                              836 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           October 1, 2003, Wednesday

FUEL PRICE PROTEST FIZZLES OUT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 186 words


A THREATENED mass protest by drivers angry at petrol price increases failed to
materialise today.

Fuel protest leaders had urged motorists to stop their vehicles for one minute
at 8.30am.

Motorway drivers, for example,had been asked to pull on to the hard shoulder to
register their protest at the Treasury's 1.28pa litre increase in prices.

But motoring organisations reported a lack of enthusiasm for the protest.

"We have monitored all the motor ways and have seen no sign of any protest,"
said a spokesman for AA Roadwatch.

"The only sign of cars on hard shoulders was on the west-bound section of the M4
in west London -but that was due to a breakdown."

The only reported protest was two lorries driving slowly side-by-side and
holding up traffic on the A1 in County Durham.

Earlier, the AA had issued a warning to motorists: "We could not, as an
organisation, support a protest that will cause serious disruption and prevents
people from going about their everyday lives."

Val Smith of the Road Haulage Association was due to deliver a protest letter to
Downing Street today.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


                              837 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                      January 19, 2003 Sunday 1ST EDITION

Largest war protest in Washington since Vietnam reveals rift over Iraq

BYLINE: Mike Soraghan , Denver Post Washington Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-01

LENGTH: 1085 words


WASHINGTON - Tens of thousands of anti-war demonstrators converged  at the
National Mall on Saturday, sending a message to the White  House that Americans
are far from united in support of military  action against Iraq.

They braved bone-chilling 20-degree temperatures to form a sea of  people and
placards denouncing President Bush's persistent drive  toward confrontation with
Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.

'If George Bush thinks he can go to war just because he wants to,  he has made a
mistake,' said Howard Marland, 60, a carpenter from  Washington who came to the
rally with a dozen people from Dumbarton  United Methodist Church in Washington.

'Everyone wants to get rid of Saddam, but we haven't thought  through the
consequences of this war,' Marland said.

The rally outside the Capitol ended with a march on the Washington  Navy Yard,
which houses mostly military offices.

The Washington demonstration was the lead event in a multinational  protest of
war with Iraq. There were also protests in San  Francisco, Chicago and Tampa,
Fla., as well as Paris, London,  Tokyo, Sweden and Bonn, Germany.

There were no official estimates of crowd size.

Organizers of the demonstration, the activist coalition  International ANSWER
(Act Now to Stop War and End Racism), said the  protest was larger than one they
sponsored in Washington in  October. District of Columbia police officials
suggested then that  about 100,000 attended.

Police Chief Charles Ramsey would not provide an estimate but said  Saturday's
rally was bigger than the one in October. 'It's one of  the biggest ones we've
had, certainly in recent times,' he said.

Regardless of the exact number, the crowd on the mall was the  largest for an
anti-war rally in Washington since the Vietnam era.

There were no reports of serious violence or arrests. There were  limited
counterdemonstrations as marchers passed a Marine barracks.  Also, several dozen
war veterans held a counter-rally, billed as a  'Patriots Rally' in support of
U.S. troops, near the Vietnam War  memorial on the mall.

Protesters arrived with signs announcing groups from Alabama,  Minnesota and
Illinois. Activists streamed from buses throughout  the day, even as the rally
drew to a close.

Most of the 200 Coloradans who took part marched before a  'Telluride, Colorado
for Peace' banner signed by 1,200 town  residents and visitors. 'This is what
democracy looks like!' they  chanted in unison.

They were a diverse group: seasoned activists, bearded men in  skirts,
grandmothers, teachers and many people who say they've  never gotten involved
before but believed they needed to speak out  against a war with Iraq.

'It's nice to see there's lots of evidence contradicting the      polls showing
everyone supports the war,' said Tom Masterson, a  retired University of
Colorado professor.

Chris Myers of Telluride can mark the day he became an activist -  Sept. 12,
2002. It was the day Bush formally announced his policy  of pre-emptive war.

'That's when I realized this had nothing to do with security,'  said Myers, one
of the leaders of the 30-member Western Slope  contingent.

The rally featured civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, former  attorney general
Ramsey Clark, actress Jessica Lange and activist  and presidential candidate Al
Sharpton.

At times it seemed like every other protester waved a handmade  sign. Among them
were: 'Just war or just oil?' 'Who would Jesus  bomb?' and another suggested,
'Bomb Texas, they have oil, too.'

Speakers stood before a large poster that read 'No war for big  oil' and
questioned why the administration was talking with North  Korea but sending
troops to Iraq. The answer, most said, was Iraq's  oil reserves.

'I keep hearing about weapons of mass destruction. What I'm  worried about is
words of mass deception,' said the Rev. Graylan  Hagler, a Washington minister.
'What we are struggling against is  a war for oil and American imperialism.'

John Sigmund of Philadelphia carried a sign with a picture of his  sister
Johanna Sigmund, who was killed on her way to work in the  Sept. 11 attack on
the World Trade Center. His sign said, 'Not in  my sister's name.'

'Bush says we have to start another war to prevent another 9/11,'  Sigmund said.
'I think it will cause another 9/11.'

Speakers repeatedly invoked the name of slain civil rights icon  Martin Luther
King Jr., and made comparisons to the divisive war  decades ago in Vietnam.

Ron Kovic, the anti-war activist whose paralyzing injuries in  Vietnam were
chronicled in the film 'Born on the Fourth of July,'  brought a hush to the
crowd when he recalled that he was shot 35  years ago on King's birthday. He
predicted that a new anti-war  movement was beginning.

'This fight will be won by you with love and compassion and  nonviolence,' Kovic
told the roaring crowd.

Speakers also offered a host of other liberal complaints about  Bush, from his
tax-cutting initiatives, to drilling for oil in  wildlife refuges and cutting
social programs. The rally reached its  peak with a call from former attorney
general Clark: 'Let's  impeach him!'

Under crystal-clear skies, participants found themselves braced  against one of
the coldest days in one of Washington's coldest  winters in years. Even
Coloradans, experienced with real winters  and outfitted in fleece and Gore-Tex,
were rocked by the frigid  weather.

'I was putting on my long underwear, my ski socks. I said, 'I feel  like I'm
dressing to go skiing,'' said Laura Price, 29, of  Boulder.

But the low temperatures and high emotions of the speeches were  secondary in
the minds of most protesters to the sheer number of  people. A march last fall
had drawn little coverage from the media,  conflicting crowd counts and
bitterness from activists.

But as they stomped toward the Navy Yard with the sun lying low in  the sky
Saturday afternoon, the activists felt confident they had  drawn the numbers
needed to get attention from the media, the White  House and the world.

"The people, they're the important part," said Price, who had  gathered with the
rest of the Colorado contingent around the  speaker towers next to the main
stage. "I stood up on the  scaffolding and looked out, and there were people as
far as I could  see. It was beautiful."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Special to The Denver Post/David S. Holloway Joseph Hamer stands
before a translucent banner he and four others from Grand Junction made for an
anti-war rally Saturday that drew tens of thousands to the National Mall in
Washington, D.C. PHOTO: AP/Rick Bowmer PHOTO: Associated Press/Kurt Wilson
MISSOULA, MONT.: Participants in a 'Stop Wars for Oil' rally form a peace sign.
About 800 people demonstrated. PHOTO: The Denver Post/Karl Gehring Latricia
Stewart, center, of Highlands Ranch attends a candlelight vigil with daughters
Virginia, 10, left, and Cecilia, 13. PHOTO: Associated Press/Marcio Jose Sanchez
SAN FRANCISCO: Charity Sevilla chants 'No war for oil' as she joins thousands of
protesters marching down Market Street. PHOTO: Associated Press/Francois Mori
PARIS: A man wearing a death mask carries a sign that says, 'The life of our
children is worth more than your dirty wars.' PHOTO: Associated Press/Ivan
Sekretarev MOSCOW: Communist demonstrators, joined by some Iraqis, wield a
caricature of President Bush outside the U.S. Embassy. PHOTO: Knight Ridder
Newspapers/Peter Tobias Lina Chankar, center, of Norwich, Conn., shouts her
disapproval of President Bush during an anti-war demonstration Saturday in
Washington.

                        Copyright 2003 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              838 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             March 5, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ballyhea to end weekly bank debt protest after five years

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 201 words


AFTER 260 Sunday protests through snow, torrential rain and howling gales,
Ireland's best-known campaigners will stage their final demonstration.

The 'Ballyhea Says No' group will tomorrow stage their final protest after 11am
Mass in the north Cork village - with hundreds expected to attend to show
solidarity with a group which inspired antiausterity support across Ireland,
Spain, Portugal, Greece and even Germany.

Dozens of other weekly protests sprang up nationally in the wake of the Ballyhea
group staging their first protests every Sunday from March 2011.

A core group of Ballyhea protesters, led by sports journalist Diarmuid O'Flynn,
also took their campaign to Europe and North America to highlight the injustice
and hardship being suffered by ordinary taxpayers.

The first Ballyhea protest was staged five years ago on March 6, 2011.

"This Sunday is March 6, 2016 and it marks the fifth anniversary of the
'Ballyhea Says No' protest march against the imposition of the unfair,
unwarranted and odious bank debt on the people of Ireland," Mr O'Flynn said.

Since 2011, the only Sunday protest missed was on Christmas Day.

"I suppose you could say that the circle is now closed," Mr O'Flynn added.

Ralph Riegel

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eithne Keating holds up a petition during a Ballyhea protest against
the bank bailouts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              839 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday

Altaf's speeches: MQM holds protest rally against ban

SECTION: Vol. 52 No. 27

LENGTH: 169  words


Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) announced Tuesday that it was holding peaceful
protests in different parts of Karachi against a court ban on broadcast of Altaf
Hussain's speeches. According to the announcement, protests took place at Babar
Market Landhi, Chiniot Hospital Korangi, Star Gate, Hassan Square, Five Star
Chowrangi, North Nazimabad, Liaquatabad, Regal Chowk and Clifton.

MQM workers and leaders gathered the venues of protests to denounce the ban.
"There is unjust ban on our leader, Altaf Hussain, despite the fact our
constitution guarantees freedom of expression," MQM's nominated mayor ship
candidate Waseem Akhtar told media persons.

"Our protest will continue as long as ban stays," he said. Wearing black ribbons
and carrying placards inscribed with pro-Altaf Hussain slogans, supporters of
the MQM called for the immediate removal of ban on their leader. Khawaja
Izhar-ul-Hassan, a senior MQM leader, said that demonstrators also protested
against ineffective local government (LG) system of Sindh.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              840 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Essex Chronicle

                           October 7, 2015 Wednesday

Angry protest over Chinese nuclear plant for Bradwell

BYLINE: Will Watkinson will.watkinson@essexchronicle.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 374  words


CAMPAIGNERS took to boats and the beach to protest against plans for the Chinese
to build a new nuclear power station at Bradwell-on-sea.

More than 300 protesters travelled to the beach on the river in West Mersea to
voice their disapproval of plans by French firm EDF to sell rights to build a
new nuclear power station to Chinese state-owned companies.

FAB (Fight Against Bradwell) fears the plans could permanently damage  the area,
designated a Marine Conservation Zone.

West Mersea Town Councillor Sophie Weaver, who helped organise Sunday's protest,
said: "It was great to see everyone come together the way they did. It was a
brilliant atmosphere and the weather helped a lot.

"There was lots of families also there wanting to express their views - and
commit to fighting these plans - which could ruin our beautiful estuary
forever."

This month Chinese president Xi Jinping will arrive in the UK for talks with
David Cameron while Chancellor George Osborne has visited China to woo potential
investors.

A neighbouring site to Bradwell,  being decommissioned by Magnox, is owned by
French energy firm EDF, who have rights to build a new nuclear power station.

These rights are set to be sold to a state-owned Chinese company in return for
investment in new plants at Hinkley Point in Somerset and Sizewell in Suffolk.

But campaigners fear  building a new power station on the Blackwater could
endanger the health of those nearby and the environment of hundreds of species
of plants and animals and will use "unproven" Chinese technology.

Cllr Weaver, a bookkeeper, added: "There are a lot of reasons why this is such a
bad idea.

"We know  nuclear power can damage the health of people and animals living
nearby. We have rising sea levels which may breach the sea wall and penetrate
the power station in the future."

Referring to the Japanese nuclear disaster, she added: "We do not want another
Fukushima on the Blackwater.

"The Environment Agency should protect this marine conservation zone for future
generations.

"They have already began to release Fuel Element Debris, which has been in
contact with nuclear material, into the river.

"We have an oyster industry that could be decimated."

Turn to Your Views on pages 30 & 31 for more reaction.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: concern: Councillor Sophie Weaver was at the protest
Mersea residents hold a beach protest and flotilla against Chinese plans to
bring a new nuclear power station to Bradwell.
Mersea residents hold a beach protest and flotilla against Chinese plans to
bring a new nuclear power station to Bradwell.
Mersea residents hold a beach protest and flotilla against Chinese plans to
bring a new nuclear power station to Bradwell.
speaking out: Mersea residents rally on the beach to protest against the
project.
not wanted here: Campaigners fear a catastrophe at Bradwell like the one at the
Fukushima power plant in Japan in 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              841 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            August 24, 2013 Saturday

Thousands protest against government in Bahrain

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 132 words


MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) Thousands of people have taken to the streets in Bahrain to
demonstrate against the government in a permitted protest in the Gulf kingdom.

The demonstrators marched west of Bahrain"s capital, Manama, on Friday to
protest new strict new laws designed to curb dissent.

Opposition parties called for the protest and it had prior approval from the
government meaning it wasn"t broken up like others recently called by
demonstrators in the Sunni-ruled kingdom.

Security forces have kept other protests away from the center of the capital in
this country that"s home to the U.S. Navy"s 5th Fleet.

The island nation with a native population of more than 550,000 has been gripped
by near nonstop turmoil since February 2011, when Shiites inspired by the Arab
Spring began the uprising.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              842 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Countrywide rallies against attack on Bibi Zainab's Shrine

LENGTH: 351  words


Protest rallies were held against the attack on Hazrat Zainab's RA shrine in
various cities of Pakistan. Protest rallies were held in Karachi, Lahore,
Islamabad and other cities of the country. Terrorist attack on holy shrine of
Hazrat Syedda Zainab (AS) has sparked off stiff protest across Pakistan where
countless people began countrywide protest staging rallies and sit-in. From
Karachi to Skardu, Shia Muslims wearing black suits and armbands have come out
of their houses and gathered on main roads. Their protest demonstrations are
going on in all small and big cities of all the five provinces of Pakistan.

Reports from Karachi say that the protest rally was passing through main Numaish
Chowrangi to Imam Bargah Ali Raza (AS).

A protest rally was held in Islamabad on Sunday to lodge protest against the
attack on Hazrat Bibi Zainab s (RA) shrine near Syrian capital Damascus. The
rally organized by Markazi Majlis Wahdate-Muslimeen started from G-6/2 and
culminated at Constitution Avenue.

The speakers denounced the attack on holy sites in Syria and said a joint plan
of action is necessary to protect the sites that are holy for all sects of
Muslims.

They said the protest demonstrations to show their sentiments against these
attacks will continue. Demonstrators also presented a Memorandum to Director
General Middle East Affairs at the Foreign Office. Later the demonstrators
dispersed peacefully. Another rally is to be staged on Shahrah-e-Pakistan near
Super Highway at Incholi and a sit-in is to be staged in Malir Jafar-eTayyar
Society Reports from rural Sindh say that the mourners beat their chest and
raised the slogans of Ya Hussain (AS) and Ya Mahdi (AS) when they began protest
from the shrine of Hazrat Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai at Bhit Shah.

A rally was held in Matli, another was staged in Tarai, Golarchi and others were
being planned in other parts of district Badin. In Mirpurkhas, rally was being
taken out near Press Club of Kot Ghulam Mohammad and also in Tando Allah Yar.

In Quetta, provincial capital of Baluchistan province, a rally is being taken
out from Baltistani Imam Bargah.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              843 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 158

LENGTH: 176  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Friday.

According to details, the employees of the Baldia City Hyderabad recorded a
protest demonstration for the issuance of their withheld salaries. The students
of O level recorded a protest demonstration against the authorities of the BISE
Hyderabad for conducting the papers of differentsubjects from them once again.

A man named Muhammad Urs Jatoi, resident of GOR Colony staged a protestd
demonstration for the recovery of his cousin named Hafil Jatoi, who was
allegedly arrested by the police one month ago. The Lashari community people,
residents of Khorwah recorded a protest demonstration against the actions of
their area's landlord named Allah Dino Chandio, The activists of the MQM
Hyderabad led by Muhammad Sharif recorded a protest demonstration against the
murder of their party leaders in Karachi. The contract based employees of the
SBCA Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of their
services.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              844 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

Bahrain Shi'as protest to demand prisoners be freed

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 180 words


A Bahraini woman holds her national flag during an anti-government protest in
solidarity with jailed political activist, Hisham Al-Sabbagh on April 30, 2013.
(AFP Photo/Mohammed Al-Shaikh)

Hundreds of people from Bahrain's Shi'a Muslim majority clashed with police on
Friday as they demonstrated to demand the release of Shi'a prisoners held by the
kingdom's Sunni-dominated government, witnesses said.

Demonstrators, who included women, shouted "Free the prisoners!" and held up
photos of people being held.
The protests in Shi'a villages near the capital Manama were in response to a
call from the radical February 14 Revolution Youth Commission.
Shi'as, inspired by the Arab Spring in 2011, have been pushing to be given a
greater say in the small country's affairs.
The kingdom was rocked by a month-long uprising, which was crushed with the help
of Gulf troops led by neighbouring Saudi Arabia, but protests continue and
frequently turn violent.

Related posts:

Molotovs, tear gas at Bahrain F1 protest

Bahrain continues crackdown on street protests

Bahrain police disperse Shiite protests

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              845 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

Egypt's Islamists to lead anti-military protest;
Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood calls anti-military protest over bid to curb
president's powers

SECTION: A; Pg.2

LENGTH: 114  words


CAIRO (AP) - The campaign of an Islamist who claimed victory in Egypt's
presidential runoff says the Muslim Brotherhood and other political groups plan
a mass demonstration later Tuesday to protest a military declaration seeking to
curtail the powers of the next president.

Campaign spokesmen for Mohammed Morsi say the protest is planned at Cairo's
Tahrir Square, birthplace of the uprising that toppled Hosni Mubarak's regime 16
months ago. The protest is also to denounce a court ruling that dissolved
parliament, where the Brotherhood dominated with just under half the seats.

One of the main liberal youth groups behind the uprising, April 6, said it was
taking part in the protest.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              846 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan: Protests to continue till judicial inquiry of Dr. Mirza's murder: PMA

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: QUETTA


QUETTA, Oct. 29 -- Pakistan Medical Association on Thursday declared to carryon
with the protests till the judicial inquiry of Doctor Mirza Baloch's murder.

As per details, the meeting of General Body of PMA took place in the auditorium
of Civil Hospital Quetta in which a great number of doctors participated.
Doctors proposed several recommendations and working on those proposals the
protest for the poor has been converted into token protest.

According to the press release of PMA, doctors will hold protest after 12
o'clock whereas OPDs will remain open till 12 O' clock and Operation Theatres
will remain open the whole day.

After the meeting, a protest was held in Civil Hospital Quetta in which
protestors were holding placards demanding the apprehension of Dr. Mirza's
murderers, kidnappers of Professor Ghulam Rasool and demanding to secure
doctors. All the zones were told to carryon their protest throughout the
province Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              847 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: Security forces gear up for mass protests in Bahrain

BYLINE: A. Isgandarov, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


Sept. 23--Security forces and the National Guard troops have been deployed in
different places of Bahrain, especially near the Pearl Square in the capital
city Manama on the eve of by-elections scheduled for Sept. 24.

The oppositional February 14 Youth Coalition called for mass protests, demanding
canceling the elections and dismissing the parliament, Al Jazeera reported.

Bahrain has been rocked since February by a series of anti-government protests
that has claimed over 30 lives. The country is scheduled to hold by-election on
Sept. 24 for 18 seats left vacant by parliament members from the largest
opposition group Al Wefaq National Islamic Society, who resigned in protest
against the alleged killing of anti-government protestors.

___ (c)2011 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110923-1AZ-BRF-Security-forces-gear-up-for-mass-protests
-in-Bahrain-0923-20110923

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011


                              848 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday

Tent protesters to Supreme Court: The protest isn't over;
Tel Aviv Municipality: The tent protest will be over by Rosh Hashana.

BYLINE: Yuval Yoaz

LENGTH: 210 words


Today's Supreme Court hearing on the appeal against the eviction of the
Rothschild Boulevard protest encampment suggests that it will be cleared by Rosh
Hashana (Jewish New Year) next week. Judge Uzi Vogelman is hearing the appeal
filed by protest leaders against the eviction order by the Tel Aviv
Administrative Court.

Judge Vogelman advised the parties to settle the issue, as he thought that the
courts were not an appropriate setting for them.

The protesters' attorney. Adv. Michael Sfard replied, "It is not true, and
unworthy that the protest should end with eviction orders. Our position is that
the protest is not over."

Vogelman said, "No one has said that the protest is over."

The Tel Aviv Municipality's lawyer said that the protest tents would be cleared
by Rosh Hashana. "To avoid wasting our precious time, the municipality cannot
let the tents be manned. Manned tents must be removed. The tent protest will be
over by Rosh Hashana."

The parties agreed to resume dialogue until Sunday, when the tent protesters
will notify the Supreme Court of the results. The tents will remain in place
until then.

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
September 22, 2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              849 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

HC no to plea on specific protest site

LENGTH: 305  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Aug. 18 -- The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a
plea seeking directions to the authorities to designate a specific place outside
Central Delhi for holding various protests. "There is a lot of confusion in your
petition. The prayer has to be in consonance with your pleading," a bench of
Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justice Sanjiv Khanna said, following which the
counsel for petitioner Abhishek Jain withdrew his plea. The court, however,
permitted counsel Sugriv Dubey to file a fresh petition incorporating details
which are in conformity with his prayers.

The bench said, "At one hand, you (petitioner) are saying that there should be a
designated place for such protest. However, at the same time you want a complete
ban on such protest in Central Delhi. Your petition is dual in nature. Withdraw
it." The PIL was filed in the wake of the arrest of activist Anna Hazare and
detention of his over 1,400 supporters after they were denied permission to hold
a protest at JP Park opposite Rajghat in Central Delhi to press for their demand
for a stringent Lokpal Bill. The petition had accused the government and the
administration of adopting a 'pick and choose' policy while granting permission
to hold such protests.

The petition said, "Pick and choose policy in allowing some and disallowing
others to hold protests are arbitrary. There should be a designated place for
holding peaceful protests by common citizens of this country." The petition
further stated,

"Ban rallies in Central Delhi to avoid traffic jam or chaos caused by it but
Government should designate a place for holding peaceful protests." Published by
HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              850 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           Agency Tunis Afrique Press

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Anti-government protests planned in Syria despite regime overtures

LENGTH: 134 words


DAMASCUS, April 8, 2011 (TAP) - Syrian activists are preparing for a fresh wave
of protests following Friday prayers despite a series of overtures by President
Bashar Assad's regime to try and quell anti-government protests that have shaken
his 11-year rule.

The activists, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals, were
planning demonstrations in several Syrian provinces. Syrians on social
networking sites also called for protests across the country, calling it "Friday
of Steadfastness."

The overtures are designed to subdue the protests that erupted in a southern
city on March 18 and spread to other parts of Syria.

Local and international human rights groups said at least 100 people had been
killed in the crackdown on demonstrations that echo the recent uprisings across
the Arab world.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 392


                               Copyright 2011 Tap
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              851 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 157

LENGTH: 220  words


Different protest demonstrations were held by people in favor of their demands
here on Thursday. According to reports, the activists of JUI Sukkur chapter led
by Abdul Haq Mahar, Sirajuddin Mahar and others staged a protest demonstration
against the doctors of the Civil Hospital Sukkur for not providing treatment and
medicines to the local people.  The members of the Jatoi community, residents of
Pir Goth staged a protest demonstration against the actions of Rohri police. The
villagers while talking to newsmen alleged that the Rohri police have arrested a
taxi driver namely Qaim Khan Jatoi for not giving bribe to them.

They demanded of the concerned authorities to take notice of the matter and
ensure the release of the arrested man of their community, otherwise they have
threatened to enlarge their protest level.  The residents of Bunder Road led by
Rizwana, Amina, Fatima and others staged a protest demonstration against the
decision of Sindh government to vacate their houses near Bunder Wall at the bank
of the River Indus.

A woman namely Sughra Shaikh, resident of Nara Canal area staged a protest
demonstration against her husband Yar Muhammad Shaikh for trying to sell her
daughter Mithi. She demanded of the concerned authorities to take notice of the
matter and provide protection to her daughter.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              852 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           Agency Tunis Afrique Press

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Egypt protests: Ban on anti-government demonstrations

LENGTH: 153 words


CAIRO, Jan. 26, 2011 (TAP) - Egypt has banned street protests, one day after
thousands of people joined a "day of revolt" against the government of President
Hosni Mubarak. Anyone joining in unauthorised action will be detained and
prosecuted, the interior ministry said.

Three people died during the nationwide web-inspired protests, which were broken
up with tear gas overnight.

Police also used water cannon as they forced protesters from Tahrir Square, a
symbolic city centre location in the heart of Cairo.

Protesters had been inspired by the recent uprising in Tunisia, vowing to stay
until the Government fell.

In Washington, the White House urged the Egyptian Government to allow protests
to go ahead, describing the situation as "an important opportunity" for the
nation.

France's Foreign Minister said she regretted the loss of life in Egypt but said
democracy should be encouraged in all countries around the world.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 392


                               Copyright 2011 Tap
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              853 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Protests in Egypt - live updates

BYLINE: Haroon Siddiqueguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 161 words

ABSTRACT

Renewed protests expected in Egypt today after the biggest anti-government
demonstrations in a generation swept across the county

FULL TEXT

8.23am: are regrouping and preparing for fresh demonstrations.Violent clashes in
the early hours of the morning in Cairo's central plaza, Tahrir Square, and ,
but opponents to the Mubarak regime appear undeterred. It remains unclear as to
how the scale of the protests will compare to yesterday (which was a national
holiday) but the mood last night was defiant. Protesters had vowed to occupy
Tahrir Square until the regime fell but were dispersed by security forces using
tear gas, water cannon and firing on demonstrators, according to eyewitness
accounts. Security forces have said they will not permit protesters to
reassemble today.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              854 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio & Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1524

LENGTH: 269  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Monday. According to details, a man namely Gul Hassan, resident of village
Shahmeer Chandio in the district Shaheed Benazirabad staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of his kidnapped daughter namely Mumtaz.

A man namely Syed Ahmed Shah, resident of Naushehro Feroze staged a protest
demonstration against the influential men for torturing him. The members of the
Qaimkhani Young Ittehad under the leadership of Muhammad Qayoom and others,
residents of the Samaro district Mirpurkhas staged a protest demonstration for
the arrest of the accused men to attack a police constable namely Bilal Mustafa
Qaimkhani.

The residents of village Siddique Laghari near the Chamber district Tando
Allahyar under the leadership of Ghulam Nabi and others staged a protest
demonstration against the atrocities of the influential landlords. The contract
based employees of the Federal Bureau of Statistics Rebasing of the National
Accounts Projects Regional Office Hyderabad including Syeda Mehreen Fatima
Zaidi, Mumtaz Ali Malano, Fayaz Ali Hakro and others staged a protest
demonstration against their proposed removal from services.

The former Employees of the SRTC under the leadership of Ghulam Muhammad Depar
and others continued their protest demonstration for the 2496th consecutive day
for the issuance of their remaining stipends. The women residents of Tando Agha
under the leadership of Hafeeza Baloch and others staged a protest demonstration
against the non-issuance of the Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Income Support Program
stipends.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              855 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Letters - Silence deafening over prisoners' protest

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 275 words


Many Irish News readers may not be aware that the protest over conditions for
republican prisoners in Maghaberry prison is still continuing.

The prisoners took protest action at Easter, barricading themselves in the
dining room after Mass, remaining there until the following evening.

The Prison Officer's Association's work to rule which had been going on for a
considerable time ended shortly after giving the prisoners some hope that the
conditions which drove them to protest would ease but it wasn't to be.

Following the protest the prisoners were placed on 23-hour a day lock-up along
with other restrictions. After several days of this the prisoners began covering
up the peep slot in the cell doors at night in protest. All restrictions which
were in place pre-protest remained and some new ones added. This was all before
the prisoners had been told the punishment they would get for their protest. The
prisoners are now taking action in refusing to remove their boxer shorts for
strip searches. Yes, strip searches are still going on in Maghaberry 29 years
after the hunger strike. There are many problems to do with movement,
association, education and recreation and it is becoming clear that unless there
is a resolution soon things will only get worse. I speak as the father of a
prisoner and only as the father of a prisoner. I do not claim to speak for the
prisoners, not even for my son. I speak for no group or party but I am claiming
to speak for decency and humanity. It is important to sort this out quickly
before the prisoners feel pushed too far. The silence from many quarters is
deafening.

Jim McAllister, Cullyhanna, Co Armagh.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              856 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday

NB Power protest to be held on Legislature lawn

SECTION: NEWS;NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 127  words


Organizers of a protest against the deal to sell NB Power assets to Hydro-Québec
hope scheduling the event for the weekend will mean a large turnout.

The protest, being termed a 'Voice of the People' rally, will converge on the
lawn of the Fredericton Legislature at 11 a.m. tomorrow.

Across the province, buses and carpools are being organized to transport people
to the capital city for Saturday.

A bus is scheduled to leave the Moncton Coliseum at 8 a.m. tomorrow, heading to
the protest.

Tom Mann of the New Brunswick Union, one of the organizers of the protest, had
no projections as to how many people might show up.

Mann did, however, mention a 1992 protest where he said 5,000 people showed up
to protest broken CUPE contracts under the Frank McKenna government.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              857 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

Albanian official says opposition protest at "inappropriate time"

LENGTH: 266 words


Text of report by Albanian leading privately-owned centrist newspaper Gazeta
Shqiptare, on 22 December

[Unattributed report: "Inappropriate Protest: Kosovo at Decisive Moment"]

The opposition's protest is taking place at an inappropriate time, a time at
which the country should demonstrate political stability due to the results
expected for the solution of the status of Kosova [Kosovo]. This is the position
taken by the ruling coalition and expressed by Deputy Prime Minister Gazmend
Oketa yesterday. "The opposition has chosen an inappropriate time to protest. I
am also saying this in view of the situation in Kosovo and the expected
settlement of its status," Oketa said.

He recognized the right of everyone to protest sanctioned in the constitution
and defended by this fundamental document. However, he criticized the time the
opposition had chosen to protest saying that Kosova's status has not been
resolved yet and that Albania should demonstrate stability.

Prime Minister Berisha took part in the ceremony for the inauguration of the new
culture ministry offices at 1800 [1700 gmt], at the same time when the
protesters were heading for the main government building. However, he said
nothing about the protest. When he was in the opposition, the current prime
minister used all opportunities to organize protests against the Socialists. At
the time when the protest was taking place in Scanderbeg Square, the prime
minister was in his office and might have followed the live television broadcast
of the leftwing coalition's protest.

Source: Gazeta Shqiptare, Tirana, in Albanian 22 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              858 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 March 16, 2004

Proposed Bush visit sparks protests;

SECTION:  Pg. 10

LENGTH: 449 words


THOUSANDS of anti-war protesters are expected to take to the streets on Saturday
to voice their opposition to US President George W Bush's plans to visit Ireland
this summer.

Taoiseach Bertie Ahern is due to discuss the planned visit with Mr Bush when he
presents the president with a bowl of shamrocks at the White House tomorrow to
mark St Patrick's Day.

Plans by Mr Bush to visit Ireland for an EU-US summit in June are expected to
spark one of the biggest security operations ever seen on the island.

The terror attacks in Madrid last Thursday, now believed to have been carried
out by Islamic extremists, have heightened concerns for the president's safety.
Anti-war groups, acting under the 'Stop Bush Campaign' umbrella banner, have
called for "huge" protests around the forthcoming visit.

A protest is also planned in Dublin this Saturday to mark the first anniversary
of the US invasion of Iraq. The March 20 protest is part of an 'International
Day of Action', which could see mass protests in more than 108 cities worldwide.

The initiative to set up the 'Stop Bush Campaign' came from the Irish AntiWar
Movement, the NGO Peace Alliance and the Peace and Neutrality Alliance - the
groups that organised last year's massive anti-war demonstration in Dublin.

Alliance spokesman Richard Boyd Barrett, of the Irish Anti-War Movement, said:
"Bush should not be welcomed to this country.

"Bush is responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of innocent civilians
in Iraq in a war we now know for certain was based on outright lies about
weapons of mass destruction. It is also clear now that the US have no intention
of allowing real self-determination for the Iraqi people.

"The tyranny of Saddam Hussein has been replaced with the tyranny of a US
colonial occupation and the looting of Iraqi oil and wealth by US multinationals
with links to the Bush administration. The appalling tragedy in Madrid last week
is a brutal confirmation that Bush's war has not made the world a safer place
but a more dangerous one, " the campaigner claimed.

Mr Boyd Barrett also described as "shocking" the revelation that the Irish
government was being asked to give diplomatic immunity to armed US secret
service agents.

Meanwhile, Labour's Justice spokesman Joe Costello also called on the government
to reject the US administration's demands.

"No self-respecting democracy could tolerate handing over responsibility for law
enforcement and policing to the security services of another state, yet this is
what the US authorities appear to be seeking. Those accompanying the Mr Bush
must respect and act in accordance with Irish law, " Mr Costello said.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited


                              859 of 995 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 18, 2003

City Hall "relaxed" about anti-war office protest

BYLINE: Adam Ray

LENGTH: 144 words


Bosses at City Hall would probably have a "relaxed attitude" to employees who
walked off the job in an anti-war protest Mayor Ken Livingstone said today.

A staunch opponent of Britain and America attacking Iraq Mr Livingstone said he
would join anti-war protests as soon as war broke out.

The Stop the War coalition is organising for workers to walk off the job to
protest military action against Iraq and has also planned spontaneous protests
on the day fighting breaks out.

Mr Livingstone said staff at the Greater London Assembly usually worked beyond
normal hours and any who joined industrial action against war would probably get
a "relaxed" response from their employers.

Stop the War has also organised a march through central London this Saturday to
demonstrate against American-led efforts to attack Iraq.

March 18 2003 13:31

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                              860 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday

APML to hold protest against atrocities in IOC

SECTION: Vol. 21 No. 296

LENGTH: 173  words


All Pakistan Muslim League (APML) would hold protest against the atrocities
being committed in Indian Occupied Kashmir (IOK) and illegal occupation of India
over this territory today Thursday .

APML would also protest against the ceasefire violations and civilian casualties
on Pakistani side.

The protest will be participated by APML Azad Jammu  and  Kashmir and party's
federal capital chapter. APML secretary general Dr Mohammad Amjad alongside
central leadership would lead the protest at National Press Club Islamabad.

This protest has been scheduled at the occasion of 69 years of Indian ccupation
when Maharaja Hari Singh in collaboration with Jawahar Lal Nehru and Lord
Mountbatten fraudulently occupied the valley.

APML political workers would arrive at Islamabad under the leadership of PML AJ
and K leader Javed Akhtar Mughal. A large number of APML workers would
participate this protest against India. APML general secretary has assigned
party's federal capital women wing President Syeda Firdous all arrangements of
this protest.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              862 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                            January 18, 2016 Monday

Biafra: Pockets Of Protests Recorded In Enugu

BYLINE: Our Reporter

LENGTH: 396 words


(ENUGU) The second round of protests embarked upon by MASSOB, IPOB and other
Pro-Biafra groups in continuation of their demand for the release of Nnamdi Kanu
yielded poor results in Enugu where pockets of protests were recorded. Most
parts of the city was generally calm, with people going about their normal
businesses without any form [...]

(ENUGU)

The second round of protests embarked upon by MASSOB, IPOB and other Pro-Biafra
groups in continuation of their demand for the release of Nnamdi Kanu yielded
poor results in Enugu where pockets of protests were recorded.

Most parts of the city was generally calm, with people going about their normal
businesses without any form of distraction.

There were however pockets of protest in the densely populated Abakpa Nike, a
suburb of the town where the Pro-Biafra faithful marched round in demonstration
chanting patriotic songs.

The protest, which started at about 11 am, lasted for about three hours as
protesters hoisted Biafran flags and chanted Biafran patriotic songs and special
renditions dedicated to Mr Nnamdi Kanu, the Igbo separatist leader.

Apart from the traffic jam within the Abakpa Nike axis of Enugu, while the
protest lasted it was very peaceful as policemen deployed to the area watched
and monitored the activities of the protesters from a close distance.

The partial success of yesterday's Pro-Biafra protests in Enugu may not be
unconnected with earlier warnings from the Enugu state police command, which
cautioned parents and their wards to stay away from the protests.

A press statement from the office of the state police public relations officer,
Mr Ebere Amaraizu, stressed that the command working in partnership with other
security agencies will be very resolute in the application of the law in dealing
with any person who engages in any act capable of causing a breach of the peace.

Meanwhile, the Movement for the Actualization of a Sovereign State of Biafra
(MASSOB) has replied former President Obasanjo, insisting that, contrary to his
claims in the media, Biafra is not dead and will never die.

In a statement issued in Enugu by MASSOB, spokesman Samuel Edeson told the
former President that neither killings nor detention of MASSOB members during
his administration had stopped the agitation for Biafran independence.

(Petrus Obi, SUN NEWS ONLINE)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/364/1228/99/145314137117.jpg



LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228


                   Copyright 2016 The Sun Publishing Limited
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              863 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 11, 2015 Friday

'Police action intolerance of Congress govt'

SECTION: GUWAHATI

LENGTH: 333 words


GUWAHATI: Assam BJP president Sarbananda Sonowal termed the police action
against saffron party supporters during a protest programme here on Wednesday as
intolerance by the ruling Congress government.

BJP's Dispur Gherao stir was aimed at highlighting the failures of the state
government while the assembly session is under way. BJP protestors were
prevented by police at several places when they started to march from Khanapara
Veterinary Ground to the assembly complex in Dispur. However, some of managed to
cross over the barricade and reach close to the assembly complex.

"Chief minister Tarun Gogoi showed extreme intolerance by trying to prevent our
democratic and peaceful protest. Huge police forces were deployed to prevent us.
But despite that we could register our protest against the government," said
Sonowal, who is also Union minister of state for sports, after the protest.

Asked whether BJP had the permission from the government for staging the
protest, Sonowal said it was their constitutional right to register protest
democratically.

However, former Congress heavyweight and newly inducted BJP member Himanta Biswa
Sarma however, said the administration did not reply to BJP's intimated about
the Dispur Gherao stir. "As the administration did not reply to our letter, we
deemed it that permission had been given. The administration was well aware
about our protest programme," Sarma said.

Sonowal said the objective of the protest was to point out the failures of the
state government in keeping its promises. "What happened to the development
packages announced by the chief minister in 2011 for the Barak Valley and
flood-affected Dhemaji district? There were so many big promises made and not
fulfilled. Corruption has taken a deep root in the state, and BJP wants to root
it out," Sonowal said.

The saffron party planned a district-level protest across the state on Friday
against the police highhandedness during Wednesday's demonstration.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              864 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                October 25, 2015

Returning award only way to protest, Gulzar says

LENGTH: 299  words


Patna: Noted lyricist Gulzar has come out in support of authors returning their
Sahitya Akademi awards in protest of the growing religious intolerance in the
country, saying this is the only way a writer can register protest.



Many writers have returned their Akademi awards to protest the killing of
Kannada writer MM Kalburgi and other growing instances of attacks on
intellectuals.

Gulzar, 81, said while the killing was not Akademi's fault, the authors wanted
the institution to recognize and protest against the incident.

"The murder that has hurt us all is somewhere the fault of the system/
government ... Returning the award was an act of protest. Writers don't have any
other way to register their protest. We have never witnessed this kind of
religious intolerance. At least, we were fearless in expressing ourselves,"
Gulzar said.

Expressing concern over the growing instances of communal intolerance, he
rubbished claims that the writers decision to return the award was politically
motivated.

"The murder that has hurt us all is somewhere the fault of the system/government
... Returning the award was an act of protest. Writers don't have any other way
to register their protest. We have never witnessed this kind of religious
intolerance. At least, we were fearless in expressing ourselves," Gulzar said.

Expressing concern over the growing instances of communal intolerance, he
rubbished claims that the writers decision to return the award was politically
motivated.

"Never thought that a situation like this would come where a person's religion
is asked before his name. It was never like this ... What politics can a writer
do? A writer just speaks from his heart, mind and soul. They are the conscience
keepers of the society. They are the keepers of the soul of the society," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              865 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

'ANC a victim of its own success'

BYLINE: Nwabisa Makunga, Rochelle De Kock; Mkhululi Ndamase

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 813 words


Protests not due to government's service delivery failures - Zuma
 Over the past 20 years, remarkable achievements have been made in increasing
access to services

 BREAKING his silence since a wave of violent protests swept through the country
in recent weeks, President Jacob Zuma yesterday said the ANC government was a
victim of its success.


 In a highly anticipated speech which Zuma said was "not to present the
programme of action for this year", he said efforts by the government had
transformed South Africa to "a much better place to live in than in 1994".
 Last night's state of the nation address in parliament was Zuma's last for his
first term in office and a significant one on the eve of what is expected to be
a highly contested general election on the 20th anniversary of democracy.
 Zuma spoke as the country witnessed a wave of violent service delivery protests
in several communities, including Nelson Mandela Bay, where angry residents took
to the streets burning tyres, private and public property.
 "In last year's address, I raised my concern with the manifestation of violence
in some of the protests in our country," Zuma said. "Violent protests have taken
place again around the country in the past few weeks.
 "Also worrying is what appears to be premeditated violence, as is the case with
the use of petrol bombs and other weapons during protests.
 "The democratic government supports the right of citizens to express
themselves. However, when protests threaten lives and property and destroy
valuable infrastructure intended to serve the community, they undermine the very
democracy that upholds the right to protest.
 "The dominant narrative in the case of the protests in South Africa has been to
attribute them to alleged failures of government.
 "However the protests are not simply the result of failures of government but
also of the success in delivering basic services," he said to jeers from
opposition benches. "When 95% of households have access to water, the 5% who
still need to be provided for feel they cannot wait a moment longer."
 Boasting about the government's successes over the past 20 years, Zuma said:
"On average, the economy has grown at 3.2% a year from 1994 to 2012 despite the
global recession which claimed a million jobs. Working together as government,
business, labour and the community sector, we nursed the economy to a recovery.

 "The national wealth, measured in terms of GDP, has grown to more than
R3.5-trillion."
 Speaking on job creation Zuma said: "Jobs are now being created again. There
are now 15 million people with jobs in the country, the highest ever in our
history."
 However DA leader in parliament Lindiwe Mazibuko said Zuma was "piggybacking"
on the successes of predecessors Thabo Mbeki and Nelson Mandela. "We want to
know how many jobs have been created since he took over as president. The answer
is we have instead lost jobs," Mazibuko said.
 Zuma said more than 650000 jobs were created last year, according to Stats SA.
"We have created 3.7 million work opportunities over the past five years. Our
people obtain an income and skills from the public works programme, which they
use to seek formal employment."
 He also listed as successes:
 oHigher Education: "Student enrolments at universities increased by 12% while
further education and training college enrolments increased by 90%. We have
increased the budgets of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme to R9-billion
to meet rising demand."
 oBasic Education: "The matric pass rate has gone up from around 61% in 2009 to
78% last year ... We have also been investing in teacher training and are
re-opening teacher training colleges to meet the demand."
 oHousing: "About 3 million housing units and more than 855000 serviced sites
were delivered since 1994. Nearly 500 informal settlements have been replaced
with quality housing and basic services over the past five years."
 oWater, sanitation and electricity: "Over the past 20 years, remarkable
achievements have been made in increasing access to services such as water,
sanitation and electricity. Government has begun an intensive programme to
eliminate the bucket system as part of restoring the dignity of our people."
 However in Nelson Mandela Bay the project has stalled as the city has yet to
spend a cent of its R9-million 2013-14 budget to build flush toilets according
to the metro's mid-term budget and performance assessment report.
 Zuma also listed as a success the city's new Intergrated Public Transport
System which he said was being built. This despite several delays in the
construction of bus lanes and the rollout of the project, thanks to financial
mismanagement and clashes between city officials and taxi bosses.
 SOLEMN MOMENT: President Jacob Zuma stands during the playing of the national
anthem for the opening of parliament yesterday Picture: HALDEN KROG

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              867 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            January 10, 2014 Friday

Judges reject DSI protester warrant call

LENGTH: 263  words


The Department of Special Investigation (DSI) has failed to secure warrants for
the arrest of 35 anti-government protest leaders on insurrection charges.

The Criminal Court yesterday rejected the DSI's request to issue the warrants,
saying the protest leaders, including People's Democratic Reform Committee
(PDRC) secretary-general Suthep Thaugsuban, posed no flight risk.

The court said some of the protest leaders had received summonses and declared
they were ready to appear at the DSI to acknowledge the charges. But it was
unclear as to whether other protest leaders had received their summonses.

The court told the DSI that to prevent confusion, they were to reissue summonses
for all 35 suspects.

The protest leaders face charges of insurrection for allegedly attempting to
overthrow the government, inciting people to break the law, instigating chaos
and violence and insulting foreign states' representatives.

DSI director-general Tarit Pengdith earlier said that if and when the
demonstration leaders are arrested, the DSI would then plan to request detention
orders for them from the Criminal Court.

The lawyers representing the protest leaders objected to the warrant request by
the DSI, arguing the protest was non-violent and complied with the constitution.

They added the DSI should have issued two summonses to ensure every suspect was
properly notified.

Lawyer Sawad Charoenpol said some of those facing insurrection charges were not
protest leaders. They were public speakers invited by the PDRC to the rally
stage and did not regularly visit the protest site, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              868 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Adnkronos International, Rome

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

Charges pressed against 3 activists under new protest law

BYLINE: Adnkronos International, Rome

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words


Dec. 05--CAIRO _ Prosecutors in Cairo prosecution have charged three prominent
Egyptian activists with breaking a new protest law by taking part in an
unauthorised demonstration and with assaulting security forces.

The activists are blogger Ahmed Douma, 6 April youth movement founder Ahmed
Maher and another leading member of the movement, Mohamed Adel.

Douma was arrested at his home on Thursday and announced his arrest via his
Twitter account.

Douma and Adel are accused of participation in an unauthorised demonstration
last week to show solidarity with Maher as he turned himself in to authorities
on an arrest warrant.

Maher's arrest warrant followed charges that he participated on 26 Novemeber in
another unauthorised protest against military trials for civilians.

Islamist and liberals as well as human rights groups have decried the
newly-issued protest law which allows security forces to disperse gatherings
that have not been previously approved.

Police are also allowed to ban protests deemed to pose a threat to public order
and individuals who break the law are subject to jail terms and fines.

Pro-democracy activists have organised several protests in defiance of the law
which critics say denies Egyptians the right to free assembly and peaceful
protests..

Several activists have been arrested for organising or taking part in
unauthorised rallies since the protest law was enacted last month, among them
renowned blogger Alaa Abdel-Fattah.

In April, Douma was detained for calling since-deposed Islamist president
Mohamed Morsi a killer and a criminal and later fined 20,000 Egyptian pounds
(2,900 dollars).

He was the first prominent critic of Morsi to be convicted on such charges.

An activist since the rule of ousted strongman Hosni Mubarak, Douma was also
arrested in 2012  following clashes with soldiers outside the cabinet office
near Cairo's iconic Tahrir Square.

The clashes took place during the Egypt's rule by a military council after the
ousting of longtime ruler Hosni Mubarak in February 2011.

___ (c)2013 Adnkronos International (Rome) Visit Adnkronos International (Rome)
at www.adnkronos.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131205-YR-EGYPT-PROTEST-20131205

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YR


                     Copyright 2013 Adnkronos International


                              869 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                              July 9, 2013 Tuesday

BDP to launch 'standing man' protests to call for democratization

LENGTH: 410  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- In a bid to prompt the Justice and Development Party (AK
Party) government to take steps towards democratization as part of the ongoing
settlement process aimed at resolving the country's terrorism problem, the
pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) will launch "standing man" protests
in three Istanbul neighborhoods on July 21.



"Standing man" protests first came to public attention last month when a Turkish
man named Erdem Gündüz stood silently for eight hours, without moving or
speaking, in the middle of Taksim Square, the flashpoint of days-long protests,
in a show of solidarity with the Gezi Park protesters.

Facing the Atatürk Cultural Center -- a building the government is determined to
replace with a modern opera house -- Gündüz's protest provided another peaceful
face to the protests, long described by the government of being violent. He was
eventually joined by hundreds of others in similar protests across the country.


Inspired by Gündüz's silent protest, the BDP will hold "standing man" protests
in the Kadiköy, Taksim and Bagcilar neighborhoods to tell the government "take a
step" for democratization.

The goal of the protests, which are expected to spread across the country, is to
accelerate the ongoing settlement process with the terrorist Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK) without any confrontation with security forces.

T-shirts prepared by the BDP especially for these protests will include Kurds'
demands such as the abolishment of the village guard system.

The BDP says since weapons have been silenced in the country and the PKK no
longer resorts to any acts of violence, it is now the government's turn to take
action to fulfill Kurds' demands.

Their demands include moves such as abolishment of the Anti-terrorism Law (TMK),
amendment of some articles of the Turkish Penal Code (TCK), expansion of the
right to assemble, recognition of cemevis (Alevi places of worship) by the
state, education in the mother tongue, making necessary amendments to the
Political Parties Law and release of ailing prisoners. The BDP has already
submitted its demands to the government in a list.

The government has been sponsoring talks with the PKK for several months in
order to resolve the country's long-standing terrorism and Kurdish problems. As
part of the process, the PKK, which has been waging a bloody war in the
country's Southeast since 1984, has begun to withdraw from Turkish soil.

(Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              870 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2013 Monday

Turkish minister says protests target premier

LENGTH: 328 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Protests in Turkey Target Premier: EU Minister"]

ANKARA (AA) -Turkey's European Minister and Chief Negotiator Egemen Bagis said
on Monday the ongoing anti-government protests had nothing to do with Taksim
Gezi Park but they targeted Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

In a written statement, Bagis said Turkey was taking "the biggest strides to
become a global power" but there were some circles "disturbed by Turkey's
growth."

"Some feel humiliated as Turkey grows. Some have realized that they have been
silenced as the society raised their voices. Some have lost sleep when we talked
about justice and development [...] Today is the day for unity. Today is the day
when resentments should be forgotten and left aside," Bagis said.

Bagis said protests initially started with environmental concerns but then they
were exploited, adding, "those who cannot defeat us with their own efforts have
begun exploiting the protests deceiving our children. But this society has not
given any credit to those provocations in the past ten years and it will not
after these ten days since the protests broke out."

Bagis said western media had made a mistake and revealed "hypocrisy by showing
their feelings towards Turkey."

"Western media have made a mistake. They thought the protests in Turkey were
similar to the ones in Egypt's Tahrir Square. They are not aware of the fact
that Turkish nation had its liberation struggle in 2002 that is when the ruling
Justice and Development (AK) Party came into power [...] They had better not
call these protests as a civil resistance. These protests have given a great
deal of damage to Turkey," said Bagis.

Bagis said the protests were "an operation" to prevent Turkey and its economy
from growing and ending terrorism.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1032
gmt 10 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              871 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 152

LENGTH: 223  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Saturday.

According to details, the members of the Sindh Professors and Lecturers'
Association (SPLA) recorded a protest demonstration against the non appointment
of the External for conducting the practical examinations by the BISE Hyderabad.
The heirs of a youth named Shahzad, resident of Station Road recorded a protest
demonstration for arrest of his accused murders. The protestors said that their
community youth was killed by a man named Majid Qureshi on the 24th May, 2013 in
the jurisdiction of the Forte Police Station, while the concerned authorities
have still not succeeded to arrest the accused murderer. On the occasion, the
protestors demanded of the high-ups to take notice of the matter and ensure
arrest of their youth's murderer.

The activists of the Jeay Sindh Tehreek Hyderabad chapter staged a protest
demonstration against the target killing of Sindhi people in Karachi. The
employees of the Food Department recorded a protest demonstration against the
Food Controller. While talking to newsmen, the protestors including Ghulam
Mustafa Memon, Ghulam Ali Khaskheli and others accused the Food Controller of
corruption and demanded of the concerned authorities to conduct an enquiry
against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              872 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Social protest against austerity measures on Saturday night;
Leaders of the 2011 tent protest are organizing a demonstration for Saturday
night to protest the 2013-14 austerity budget.

BYLINE: Guy Katsovich

LENGTH: 284 words


Leaders of the 2011 tent protest are organizing a demonstration for Saturday
night to protest the 2013-14 austerity budget, amid growing signs of social
ferment on social networks.

Tent protest leader Dafni Leef is calling for a demonstration outside the home
of Minister of Finance Yair Lapid tomorrow. "The groups of the 'not nice people'
and the maabarot (immigrant camps) are inviting the general public to a warning
encampment and demonstration of fury on Thursday outside the home of Minister of
Finance Yair Lapid. Bring tents and placards, food, sleeping bags, and musical
instruments. The encampment will last for one night as a warning and to prevent
by any means the austerity measures from being passed," states pamphlets
announcing the event.

Tent protest leader MK Stav Shafir (Labor) wrote on her Facebook page, "Lapid's
definition of 'hope' is very odd. You wouldn't want to include it in the lyrics
of the national anthem, especially not the part about raising VAT by one percent
to 18%, and definitely not the chapter which describes how a 1.5% hike on
'everybody's' income tax contributes to Israel's economy."

Cottage cheese boycott organizer Itzik Alrov said, "The present budget proposal
is an updated version of the taking of the poor man's sheep. Instead of the
Finance Ministry's officials taking Yair Lapid's proposals from before the
elections, the finance minister has chosen the easy path of increasing the
burden on and completely shattering the middle class, exactly the horrible plans
that sat in the ministry's drawers from before."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
May 8, 2013

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2013

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              873 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                             October 7, 2012 Sunday

Hypocritical media

BYLINE:  Syed Hassam Ahmed

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Vol. 12 No. 461

LENGTH: 220  words


Media is considered as one of the most important pillars of the State and this
remains an unquestionable fact as it continues to conduct its work on the
directions and commandments of the State authorities.

This fact of slavery to the government became more evident when it joined hands
with the government to malign the peaceful anti-America protests staged across
the country against the blasphemous movie. The government conferred an important
task to media to defame the protests and label them as emotional, angry and
violent mobs.

Media with the aid of government initiated negative propaganda against the
peaceful protesters and shaped the nonviolent protests as inhuman demonstrations
all of a sudden.

What it did was giving maximum time and exclusive reporting to angry protests
led by government thugs and not giving sufficient coverage to hundreds of other
peaceful protests staged across the country including the most peaceful protests
by university students on Thursday and the one at Numaish Chowrangi on Friday.

Our media diverted the whole momentum and discussion against the blasphemy to
the discussion that the protesters were extremists and they could not even
record their protests peacefully.

I suggest our media to show some maturity now and behave responsibility by
showing both sides of the picture.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              877 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Beijing bans anti-Japan protests

BYLINE: Yasushi Kouchi, Yomiuri Shimbun Correspondent, Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING--The Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau instructed city residents
Wednesday to stop anti-Japanese protests via short text messages that stated the
"protests have settled down."

The text messages indicate the Chinese government, which had not imposed
measures restricting protests regarding Japan's purchase of three of the Senkaku
Islands, has changed its policy and decided to ban such protests in the capital
for the moment.

The messages were sent to Beijing residents' cell phones Wednesday morning, and
stated: "Traffic in the embassy district has returned to normal. Do not go to
that area for any more protests."

Automobile regulations for the road in front of the Japanese Embassy in Beijing
were also lifted. As of noon Wednesday, no protests had been held in front of
the embassy. Despite calls for demonstrations in other areas of the city
Wednesday, no protests had been reported on the day.

More ships spotted

The number of Chinese surveillance ships sailing in and around the contiguous
zone near the Senkaku Islands in Ishigaki, Okinawa Prefecture, increased to 14
on Wednesday, sources said.

A Japan Coast Guard patrol boat found that two new Chinese fishery surveillance
ships entered the 22-kilometer strip beyond Japan's territorial waters on
Wednesday morning.

Twelve other ships--10 marine surveillance ships and two fishery surveillance
ships--that had entered the zone Tuesday were also seen sailing in areas near
the contiguous zone on Wednesday.

The JCG has dispatched patrol boats to the zone. Exercising caution, the boats
ran parallel to the Chinese ships.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              879 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 393

LENGTH: 329  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor o their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to details, the
activists of JSQM taluka Khipro, led by Ghulam Rasool Shar and others recorded a
protest demonstration for the development of their area. The residents of
village Bachal Solangi led by Murad Ali Solangi and others Hyderabad staged a
protest demonstration for the provision of facilities to them.

The activists of the Jeay Sindh Deshi Naari Tehreek led by Salma Bano and others
staged a protest demonstration for arrest of the culprits involved in attack on
Wildlife Department employee Ghulam Ali Chhalgari. A man namely Ghulam Abbas
Mangrio, resident of Tando Wali Muhammad Hyderabad recorded a protest
demonstration against unemployment. A man namely Rasheed Ali Rajput, resident of
Khursheed Colony Kotri recorded a protest demonstration against the occupation
of his residential plot by the Police officer. A local journalist namely Iqbal
Khaskheli, resident of Sehrish Nagar Qasimabad recorded a protest demonstration
for provision of justice to him. A man namely Dr Aftab Jamali, resident of
Gulistan-e-Sajjad Qasimabad has demanded of the high ups to take action against
the schoolteacher of the Army Public School Hyderabad, who subjected his son
Arham Aftab to torture.

A man namely Abdul Majeed, resident of Sadaat Colony Tando Allahyar recorded a
protest demonstration for arrest of the accused killers of his brother.
Meanwhile, the members of Save Sindh University Committee Hyderabad took out a
protest rally from Nasim Nagar Chowk against the controversial Vice Chancellor
of the University of Sindh Dr Nazir Mughal. The protestors were led by Senior
Vice Chairman of JSQM Akash Mallah, STPP leader Muzaffar Kalhoro, Abrar Kazi of
Awami Jamhoori Party, SUTA leaders Irfana Mallah, Azhar Ali Shah, Rabia Memon,
Punhal Sario, Mukhtiar Abbasi and others. The leaders demanded removal of the VC
Dr Nazir A Mughal.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              880 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                              May 25, 2012 Friday

TO BE PUNISHED FOR CONTACTS WITH THE AMERICANS

BYLINE: Mikhail Rubin, Pyotr Kozlov

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 590

LENGTH: 423 words



HIGHLIGHT: NON-PARLIAMENTARY OPPOSITION PLANS A NATIONWIDE PROTEST ACTION IN
SEPTEMBER; <


According to Aleksei Navalny, the non-parliamentary opposition planned a
nationwide protest action for September. Experts warn that the forthcoming rise
of tariffs will probably augment the turnout.

The March of the Millions on May 6 was a protest restricted to Moscow alone.
Before that, the opposition had organized simultaneous protests in Russian
regions on December 24 and February 4. Protests then took place in major Russian
cities including St. Petersburg.

The opposition intends to wrap up the 2011-2012 political season in Moscow with
a demonstration walking down Tverskaya Street to Borovitskaya Square on June 12.
Application for the demonstration culminating in a rally will be submitted on
May 29.

"Organization of the march in June is what we are focused on at this point,"
said Boris Nemtsov of the Popular Freedom Party. "Anyway, we'd better start
thinking about expansion of the social base of protests. We know now that
turnout at protests with political demands is circa 10,000, that's probably
maximum. We can only hope that protest actions with economic and social demands
will draw even more people.

Sergei Davidis of Solidarity reckoned that organizers of protests ought to give
a thought to new demands. Their list have been practically unchanged since
adoption at the first Bolotnaya Square meeting in December - snap elections,
political reforms, release of political prisoners from jails. "Time to make the
demands more specific... and perhaps suggest an action plan for their
implementation. Since all forces of the opposition agree that something is
definitely wrong with what the authorities try to palm off as political reforms,
we'd better draw an alternative law on gubernatorial elections... and so on."

Political scientist Igor Bunin agreed that economic problems disturbed many more
Russians than the matter of Vladimir Putin's legitimacy ever would. "With the
tariffs about to go up, the authorities themselves recruit people for protests."

Pollsters say that every fourth Russians is convinced that protests wind down
mostly on account of being fruitless. Twenty percent respondents meanwhile
disagree. According to sociologists, 41% Russians knew of the May protests in
Moscow (12% less than had known about December protests against the rigged
parliamentary election). The number of the Russians prepared to participate in
protests dropped from 11% in December to 7% in May. Every tenth respondent is of
the opinion that protests ought to be banned.

Source: Izvestia (Moscow issue), No 95, May 25, 2012, p. 2

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              881 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 212

LENGTH: 267  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Tuesday.

According to details, the residents of village Chakar Khan Khaskheli Tando
Allahyar led by Imam Bux, Hamiduddin Muhammad and others staged a protest
demonstration for arrest of the killers of their community man namely Shoukat
Khaskheli. The contract based employees of the NADRA led by Sohail Khan, Saeed
Khan, Jamal Abro and others recorded a protest for the regularization of their
services. The employees of Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Women's Centre Qasimabad led
by Reshma Devi, Mumtaz, Ghulam Ali and others staged a protest demonstration for
the regularization of their services and issuance of their withheld salaries.

The contract based employees of the NCHD led by Raheela Mirjat, Imran Shaikh,
Shafi Mallah and others staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of
their services. The members of the All Pakistan Clerks' Association Sindh led by
Asad Durrani, Pervez Baloch, Zaheer Qaimkhani and others took out a protest
rally which after marching through various routes culminated outside the local
press club for the increase in their salaries. The family members of the missing
JSMM leader Murtaza Chandio led by Rasheeda Chandio, Sarang Chandio and others
continued their protest outside the Sindh High Court Circuit Bench Hyderabad for
the recovery of Murtaza Chandio. The members of Sindh Paramedical Staff's
Association including Nazar Rajper, Latif Otho, and others boycotted their
duties and staged a protest demonstration in favour of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              882 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 7, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Large-scale protest action to be held in front of Georgian parliament

BYLINE: N. Kirtskhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 190 words


Nov. 07--TBILISI, Georgia -- Protest action demanding the resignation of the
authorities will be held at the instigation of the Labour Party in front of the
Georgian parliament at 15:00 pm today, Nov. 7. As the party leader Shalva
Natelashvili said, his party fulfils the Georgian people's will and announces an
'autumn of national disobedience'.

"We expect all sons of the motherland to attend a rally demanding the country's
deliverance from the source of all our misery -- Saakashvili, in front of the
parliament at 15:00 pm on Nov.7. Tribuna will be free," Mr. Natelashvili said.

He said the appropriate protest action will also take place in front of the
White House in Washington on Nov. 23.

"The protest action will take place at the place where the dictator was
previously appointed," Mr. Natelashvili said.

A coalition of NGOs indicated they would be joining the action, but the
political parties do not intend to take part.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2011 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111107-1AZ-BRF-Large-scale-protest
-action-to-be-held-in-front-of-Georgian-parliament-1107-20111107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011


                              883 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday

Programme summary of Kyrgyz TV "Ala-Too" news 1330 gmt 4 Nov 11

LENGTH: 777 words


Presenter: Mirbek Moldakunov.

1.0001 Headlines over video.

2.0148 The head of the People's Republic of China congratulates Almazbek
Atambayev on winning the presidential election. Video shows pictures of
Atambayev and Chinese leader.

3.0224 The head of the Russian Orthodox Church congratulates Almazbek Atambayev
on winning the presidential election. Video shows pictures of Atambayev and the
patriarch.

4.0250 Ata-Jurt party leader Kamchybek Tashiyev addresses Kyrgyz citizens and
asks them to refrain from organizing protests against the current government.
Video shows Tashiyev's address.

5.0805 Presidential candidate Kubanychbek Isabekov concedes defeat and
congratulates Almazbek Atambayev on winning the presidential elections. Video
shows a press conference; Isabekov saying that he is not going to organize
protests.

6.0913 Presenter says protests in Osh, southern Kyrgyzstan, have been stopped.
No video.

7.0928 Similarly protests in Dzhalal-Abad, southwestern Kyrgyzstan, stopped at
1400 due to upcoming Muslim holidays. Video shows the protest.

8.0945 Presenter says that several public activists in Bishkek urge Kyrgyz
citizens to end protests. Video shows undercover footage of a journalist trying
to bribe people to organize a protest; a press conference.

9.1429 Presenter says that public activists in Osh, southern Kyrgyzstan, have
said that stability in the country is more valuable than political ambitions of
certain people. Video shows Osh city; a press conference; interviews with
ordinary citizens and experts demanding stability in the country.

10.1658 Presenter wonders if rallies and protests are the only way to solving
problems and if there is an alternative way to that. Video shows protests;
interviews with ordinary citizens speaking against protests; the mufti asking
Kyrgyz Muslims to abstain from joining protests ahead of Muslim holidays.

11.2008 Presenter says that there have been several incidents of wolves
attacking livestock in Naryn, eastern Kyrgyzstan. Video shows Naryn Region; an
interview with the head of hunters' association thanking the government for its
intention to raise the bounty on wolves; an interview with a hunter complaining
that they don't have enough rifles and asking for government's help.

12.2153 Kyrgyz parliament passes a bill that transfers president's powers to
declare a state of emergency in the country to the parliament. Presenter also
says that the parliament passes a bill allowing customized car number plates to
be sold at auctions. Video shows a parliamentary session.

13.2337 Presenter says that MPs have decided not to hold parliamentary sessions
on Thursday and Friday next week. No video.

14.2356 Presenter says that according to Kyrgyz constitution the break-up of the
current coalition is inevitable. By the law, the head of government and his
ministers should step down. Video shows interviews with MPs giving their
forecast on new parliament alliances.

15.2802 Presenter says that a parliamentary committee approves a bill on the
Public TV and Radio Corporation dismissing the current supervisory board's
members despite the president's objection. Video shows the text of supervisory
board's statement criticizing the parliament's decision.

16.3054 Presenter says that human rights activists, media experts and several
MPs have noted vast improvements in Kyrgyz Public TV's performance since last
year. Video shows the Kyrgyz Public TV office; an interview with the head of the
supervisory board speaking about mechanisms to file a complaint against TV's
work; interviews with journalists saying that some politicians are trying to
seize Kyrgyz Public TV.

17.3612 Presenter says that acting Prime Minister Omurbek Babanov says that the
government needs to assess by the end of this year whether the management of
government-owned companies is efficient. Babanov added that this is necessary in
order to receive a loan from IMF. Video shows a meeting.

18.3658 Presenter says that Id al-Adha is to be celebrated on Sunday, 6
November. Roza Otunbayeva, Almazbek Atambayev, Akmatbek Keldibekov and Omurbek
Babanov wish a happy holiday to citizens. Video shows the text of statements.

19.3907 Presenter says that Kyrgyzstan is to mark another holiday, Press and
Information Day. Roza Otunbayeva and Almazbek Atambayev congratulate media
workers. Video shows a picture of Otunbayeva.

20.4031 Celebrations of Press and Information Day are held at government-owned
publishing house Uchkun. Video shows the publishing house; interviews with
employees about their work; the celebrations.

21.4322 Presenter signs off. End all.

Source: Kyrgyz Television 1, Bishkek, in Russian 1330 gmt 4 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              884 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan TV show urges government to avoid possible "uprising"

LENGTH: 816 words


PTV News in Urdu at 1505 GMT on 17 October broadcasts its thrice weekly current
affairs programme, "Sach to Yeh Hai", or The Truth is This, hosted by anchor
Syed Anwarul Hassan. This talk show tries to explore and understand the
underlying facts and truths behind domestic and international issues with
relevance to Pakistan.

Programme: "Sach to Yeh Hai" or The Truth is This

Reception: Good

Duration: 50 minutes

Guests: 1. Chaudhry Manzoor Ahmed, leader Pakistan People's Party (PPP); 2. Dr
Farukh Saleem, senior analyst; 3. Prof Rashid Amjad, vice chancellor of Pakistan
Institute of Development Economics; 4. Senator Haroon Akhtar.

Hassan begins the programme by saying that "various protests are being staged in
different countries and the people are expressing their //discontent// with the
governments and the systems." Mentioning the 'occupy Wall Street' protest,
Hassan says that "this protest was started in September in the United States but
it has now become a //global protest// with similar protests being staged in
almost 82 countries. On the other hand, the hunger strike and protest of Indian
activist Anna Hazare and the Arab Spring also imply that people are dissatisfied
with the system."

Hassan points out to the various protests being staged in Pakistan and says that
"the protests have not become massive yet but there are lessons to be learned
from the global protests to avoid a similar uprising in Pakistan."

Hassan welcomes Haroon Akhtar to the programme and asks him about the reasons
behind the various global protests. Akhtar replies by saying that "the Arab
Spring was basically against the dictators and in this modern age, the people
have come to realize the value of //freedom//." Akhtar says that "the
//movement// started off and spread through the internet."

Regarding the protests in the western countries including the United States,
Akhtar says that "these protests are against '//unregulated capitalism//.'"

Hassan puts the same question in front of Manzoor Ahmed. Ahmed says that "the
exploitation of resources progresses societies and they are enough to provide
for everyone. However, the multinationals are only concerned about their profits
and are holding productions to gain larger profits."

Answering Hassan's question regarding the situation in coming times, Akhtar says
that "media and social networking is //globalizing movements//."

Responding to Hassan's question regarding the rich-poor divide, Dr Farukh Saleem
says that "the basic issue in the United States is the unfair //profit
distribution// system while Europe has many debts on it."

Hassan asks Rashid Amjad to comment on the reasons for protests. Amjad says that
"the //young people are expressing disenchantment with the existing economic,
social, and political system and the capacity of the leadership to be able to
deliver on the system// so there is a //crisis brewing up//."

Hassan asks Ahmed "there are numerous protests taking place in Pakistan as well.
The people had taken to the streets over the energy crisis prevailing in the
country. The Pakistan Railway employees are protesting against government over
their salary issues. Also, the lady health workers are demanding higher benefits
and salaries. Therefore, could there be a similar uprising against the system in
Pakistan?"

Ahmed replies by saying that "Pakistan has also been hit by the economic
recession like other countries."

Hassan asks Ahmed "is the //social unrest a point of botheration//?" Ahmed
affirms and says that "although there is unrest but Pakistan People's Party
(PPP) has made quick efforts to regulate the system otherwise the situation
would have been worse. The railways, Pakistan International Airline, and many
other government sectors need funding but there is a lack of finance and hence,
the government cannot assist them."

Hassan asks Saleem about the unrest in Pakistan. Saleem says "the major issue is
of budgetary deficit. We expect '//external resources//' to cover the deficit.
This //external resource// is either a debt or an aid but other countries are
not in a position to assist us." Saleem says that "40% Pakistanis are living
below the //poverty line// and poverty and hunger are the basic reasons behind
an unrest and uprising."

Regarding the issue, Rashid Amjad comments that "there is //economic
mismanagement// and //corruption// prevailing in the country. PPP came into
power and vowed to make changes in the energy sector but so far they have not
managed to overcome the crisis."

Amjad adds that "people should pay their taxes but the government should also
ensure that the people receive the //basic public utilities//. The government
should '//deliver//' to the people."

Hassan sums up the programme by saying that the government should deliver to the
nation as it would not only resolve national crises but also politically benefit
PPP.

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in Urdu 1500gmt 17 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              885 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday

Different protests staged in Khairpur

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 257

LENGTH: 168  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Khairpur city on Saturday.

According to details, an elderly man namely Ameer Bux Lashari, resident of Deh
Sohu staged a protest demonstration against his brothers for occupying his
agriculture lands. He demanded of the concerned authorities to provide him
justice. The people of Janwri community, residents of village Janwri staged a
protest demonstration at Luqman Railway crossing against the actions of the
Sukkur Police.

A woman namely Seema w/o Late Muhammad Ali Joyo, resident of Bachal Shah Mohalla
staged a protest demonstration against a Tapedar for selling her agriculture
lands on the basis of fake ownership documents. The members of the Shah Abdul
Latif University Employees Union staged a protest demonstration for arrest of
the accused murderers of their colleague Bakht Ali Phulpoto. The activists of
the Sunni Tehreek recorded a protest demonstration against the increasing rate
of terrorism and extremism.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              886 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday

Syrian opposition says 200 killed in protests

BYLINE:  Monitoring Desk

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 162

LENGTH: 176  words


emocracy protests against President Bashar al-Assad had reached 200. It also
urged the Arab League to impose sanctions on the ruling hierarchy.

Syria, the latest Arab country shaken by mass uprisings against authoritarian
rulers, has witnessed unprecedented protests across the tightly-controlled
country for the last three weeks.

Assad has responded with force - witnesses say security forces have opened fire
on protesters - vague pledges of reform and attempts at appeasing minority
Kurds. Protests have shown no sign of abating but have not yet reached the
levels seen in Tunisia and Egypt where leaders were ultimately overthrown.

"Syria's uprising is screaming with 200 martyrs, hundreds of injured and a
similar number of arrests," the Damascus Declaration group said in a letter sent
on Monday to the secretary general of the Arab League.

The Damascus Declaration is named after a document signed in 2005 by prominent
civic, Islamist and liberal leaders calling for the end of 41 years of Assad
family rule and its replacement with a democratic system.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              887 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Syrian forces kill three protesters in southern city of Deraa

BYLINE: Daily Star Staff

LENGTH: 397 words


DAMASCUS: Syrian security forces killed three protesters in the southern  city
of Deraa Friday, a resident said, in the most violent response to  protests
against Syria's ruling elite since revolts swept through the  Arab world.The
demonstrators were taking part in a peaceful protest demanding political
freedoms and an end to corruption.Smaller protests took place in the central
city of Homs

DAMASCUS: Syrian security forces killed three protesters in the southern city of
Deraa Friday, a resident said, in the most violent response to protests against
Syria's ruling elite since revolts swept through the Arab world.

The demonstrators were taking part in a peaceful protest demanding political
freedoms and an end to corruption.

Smaller protests took place in the central city of Homs and the coastal town of
Banias, activists said.

A crowd briefly chanted slogans for freedom inside the Umayyad Mosque in Old
Damascus. Dozens of security agents who had gathered outside the mosque during
the prayers, pulled out batons as soon as the chants broke out and detained at
least two people.

In Deraa Friday, several thousand people chanted slogans accusing the
president's family of corruption, the resident said.

He added that Hussam Abdel Wali Ayyash, Akram Jawabreh and Ayhem al-Hariri were
shot dead by security forces who were reinforced with troops flown in by
helicopters.

Scores of demonstrators were wounded in the attack in the old quarter of Deraa
near the border with Jordan.

The city appeared quieter at nightfall, with a heavy security presence, the
resident told Reuters.

An official statement said "infiltrators" tried to take advantage of what it
termed as a gathering in Deraa by burning cars and trying to cause chaos, which
required intervention by security forces. The statement did not mention any
casualties.

A video aired on Facebook showed what it described as demonstrators in Deraa
shouting slogans against Syrian tycoon Rami Makhlouf, a cousin of Assad.

"The leadership have given a clear signal that they are not in any hurry to
embark on fundamental political reform," said one diplomat.

Syrian authorities Thursday charged 32 activists with attacking the reputation
of the state, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.

The protesters were detained at Wednesday's rally organized by the relatives of
political prisoners to petition for their release. - Agencies

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2011 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              888 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

Thousands protest in Bahrain

LENGTH: 334  words

DATELINE: Manama


Manama: Thousands of Bahrainis marched in Manama today calling for the fall of
the ruling Sunni dynasty as 18 opposition MPs submitted their letter of
resignation to protest the killing of demonstrators. The throng of protesters
set out from Pearl Square which has become the epicentre of anti-government
protests that began on February 14 marching onto a major highway. The large
flag-waving crowd wound its way down the highway to the Diplomatic Area marching
past the Kuwaiti and Saudi embassies and the Bahraini central bank. The crowd
stopped in front of the Ministry of Justice roaring "Down down Hamad!" , March
01 -- a reference to the Gulf state's king. They then continued down the street,
back toward Pearl Square, as employees from banks and other businesses along the
route, many of them filming with mobile phones, looked on. Thousands of
demonstrators had marched from Pearl Square to the Foreign Ministry and back on
Saturday, after tens of thousands of protesters marched to the square and
rallied there the day before.

Meanwhile, lawmakers said 18 MPs from Al-Wefaq Shi'ite opposition bloc
officially submitted their letter of resignation on Sunday to protest the deaths
of anti-regime demonstrators, seven of whom have been killed by security forces
since the protests began.

Mattar said the head of Parliament would now compile a report on the
resignations and submit it to Parliament, which must accept them or reject them.
If Parliament accepts the resignations, after two months "there will be partial
elections, just for the constituencies which became empty," said Mattar. The
letter from the 18 MPs did not mention King Hamad's reshuffle of the cabinet on
Saturday in a bid to placate anti-government protesters, but lawmakers said the
changes did not meet their demands for reforms Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              889 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

Mass protests across Arab world fail to materialise

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 211 words


However, Jordan's main Muslim opposition group said it wants to give the new
leader a chance to carry out promised political reforms, and yesterday's turnout
was much smaller than in previous protests against rising prices.

The scenes of mass protests in Egypt have riveted the Arab world, and unrest has
spread to other countries, most recently Yemen.

However, expectations of large-scale protests in Arab countries after Friday's
noon prayers, the highlight of the Muslim religious week, did not materialise.

In Syria, where authoritarian President Bashar Assad has resisted calls for
political freedoms, an online campaign calling for protests in the capital,
Damascus, fizzled out. Plainclothes police deployed in key areas of Damascus
yesterday, and no protesters showed up.

In Iraq, residents seizing on the Egypt protests staged two small demonstrations
to protest corruption in their security forces, rampant unemployment and scant
electricity and water supply.

About 100 Iraqis gathered in central Baghdad's famous Mutanabi book market to
complain about limited civil liberties and a lack of services. "No to the
restriction of freedoms," read one of their banners.

Even the march in the Jordanian capital Amman was far smaller than previous
anti-government protests.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              890 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday

Lahore PTCL employees' protest for salary raise

LENGTH: 151  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Aug. 26 -- The employees' of PTCL have staged a protest, for the salary
raise, in front of Lahore Press Club ( LPC). One employee tried to burn himself
in protest but others foiled his attempt.

According to details, the PTCL employees started their protest on Edgerton Road
and took their protest rally up to the Lahore Press Club.

The furious PTCL employees brought out a ceremonial funeral of the management
and after reaching in front of LPC they burnt it.

During protest, one PTCL employee, Abdul Ghafoor, was chanting slogans against
the management with beating his chest in protest, and in between suddenly he
tried to burn himself with fire but his other fellow protesters foiled his
attempt Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              891 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday

Different protest staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1615

LENGTH: 183  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Monday. According to details, the members of the Sindh Professors and Lecturers
Association (SPLA) Hyderabad under the leadership of Yaqoob Chandio and others
staged a protest demonstration against the transfers of their colleagues. The
residents of village Karoro under the leadership of Imtiaz Ali, Irshad Ali and
others staged a protest demonstration against Mukhtiarkar Chhachhro for trying
to occupy their houses.

The former employees of defunct SRTC under the leadership of Haji Ghulam Nabi
staged a protest demonstration for the provision of their remaining dues. A
youth namely Ahmed Ali Sehto, resident of Setharja staged a protest
demonstration against his brothers for not giving him share from his father's
property. A man namely Khair Muhammad Chohan, resident of Kotri district
Jamshoro demonstrated for the arrest of the killers of his son namely Sadiq
Chohan. The residents of village Jam Khan Laghari under the leadership of
Muhammad Rafique and others protested against the actions of the Hatri police.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              892 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Protest, counter-protest set for Douglas Anderson;
Kansas church plans to rally against school's 'Laramie Project' play.

BYLINE: CHARLIE PATTON

SECTION: Pg. C-17

LENGTH: 472 words


Both a protest and a counter-protest have been announced for Saturday night
outside Douglas Anderson School of the Arts, which is presenting the play "The
Laramie Project."

Westboro Baptist Church, a Kansas church with a strong anti-gay agenda, has
announced it will have pickets outside the school from 6:45 to 7:30 p.m.
Saturday. The play, which is about the 1998 murder of Matthew Shepard, a
University of Wyoming student who was apparently targeted because he was gay, is
scheduled for 7:30 p.m. There was a performance Thursday and there will be one
at 7:30 p.m. tonight.

Westboro announces many more protests than it actually conducts and has
announced a picket for Sunday in California. So it would not be surprising if
the Westboro pickets are no-shows Saturday.

But a counter-protest has been announced for 6 to 8 p.m. Saturday on the website
of the Douglas Anderson Alumni Association Network.

Douglas Anderson principal Jackie Cornelius said school officials and
Jacksonville police are aware of and prepared for the potential protests.

She said she has an outpouring of support via telephone and e-mail that has been
"reassuring" and that the school never considered canceling the play, which she
said is "anti-hate crime," not pro-gay.

As for a counter-protest, she said "the best way to support the school is just
to come to the play and enjoy it."

But Ray Hollister, a 1999 Douglas Anderson graduate who is helping to organize
the counter-protest, said he objects to Westboro's announced plan not just as an
alumnus but as a Christian.

"The way they portray God and Christianity is wrong," he said.

He said he hopes for a "very loving ... peaceful anti-protest."

Westboro first gained attention in Jacksonville in November 2006, when it
announced plans to picket outside Bethel Baptist Church during the funeral of
Army Cpl. Isaiah Calloway, an Englewood High School graduate killed in action in
Afghanistan.

Nobody from Westboro showed, although the funeral drew several hundred
counter-protesters determined to support Calloway's family.

On its website, Westboro says it pickets military funerals because the deaths
are God's punishment for America's tolerance toward homosexuality.

Westboro also regularly announces pickets of "The Laramie Project," Moises
Kaufman's play about the murder of Shepard, who was tortured and left in a field
near Laramie.

One of the characters in the play is based on Fred Phelps, the church's founder.
In the HBO movie of the play, that character was portrayed by former
Jacksonville resident Michael Emerson, an Emmy-winning actor whose big break
came when he was cast in the lead of Kaufman's New York showcase production of
"Gross Indecency: The Trial of Oscar Wilde."

Officials at Westboro Baptist Church did not respond to a request for an
interview.

charlie.patton@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Florida Times-Union


                              893 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1478

LENGTH: 441  words


Local people staged different protest demonstrations in favour of their demands
outside the Hyderabad press club on Thursday. According to details, the
activists of JSQM Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of Nawab Burdi, Mustafa
Panhwar and others staged a protest demonstration for the release of their
arrested party leaders Akash Mallah and Noor Mohammad Khaskheli. A man namely
Abdul Hayi Arain, resident of Tando Ghulam Ali district Badin staged a protest
demonstration against the Tando Ghulam Ali police.

A man namely Khair Mohammad Chohan, resident of Kotri district Jamshoro staged a
protest demonstration for the arrest of the killers of his son namely Sadiq
Chohan. The reinstated employees of the Sui Southern Gas Company Hyderabad
chapter under the leadership of Zulfiqar Qadri staged a protest demonstration
for posting orders and issuance of their salaries. The members of the Sindh Hari
Porhiyat Council under the leadership of Punhal Sario, Weerji Kolhi and others
staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the accused rapists of Kasturi
Kolhi.

A man namely Mohammad Farhan, resident of Latifabad No. 5 staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of his missing son namely Faizan Ali. A man
namely Jan Mohammad Rajput, resident of Tando Ghulam Ali District Badin staged a
protest demonstration for the removal of an occupation from his home.

A man namely Baloch Noonari along with his 7 children staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of financial assistance. A man namely Ghulam
Hussain Chang, resident of Village Noor Khan Chang Qasimabad staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of financial assistance.

A woman namely Rukhsana Shaikh along with her daughter namely Sultana, resident
of Bihar Colony Kotri district Jamshoro staged a protest demonstration for the
removal of an occupation from her home.

Former employees of the SRTC under the leadership of Haji Ghulam Mohammad Depar
and others continued their protest demonstration for the issuance of their
remaining dues. The activists of PPP Tando Jam chapter under the leadership of
Altaf Hussain Unar continued their protest demonstration against the local PPP
leadership for neglecting them. Activists of the Pakistan Muslim League-N Ladies
Wing under the leadership of Asifa Riaz, Seema Solangi, Parveen Qureshi and
others took out a jubilation rally to celebrate the victory of the candidate of
the PML-N, Imran Zafar in Gujrat. Members of the Sindh Doctors Action Committee
Hyderabad under the leadership of Dr Abdul Razzaq Shaikh, Dr Nisar Ali Shah, Dr
Abdul Rehman Soomro and others took out a protest rally in favour of their
demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              894 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              July 27, 2009 Monday

Maguire calls for end to crackdown in Iran

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 310 words


More than 100 people taking part in a protest in Belfast city centre at the
weekend heard Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mairead Corrigan-Maguire call for an
end to attacks on peaceful protests in Iran.

The veteran peace campaigner took part in the protest at Belfast City Hall to
raise awareness of the violent crackdown on dissent within Iran.

The crackdown by state forces in the Islamic Republic has followed protests in
the wake of last month's presidential elections.

The election saw Mahmoud Ahmadinejad reelected with nearly two thirds of the
vote. His main challenger, Mir Hossein Mousavi, called for the result to be
annulled, alleging poll fraud.

Protests on the streets of the capital, Tehran, and other major cities in Iran
followed, with at least 20 people killed, hundreds arrested and severe
restrictions placed on foreign journalists in the country.

On Saturday campaigners in more than 105 cities around the world held protests
calling for an end to attacks on peaceful protests in Iran.

"The violence by Iranian government against peaceful demonstrators following
recent controversial election results in Iran is unacceptable," Ms Maguire,
left, said.

"I call on the Iranian government to immediately restore civil liberties,
release all political prisoners, and respect the fundamental rights of the
Iranian people."

Amnesty International spokesman Patrick Corrigan said a petition signed by
hundreds of people in Belfast would now be passed on to the Iranian ambassador.

"The political questions facing Iran can only be resolved by the Iranian people
themselves but the violent repression of their internationally guaranteed human
rights are of concern to people the world over," Mr Corrigan said.

"With the round-ups showing no sign of ending, we are deeply concerned for the
fate of hundreds of people now detained in Iran, many in secret locations."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              895 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           September 14, 2008 Sunday

Protest by 'Long Hair', activists at minister's home ruled unlawful

BYLINE: Yvonne Tsui

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 377 words


Lawmaker "Long Hair" Leung Kwok-hung  and five housing activists have been found
guilty of protesting unlawfully outside the Happy Valley home of Michael Suen
Ming-yeung  when he was housing minister.

Magistrate Gary Lam Kar-yan  said that in making his ruling he was making the
first analysis in a Hong Kong court of the right to freedom of speech versus a
resident's right to privacy in his home.

Mr Lam said the six defendants had misunderstood their rights to protest  and
ignored the right of residents to privacy.

Kwun Tong Court heard that the protest over increases in  public housing rents
took place from about 11am to midday on June 3 last year. The protesters had
shouted at Mr Suen to come out of his house and accept their petition letter,
the court heard.

Holding banners over their heads, they  tried to push past a police cordon
inside the courtyard of the Shuk Yuen Building in Green Lane to deliver their
message.  Five police officers and one demonstrator were injured.

The magistrate said the area where the protest took place - in the car park and
vehicle passage to the building - was part of the residence.

"Protection of a private residence overrides freedom of speech and protest,"
said Mr Lam.

"The protesters were not authorised to protest inside the residence and
therefore their protest has no legal basis. Because the protest was not
authorised and was illegal, Mr Suen had no duty to facilitate their demand at
that time.

"I want to emphasise that citizens have a right to choose their ways to protest,
but the court must intervene when the protest is illegal."

Mr Leung, 52, Florence Cheung Man-wai,  38, Au Kwok-kuen,  32, Li Sai-hung,  34,
Cheng Chun-wai,  28, and Hung Kai-tung,  22, had pleaded not guilty in March to
a count of unlawful assembly.

Mr Lam acquitted Au and Li on charges of attacking police officers.

He released all the defendants on bail and adjourned sentencing to September 29
pending community service order reports.

Mr Leung  and the activists  chanted slogans outside the court  after the
hearing, demanding that the government repeal the  law on assembly, saying it
was unconstitutional.

Claiming a police sergeant had lied in court, they said they would reserve their
right to launch a formal complaint.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: Dickson Lee; Protesters at the home of former housing minister
Michael Suen last year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              896 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday
                                   e3 Edition

No guarantee of no violence: ANC

BYLINE: XOLANI MBANJWA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words


ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said today the party could not guarantee
the absence of violence, but promised tight security tomorrow when supporters
assemble to mount support for party leader Jacob Zuma in a bid to send a
chilling message to the country and the bench about "the volatile" implications
of his prosecution.

"We can't guarantee there won't be violence, and it is unfair to ask us whether
there won't be any violence. Life does not work that way," Mantashe said this
morning.

He brushed aside violent demonstrations that rocked Durban city centre yesterday
when protesters marched to the offices of the National Prosecuting Authority.

"The police might have taken an adversarial approach to the problem, but there
were protests all over the country, and we cannot single that one out and paint
the protests as being disruptive," he said.

ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary Senzo Mchunu also tried to defend the
Durban protest, in which motorists were intimidated and pulled from their cars.

"I do not agree with people who say that our protests get violent. What happened
yesterday was a protest. What will happen tomorrow is support, not a protest. We
are expecting more than 10 000 supporters.

"Those who were arrested at yesterday's protest were later released. We do not
promote violence and chaos when there is a protest. We have planned, together
with the police, to prevent any recurrence of perceived violence," he said this
morning.

He said each province would send supporters and marshals to control the crowd.

"There will be better crowd control and there will be improved security."

Mantashe said there would be tight security tomorrow when Zuma supporters
besiege Pietermaritzburg to be with the ANC president, who will find out whether
Judge Chris Nicholson agrees with his application to declare his prosecution
invalid.

Meanwhile, ANC provincial secretaries were expected to converge at the party
headquarters in Johannesburg today for a grand strategy on the Zuma matter and
demonstrations.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              897 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           December 8, 2007 Saturday

Journalists' stage protest demonstration against media curbs

LENGTH: 214 words


ISLAMABAD : The journalists of Rawalpindi and Islamabad held protest
demonstration against curbs on media and judiciary under the leadership of
President RIUJ Muhammad Afzal Butt in front of Press Club camp office here on
Saturday.

A large number of junior and senior journalists participated in the
demonstration and chanted slogans against curbs on media and judiciary. On this
occasion, President RIUJ while addressing the protestors said that the protest
movement of journalists is going on and their morals are very high.

He said that this movement would continue till the lifting of curbs on media and
restoration of basic human rights adding the new talent would lead this movement
in future.

He announced that protest rally would be taken out in connection with the
International Day of Human Rights from press club camp office to Geo office.
Secretary General RIUJ Mazhar Abbas stressed upon the private TV channels and
newspapers owners to take active part in this movement and ensure their
participation in protest rally.

The protest demonstration, besides others was attended by Gulbaz Satti, Tariq
Warsi, Mazhar Barlas, Jehangir Akhtar, J Salik, Sheheryar, Tariq Usmani, Ashfaq
Sajid, Fauzia Shahid, Asad Mir, Jamil Abbasi, political activists and members of
civil society.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Civil Disruption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2007 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              898 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            December 7, 2007 Friday

Journalists' protest enters 33rd day against PEMRA black laws

LENGTH: 213 words


ISLAMABAD: The Journalists of Rawalpindi and Islamabad on the call of Pakistan
Federal Union of Journalists (PFUJ) continued their protest demonstration for
33rd Day against PEMRA and Press and Publication Amended Ordinance.

Large number of journalists, lawyers as well as members of the civil societies
and political parities workers participated in the protest demonstration.  The
participants of the rally were holding banners and placards and were denouncing
against PEMRA Laws and ban on Private TV Channels.

President Rawalpindi Islamabad Union of Journalists, Afzal Butt while addressing
the protest rally said that journalists throughout Pakistan have become symbol
of protest against the PEMRA Black laws on freedom of media.

The renown anchorperson of Private TV Channel, Hamid Mir has said that
journalists will answer baton and bullet of government with pen. It is for the
first time in history that students, lawyers and journalists are united in
fighting the war of their rights.  He further said that government is
threatening journalists for army action under the army act for revolt.
Similarly, he said that all the journalists' community would march from
Islamabad Press Club to the Office of ban Geo TV on the occasion of Human Rights
Day  on 10th December.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Civil Disruption; Corporate/Industrial News;
Regulation/Government Policy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2007 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              899 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 April 26, 2005

Camera protest set to hit M4

BYLINE: Ben Evans

SECTION: News; Environment; Roads; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 400 words


Thousands of motorists are expected to cause traffic chaos along the M4 this
weekend as they take part in a mass protest against speed cameras.  Police have
blasted the move as dangerous and warned drivers to be prepared for lengthy
tailbacks.

Campaigners are urging drivers to join them in the "slow drive" between Bristol
and London.

It will take place on Saturday - the first day of the May Day Bank Holiday
weekend - and is expected to cause serious congestion for holiday-makers heading
towards the capital and the south east from South Wales.

The protest, which will take place between junctions 14 and 18 of the motorway,
was the brainchild of Robin Summerhill who came up with the idea a week ago.

He set up the drivers' road safety group in response to the roll-out of speed
camera vans on the M4 in Wiltshire.

Organisers of M4 Protest insist they are doing their best to minimise traffic
disruption, including asking protest traffic to keep out of lane three, liaising
with police and running the protest convoy at a target speed of 56mph.

Protest traffic will assemble at both Leigh Delamere and Membury Services from
10am on Saturday.

The protest convoys will leave both services at 11am, travelling west from
Membury and east from Leigh Delamere.

Mr Summerhill said: "If the M4 protest does cause serious congestion then we
would see that as a very strong indication that the public believes policy is
wrong. If people were not upset, they wouldn't attend and there would be no
congestion.

"In short, we blame the Government." The protest comes as figures released by
the RAC today revealed that 67 per cent of motorists believe that speed cameras
have "no positive impact".

Paul Smith, M4 Protest road safety spokesman, added: "Speed cameras have issued
£700 million pounds in fines and made road safety worse.

"Clearly it's time for change." Superintendent Richard Rowland, of Wiltshire
Constabulary operations unit, said the protest was not illegal.

He added: "The proposed action is likely to cause tailbacks along the motorway,
causing frustration to motorists and danger to those at the back of the queue
and to spectators on the opposite carriageway.

"The intentional blockage of the motorway in the manner proposed is dangerous."
Details of the campaign are on the group's website www.m4protest.org.uk"
target="new" class="lblue">www.m4protest.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2005 South Wales Evening Post


                              900 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           February 8, 2003, Saturday

The Advertiser EDITORIAL;
The right to protest and to keep the peace

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 270 words


ORGANISERS of the anti-war protest in South Australia are treading the thinnest
of fine lines with their talk of widespread civil disobedience.

The right of public protest is as fundamental to a democracy as the secret
ballot. It is ironic that much of the protest would effectively support the
odious regime of Saddam Hussein.

That, however, is beside the point. The right exists and must be upheld.

What would be intolerable, however, would be violent protest, especially as the
organisers apparently envisage action by school students. With or without this
element it is likely that given the level of unease shown in opinion polls over
a new Middle East War, families and the elderly will be in the crowds.

Mass protests easily get out of hand and organisers should do their utmost to
restrain any hotheads.

This seems to be acknowledged by some of them with the entirely correct
observation by NOWAR spokesman Mike Khizam, that violence is counter-productive.
Indeed, it should have no place in a supposed peace protest.

The organisers are apparently harnessing technology such as websites and mobile
phones. This also provides a medium for spreading the word that forceful protest
is not a synonym for violence and that those who deliberately engage in civil
disobedience cannot complain if the laws they openly flout are upheld.

Contrast the ugly Vietnam Moratorium protests of the seventies which turned the
streets of Adelaide into a battleground and the marches for reconciliation here
and elsewhere across Australia of 2000. There is a choice, it is between the two
faces of protest.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              901 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                    January 18, 2003 Saturday Final Edition

Anti-war groups plan downtown protest today

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Bob Harvey and Jake Rupert

SECTION: City; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 329 words

Demonstrators will hit the streets of Ottawa today -- 12 years after the
beginning of the Gulf War -- as part of a worldwide "Day of Action" against a
possible war in Iraq.

The protest is officially to begin at 2 p.m. on Parliament Hill, but some
demonstrators will head to the Hill an hour earlier from the University of
Ottawa.

At about 2:30 p.m., the protest is to move to the U.S. Embassy on Sussex Drive,
before heading to the Department of National Defence building on Colonel By
Drive, where organizers plan to serve a "civilian peace warrant" on defence
department staff.

Similar protests will be held today in a number of Canadian cities, from
Antigonish, N. S., to Whitehorse, as well as in 22 other countries, including
the United States, Britain and Pakistan.

The protest in Ottawa is scheduled to be over at 4 p.m. Streets will not be
closed during the demonstration, but drivers should expect periodic slowdowns in
the downtown core.

Mary Foster, one of the organizers of the Ottawa protest, said the World Health
Organization predicts that if Iraq is invaded, 100,000 people will die in the
attack, and another 400,000 of the country's population of 23 million will die
of disease caused by the destruction of water-purification plants and
infrastructure.

"I'm scared. An invasion is tremendously dangerous," said Ms. Foster, who is
part of the Committee for Peace in Iraq. "We are concerned about blowback. When
people get unhappy, they attack. I don't want another Sept. 11 to happen."

Rev. Marion Pardy, moderator of the United Church of Canada, has urged members
of her denomination to participate in this or other anti-war protests. United
Church congregations have also been urged to pray on Sunday for non-violent
solutions.

Opinion polls suggest Canadians are divided on the issue. A Leger Marketing
survey in November showed 52 per cent oppose an invasion of Iraq, while a
December poll by EKOS found Canadians almost evenly divided.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              902 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Coptic activists denied permit to protest on Maspero anniversary

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 428  words


The Interior Ministry denied Coptic youth activists a permit to hold a protest
ahead of the fifth anniversary of the deadly Maspero clashes, citing "security
reasons."

The Maspero massacre took place on October 9, 2011, during the rule of the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF). Clashes between the army, deployed
in the vicinity of the Maspero State Television Building at the time, and mostly
Coptic protesters left 27 people dead.



The protests that were violently dispersed by military forces were staged
against the demolition of an allegedly unlicensed church in Upper Egypt.

The Maspero Youth Union said in a statement on Tuesday that it had resorted to
the Boulaq police station to obtain a permit to protest on the anniversary of
the Maspero events as required by the controversial protest law.

The Interior Ministry, however, denied them the right to protest for "security
reasons."

"We are entirely convinced that the protest law restricts our right to protest.
..we were certain the security forces will deny us the permit," the union said.


"Not only did they reject the request, but they also threatened some of the
activists, which reflects how the Egyptian regime fears people taking to the
streets," the statement added.

The denied protest aimed to serve as a reminder of the tragic events, and to
renew calls for retribution.

The statement said it would appeal the decision at court, however the
anniversary would have passed before litigation procedures are over.

The widely criticised protest law was issued in November 2013 by then Interim
President Adly Mansour amid a tense political environment characterised by
recurrent protests.

Since its adoption, hundreds have been handed down prison sentences and hefty
fines for violating the law and protesting without obtaining prior approval from
the interior ministry.

Rights groups repeatedly condemned the law, describing it as an encroachment on
the right of assembly, and the freedom of expression.

Egypt's Supreme Constitutional Court (SCC) is currently considering the appeals
made against four articles of the law and is set to rule on one of those appeals
on December 3.

Article 73 of Egypt's constitution states that "citizens shall have the right to
organize public meetings, marches, demonstrations and all forms of peaceful
protests, without carrying arms of any kind, by serving a notification as
regulated by Law..The right to peaceful and private assembly is guaranteed
without need for prior notification. Security forces may not attend, monitor or
eavesdrop on such meetings."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              903 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Hearing on protests, access to education

BYLINE:  African News Agency

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words


JOHANNESBURG: The SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) will hold a three-day
hearing on the "Impact of Protest-Related Actions on the Right to Access a Basic
Education in South Africa" in Johannesburg from Monday.

"Two years ago, during protests in Malamulele in Limpopo, at least five schools
were set alight. The commission understands those schools have still not been
repaired," the SAHRC said.

In October 2014 protests over access to water erupted in Zeerust in North West.
During these protests children were barred from attending school, which
jeopardised exam preparations.

The North West also experienced protests in June 2013 and February 2015. In June
2016 protests in Majakaneng village resulted in the closure of schools. This
trend was prevalent across almost all provinces in the country.

Recently, more than 50 000 pupils were unable to attend school after violent
demarcation protests in the Vuwani district in Limpopo in April 2016 saw schools
in the area being torched.

"In excess of 20 schools were burnt in the protest action that followed the
Limpopo High Court ruling confirming the incorporation of Vuwani into the
Malamulele district (municipality)," noted the SAHRC.

"To date normal schooling has not resumed in full, raising serious concerns
about this significant number of children who may not be able to write their
examinations.

"The commission has observed and monitored the ongoing protests in the country,
some related to demarcation but most of them relating to service delivery.
Protests have become a mechanism for communities to raise their discontent about
lack of delivery of services by government."

Although these protests were an exercise of the right to protest, the central
issue was whether state responses during periods of civil conflict were adequate
to protect and secure the rights of children to access education.

The SAHRC said it was convening a national three-day hearing which would bring
together key stakeholders from the Education Department, the Co-operative
Governance and Traditional Affairs Department, SAPS, school principals,
community leaders and civil society.

They will assist in identifying policy, regulations and programmatic
interventions to secure children's education during periods of conflict.

"The hearings intend to highlight and explore the impact of protest on education
and to consider ways of protecting the right to basic |education."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              904 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Kazakhs to go ahead with 21 May protest despite land reform suspension

LENGTH: 468 words


Text of report by opposition Kazakh newspaper Respublika website on 10 May

Not all citizens of Kazakhstan believe promises that Nazarbayev give. A
moratorium on amendments to the Land Code declared by the president is
considered a ploy by people. Activists are planning to hold a protest on 21 May
to say no to the sale and lease of land to foreigners. Kazakhstan's authorities
are actively opposing their plans.

Some activists believed Nazarbayev and decided to be included into the
commission for explaining presidential decrees. They think that the moratorium
is a measure that is sufficient to stop protests. A protest planned to be held
in Almaty on 7 May was called off for this reason.

However, by far not all citizens believed Nazarbayev. A protest scheduled for 21
May remains on the agenda. The Kazakh authorities are taking all measures to
foil their plans. According to reports from the regions, authorities are
actively working with activists. They are using both intimidation and bribes to
force activists to drop the idea of holding a protest. Despite this, people in
the regions are ready to go to squares and take part in protests.

Activists in Atyrau [western Kazakhstan] submitted an application as a statement
of their intention to hold a protest on 21 May. The protest will be held in the
square near the Isatay-Makhambet monument.

"The application was submitted on 6 May and we want to support demands which
were put forward earlier: [Kazakh authorities] must not sell or lease out our
land to foreigners. I would like to ask authorities to stop persecuting and
intimidating citizens who are expressing their opinion about the land issue,"
Maks Bokayev, an activist from Atyrau, says.

Activists in another [western] Kazakh town, Uralsk, submitted an application to
hold a protest on 21 May.

"The moratorium is a temporary decision. We must protect and preserve the land
that we inherited from our ancestors and hand over to the next generations. We
have submitted an application in Uralsk. There has been no reply from the town
administration but we are preparing for the protest on 21 May, anyway," Janat
Yessentayev, a singer, songwriter and activist from West Kazakhstan Region,
says.

Groups of activists in some cities of Kazakhstan are refusing to get the
approval of the local authorities and they are planning to hold a protest
without submitting an application.

The situation in Almaty is not clear for the time being.

By the way, the nationwide protest in Kazakhstan will continue in the USA. A
protest against the sale of Kazakh land and in support of peaceful protests in
Kazakhstan will take place in San Francisco's Union Square. Kanat Ibragimov, a
famous artist, activist and one of the organizers of the protest, has said this.

Source: Respublika website, Almaty, in Russian 10 May 16

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              905 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                           January 21, 2016 Thursday

PIA privatization: Joint Action Committee, Air League hold separate protests

SECTION: Vol. 08 No. 21

LENGTH: 163  words


Joint Action Committee and Air League on Wednesday held separate protests
against the privatization of Pakistan International Airline (PIA).

Although the employees of PIA continue to protest against the privatization of
the national airline, Joint Action Committee and Air League CBA seemed to be at
poles apart today. Despite the ban on protests inside the premises of the head
office by the PIA administration, Joint Action Committee held a protest in front
of the head office today. The protest was attended by the representative of all
the associations of the employees, pilots and officers. The speakers said on
this occasion that privatization was an economic murder of the employees.

Joint Action Committee alleged that the government had attempted to sabotage the
protest and create a wedge among the employees through its supported CBA.

Speakers at the Air League CBA said while addressing the protest that the
privatization of the national airline will never be allowed.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              906 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 22, 2015 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Security stepped up as KZN march swells to 800

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words


Several hundred students protested at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN)
yesterday to demand an end to university fee hikes.

Initially a group of about 100 converged on the university's Westville campus
before marching through the campus and entering lecture halls to urge other
students to join them in their protest.

Gradually as the protesting students made their way across the campus, the crowd
of marchers grew to about 800.

As students joined the protests against fee hikes at universities across the
country, they danced and sang, closely watched by security guards.

The protests against fees hikes began last Wednesday at Wits University in
Joburg.

At UKZN, there were a few police officers to be seen, but their presence at the
campus was low key. A member of the student representative council, Bozise
Mchunu, told the protesters that only once students from the universities of
Cape Town and Wits decided to protest did the government take heed of the
grievances.

He said this was because those universities were predominantly white and that
the government had not reacted to the protests that started at UKZN because it
was a predominantly black university.

Mchunu said protests would continue until the university's vice-chancellor, Dr
Albert van Jaarsveld, met with students. "He is not taking us seriously because
we are black," Mchunu added.

A member of the South African Students Congress urged white and Indian students
to join in the protest because they too were affected by increasing fees. The
protest was largely peaceful and there were no reports of any incidents of
damage to property or violence.

Numerous protesters carried placards, some of which read "What is this freedom
you speak about?" and "We want free education now!"

UKZN spokesman Lesiba Seshoka said the university had no problem with peaceful
protests. However, he said yesterday's protest was technically illegal as the
university had obtained an interdict against protests.

The Durban High Court interdict was obtained last month in the wake of student
protests that saw students torch two buildings on campus.

"In a sense, that gathering is illegal. People can protest as long as they don't
damage buildings," he said.

On the 6 percent cap on fee hikes agreed on Monday, Seshoka said he couldn't
comment as there was no fee increase proposal at the university. UKZN's council
was due to meet next month to deliberate on fees, he added. - ANA

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              907 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday

MQM leads protests against Kh Asif's statement

LENGTH: 221  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) on Tuesday staged demonstrations and led protest
rallies in various cities including Karachi and its leaders demanded Federal
Defense Minister Khawaja Asif to apologize.

After it announced to lead protest rallies against Defense Minister's statement
at National Assembly, MQM began protest rallies in various cities.

The main protest rally took place outside Karachi press club in which a large
number of workers and supporters showed up.

Talking on the occasion, MQM leader Farooq Sattar said that Khawaja Asif has
inflicted a major wound at hearts of Muhajirs, adding that Asif's statements are
prejudicial.

Haider Abbas Rizvi and Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui said that Khawaja Asif tried to
divide Muhajirs, adding that if innocent children are killed then the city will
be definitely shut down.

In Islamabad, MQM lawmakers staged a protest outside the press club and chanted
loud slogans against Federal Defense Minister.

In the demonstration that took place in Hyderabad, a large number of women and
children turned up to participate in the protest rally.

In Nawabshah, a protest rally was led from zonal office to press club while a
demonstration took place outside the press club in Larkana as well.

In Multan, a large number of workers participated in the demonstration outside
the Multan press club.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              908 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Mian Iftikhar says first phase of protest concludes successfully

SECTION: Vol. 20 No. 161

LENGTH: 136  words


President of Tripartite alliance and General Secretary of Awami National Party
(ANP) Mian Iftikhar Hussain said on Wednesday that the first phase of protests
against rigging has been completed successfully.

He said that next phase of the protest will begin on 16 June.

Talking to a press conference at Bacha Khan Center here, ANP leader Iftikhar
Hussain thanked party workers over the conclusion of Wednesdays protest. He also
tendered apology over any inconvenience the protests might have caused.

Announcing plans for the future, Iftikhar Hussain said that the next phase of
protests would begin on June 16 adding that protests would continue till Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa (KP) government resigns and installs an interim government to
re-hold elections.

He also rejected the All Parties Conference (APC) called by KP government.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              910 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                getreading.co.uk

                        March 2, 2015 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

Burghfield atomic bomb factory protest;
Police out in force in Reading Road as protest is due to begin at 7am

BYLINE: By Linda Fort

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 251 words


Police are out in force in Burghfield this morning to deal with a proposed
lock-down protest by Action Atomic Weapons Eradication (AAWE).

The demonstration designed to block the road to the bomb factory in Burghfield
is due to start at 7am.

It is part of a three-year-long campaign of protest activity which began in 2013
by groups under the AAWE banner, focussed around the Atomic Weapons
Establishment sites in Aldermaston and Burghfield.

Supt Jim Weems, silver police commander for the operation, said: "Thames Valley
Police will be working closely with its partners at West Berkshire Council, the
Atomic Weapons Establishment, Hampshire Constabulary and Ministry of Defence
Police to minimise the impact of the protest on the local communities and fulfil
our legal responsibility to facilitate peaceful protest.

"We respect everyone's right to protest in this way. However, should activity go
beyond peaceful those breaking the law will be dealt with proportionately.

"Measures are in place to notify local residents and those that might possibly
be affected by protests of any planned or unplanned activity and our aim is to
ensure that there is minimal disruption caused to local residents and the wider
community of West Berkshire and the surrounding areas whilst facilitating
protest."

A Twitter account has been set up to provide information to the public around
protest activity and any possible impacts this might be having on transportation
links.

To follow this account on Twitter, go to @WBprotestinfo

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBREAD


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              911 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            January 3, 2015 Saturday

Democracy Index: 98 workers' protests in December

BYLINE: Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 414  words


Workers staged 98 protests in December increasing the total number of
demonstrations staged during the fourth quarter of 2014 to 302, with an average
of 100 protests monthly and three protests daily.



A report issued on Saturday by Democracy Index, affiliated with the Cairo-based
organization the International Development Center (IDC), said that workers of
factories and companies represented the largest demographic of protesters with
24 protests in December; followed by education-sector workers with 14 protests;
the medical sector with 13 protests; and Agriculture Ministry workers,
journalists and drivers with five protests each.

Bread distribution workers and those working in universities and dormitories
staged four protests each; bakery owners staged three protests; while company
owners, bazaar renters, security sector workers, Justice Ministry experts and
those working in courts staged two protests each.

Protesting had many forms in December with vigils rating as the most common.
After vigils, strikes, demos, sit-ins and hunger strikes were the most common
form; workers also filed complaints, memorandums and requests. Teachers also
abstained from administering exams as a method to pressure officials to fulfill
their demands.

The most prominent demand coming from protests were financial requirements,
followed by the demand for permanent contracts for workers.

The report highlighted the financial crisis of the Egyptian Iron and Steel
Company, whose losses are estimated at LE1.3 billion with around 12,000 workers
having staged sit-ins. Also highlighted was Samanoud hyrax that referred 473
workers to retirement without getting appropriate bonuses, and the privatization
of BiscoMisr, despite achieving high profits last year.

The report accused the cabinet, led by Prime Minister Ibrahim Mehleb, of
destroying national industries.

Cairo had the highest number of protests staged in December out of the
provinces, reaching 31, followed by Alexandria (9); Gharbiya (7); Kafr al-Sheikh
(6); Sharqiya (6); Giza (5); Suez (4); Beheira (4); Menoufia, Port Said, Assiut
and Minya (3 each); New Valley, Red Sea, Qena and Damietta (2 each); and South
Sinai, Daqahliya, Aswan, Sohag and Ismailia came in last place with one protest
each.

18 workers of Bibliotheca Alexandrina were referred to trial over protesting in
October 2011. 60 teachers in Qena were referred to investigations for refraining
to administer exams, as they were protesting not disbursing their financial
dues.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              912 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Civil society protests storming of PTV building

LENGTH: 282  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Sept. 4 -- Members of the civil society on Tuesday gathered in front
of the National Press Club (NPC) to record their protest against the storming of
Pakistan Television (PTV) building by the workers of the Pakistan Awami Tehreek
(PAT) and Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) on Monday.

The protesters not only damaged furniture and television equipment but forced
the staff to take PTV News and PTV World off the air.

Also read: PTI, PAT protesters storm PTV headquarters

Protesters also took away rare pictures, food items from canteen and even the
sound system from the building's mosque.

The protest at NPC was organised by 'Students for Democracy', a social media
group.

Protesters were of the view that participants of the sit-ins had no right to
enter the state buildings. They were carrying placards inscribed with slogans in
favour of peaceful protests.

Imaan Hazir Mazari, the daughter of Shireen Mazari, while talking to media said
that every one had the right to hold protest but it should be peaceful.

"Those who entered the building have violated the rules because they were not
allowed to enter the state buildings," she said.

"It is our duty to strengthen the Parliament and not to attack it. I am not in
favour of violent protests," she said.

Replying to a question, she said her mother had no objection to her
participating in the protest. Mohammad Bin Majid, another participant of the
demonstration, said it was a matter of concern that violence had overcome
peaceful protests

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              913 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 15, 2014 Friday

Radio Tehran slams BBC World Service over coverage of Gaza conflict

LENGTH: 340 words


According to reports, on 15 August Iranians are to hold "anti-Zionist" protests
in several Iranian provinces after the Friday prayers to voice solidarity with
the people of Gaza.

As part of its regular programming prior to the protests, the presenter at
Tehran Radio read a commentary about BBC Persian, criticising it for not
reporting the anti-Israeli protests and accusing BBC Persian employees of
misconduct.

The following is the text of the Tehran Radio statement: "The BBC World Service
- in an example of its excess professionalism and honesty - censors reports
about global protests against warmongers and the baby-killer Zionist regime with
ease and without shame.

"We recommend that the BBC staff should report the opposite of whatever is
happening in the Zionist regime because that is less shameful than censoring the
truth.

"For example, if there was a protest against the Zionist regime, the BBC should
say that a protest was held in favour of the Zionist regime. This way, when
someone hears and sees the report, he or she will say that perhaps the BBC
reporter misheard the slogans. But if they censor it, people will say that the
BBC did not see the report because it was angry.

"Of course, I think the managers of the BBC [Persian], such as Sadeq Saba, are
so busy with some side-line issues that they are blind to many truths. For
example, Mr Saba is still busy bothering Ms Puneh Qoddusi, the BBC Persian
presenter. What should the poor guy do? His mind is somewhere else - sometimes
he forgets or does not understand or does not know that millions of people are
taking to the streets in Iran to chant slogans against the baby-killer Zionist
regime.

"Of course we need to be a little pragmatic in order to understand the state of
the managers at the BBC in particular; the poor people have to go to court every
day to answer questions about the rape allegations against them and their
presenters. Well, these people are busy."

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran - local radio service, Tehran, in
Persian 0618gmt 15 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              914 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                              June 23, 2014 Monday

Attracting attention: Teachers call off protest again citing poor security

LENGTH: 518  words


The Punjab Teachers' Union (PTU) on Monday postponed its protest  scheduled to
take place in front of the Punjab Assembly Tuesday (today)  in the wake of a
protest call given earlier by the Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT).

The PTU said the protest against compulsory retirement of the union's president
and penalisation of several of its members had been delayed till June 26 owing
to the security situation in the city.

The union made the announcement after a meeting on Monday.

On Sunday, PTU President Syed Sajjad Akbar Kazmi had communicated his
reservations to The Express Tribune regarding arranging the protest
demonstration on Tuesday amidst the PAT's call for a rally on The Mall.

A PTU statement on Sunday said that the protest would go on as per schedule
however it retracted the decision on Monday.

This is the second time this month that the PTU has called off its protest
citing law and order situation. It had earlier planned a protest demonstration
in front of the Education Complex on June 18.

The union had decided to rally on The Mall and organise a protest camp in front
of the provincial assembly.

PTU General Secretary Rana Liaquat Ali Khan confirmed that the protest campaign
had been put off.

"The security situation is not conducive to holding a demonstration. There is no
point in adding fuel to the fire," Khan said. "We stand by our demands. We will
arrange a protest rally later."

Khan is one of the union members who have been relieved from their duties as
teacher last week.

His service at Government Islamia High School, Multan Road, where he taught, was
terminated and handed over to the EDO for posting elsewhere. The reason cited
for this was his "undesirable activities".

He is yet to be assigned another school. The union claims that this is part of
the government's drive to victimise PTU office-bearers.

Earlier, Kazmi, the PTU president, had been handed a compulsory retirement
notice and 15 members were handed similar orders by education authorities in the
province.

"We were aware of the consequences when we set out to demand our rights this is
something we had been told through various channels as well," Khan said.

Sources in the PTU said that the decision to postpone the protest campaign had
been taken to prevent the authorities' attention being diverted towards a "more
pressing political" issue than the teachers' protest.

"Besides security threats, the PTU officials were concerned about the PAT rally.
They thought the protest by Qadri's supporters might steal the limelight on June
24."

The protest has now been rescheduled for June 26 in front of the Punjab
Assembly. Hundreds of PTU officials from Lahore are expected to stage a sit in,
they said.

PTU office-bearers say they will sign a letter carrying their demands in blood
and send it to Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif.

Education Minister Rana Mashhood Ahmad Khan had formed a four-member committee
in April to address issues pertaining to teachers in the Punjab.

Kazmi was also a member of the committee. The committee met on April 21 and had
not held another meeting since.

Published in The Express Tribune, June 24th, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              915 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 10, 2014 Friday

African migrants in Israel vow to continue anti-imprisonment protests, strike

LENGTH: 376 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 9 January

[Report by Ben Hartman: "After week of protests, migrant community vows to push
on next week"]

After a week-long strike and days of protests in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem the
African migrant community has vowed to continue pushing, saying that they don't
believe the end of the protests is in sight. Eritrean Kidane Isaac, who has long
taken part protests and activism in the migrant community, said that while they
don't know what the next step will be, they plan to keep striking indefinitely.
He said that people aren't worried that they won't have jobs waiting for them to
come back to when the strike is over, saying "we aren't thinking about this at
the moment. We believe that so far the protests have been a success and we
expect things to change on the ground." On Thursday morning [9 January],
thousands of African migrants again gathered in south Tel Aviv's Lewinsky Park
to discuss what the next step in the protests is.

Isaac said he still doesn't know what they'll do next, but said there are plans
to hold a march of women and children from the migrant community outside of
Interior Minister Gideon Sa'ar's house in Tel Aviv on Saturday night.

Orit Marom of Assaf, an NGO that assists African migrants and has helped support
the protests, said she too doesn't know what next week will hold for the
protests, saying she's just waiting to hear from the activists from the migrant
community.

She said that personally she'll be going to the Knesset on Tuesday where her
organization and others have been invited to testify to the Interior Committee
about the source of funding for the protests. "We have nothing to hide, its
fine. We can barely pay our own salaries anyway." When asked if the protests
have been a success, she said "of course, these protests reached every household
in Israel. The big problem with this issue was that people weren't familiar with
it, now, no one can say that".

The protesters have focused on two main demands - that the state stop jailing
migrants based on the anti-infiltration amendment, and that they begin
comprehensively examining their asylum requests.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 9 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              916 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Journalists fired over protests;
TURKEY

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 137 words


At least 22 journalists have been fired and 37 forced to quit over their
coverage of the Gezi Park protests, the Turkish Journalists Union (TGS) has
claimed.

The Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman quoted Gökhan Durmu of the TGS saying that
the job losses came as a result of media coverage of the protests. They started
in late May with a small group of environmentalists staging a protest against a
commercial development in Istanbul, and grew into nationwide demonstrations in
which thousands expressed anti-government sentiments. The protests in Istanbul
were met with tear gas and water cannons.

"These dismissals and resignations are mostly related to censorship policies
followed by some media outlets," the TGS said. "Our colleagues worked hard for
the public's right to be informed, and they paid for it with their jobs".

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              917 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                             March 17, 2013 Sunday

MMM's new protest calendar

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, March 17 -- Mutahida Majlis Mashawarat (MMM) today issued a fresh
protest calendar, according to which a general strike will be observed on March
20 (Wednesday)

MMM, a joint platform of various separatist organizations, has been issuing
protest calendar in support of the demand for the return of mortal remains of
Mohammad Afzal Guru and Mohammad Maqbool Butt. Guru was hanged in Tihar jail on
February 9 this year and his body was buried in the jail premises. Butt was
hanged in same jail on February 11, 1984 and his body was also buried there.

Today all the constituents of MMM met and issued a fresh week long protest
calendar. The MMM revised its calendar in view of "Pakistan Day".

In a statement MMM stated that it is not any independent political party but an
amalgam of Hurriyat (G), Hurriyat (M), JKLF, Dakhtaran-e- Millat, Bar
Association and Jamaat-e-Islami.

"In the MMM meetings representatives from all the parties and amalgams put
forward their views and then after a thorough discussion protest calendar are
issued," reads the statement.

As per the fresh protest calendar, a general strike will be observed on March
20. MMM has called for evening protests on March 18. Students have been asked to
protest in colleges and universities on March 19 and also hold joint afternoon
prayers on that day.

"On March 21, a blackout will be observed for evening hours. On March 22,
resolutions should be passed in Masjids to seek people's endorsement for MMM
protests. March 23 human rights activists and civil societies are asked to
protest at Jantar Mantar Delhi on March 24(Sunday) resume routine work, no
protest," the statement stated.

MMM has made it clear in their press statement that all the protest should
remain peaceful. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              918 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             March 12, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan: Protests held across Pakistan against Badami Bagh violence

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, March 12 -- A nationwide protest was staged by the Christian community
on Sunday against Badami Bagh violence.

Hundreds of Christians took to the street in Lahore and chanted slogans against
the Punjab government for its failure to protect minorities.

Protestors blocked Ferozpur Road for traffic. Police resorted to aerial firing
and lathi-charge to disperse the protestors.

In Faisalabad, members of the minority community took out a protest rally from
Katchehri Bazaar to Press Club.

Local Islamic clerics also attended the protest demonstration.

Protests were also reported in Mandi Bahaudin and Gujranwala.

In Sindh, Christian communities held protest demonstrations in Karachi and
Sukkur Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              919 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday

Flags Crisis - DUP's Patterson vows to protest with constituents

BYLINE: Bimpe Archer, b.archer@irishnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words


A DUP councillor has vowed to stand alongside her constituents for as long as
they wish to mount protests, despite party leader Peter Robinson's appeal for an
"absence" of street protests.

The first minister and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness released a joint
statement saying that "an absence of street protests would provide the space to
allow us all to work together to find an agreed solution".

South Belfast representative Ruth Patterson demonstrated with constituents in
the Village area.

DUP assembly members Christopher Stalford and Ian McCrea were also pictured at
Monday evening's protests.

Ms Patterson said neither Mr Robinson nor the rest of her party's leadership had
called on the protests to end and she accused others of "spinning" his words.

"I have yet to receive anything like that," she said.

"Why would Peter Robinson want to stop peaceful protests?

"Last night's protest was very, very peaceful.

"It ended and everyone dispersed and went home.

"That's the way to carry out a peaceful protest.

"You have a time, you stick to it and you get your message across."

Ms Patterson praised community police officers who she said had dealt well with
the assembled crowd.

She suggested that "it's when the TSG (heavily armed Tactical Support Groups)
come in behind them and destroy a lot of work" that problems arose.

"I think in the coming days and coming weeks we need strong leadership, not only
from the assembly but we need it from elected representatives on the ground,"
she said.

"Your very presence there - the people are very thankful that they do see their
elected representatives at these protests.

"It gives them confidence, gives them reassurance.

"You can talk to the crowd and have an influence there, giving strong leadership
to the people that need it."

She said while she believed there should be no more protests until the new year,
she would be out again if her constituents chose to demonstrate.

"Peaceful protesting is what I'm all about," she said.

"I don't like riots. I don't like people getting hurt. There is no need for
that.

"I don't want to see young people ending up with criminal records."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              920 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Newtownabbey Times

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

Calls for calm ahead of Cloughfern protest

LENGTH: 315  words


UNIONIST politicians in the Macedon area have appealed to those planning a
protest at Cloughfern Corner to keep it peaceful.

Protesters objecting to the removal of the Union flag from Belfast City Hall
have been using social networking sites to call on people to gather at the busy
junction tomorrow evening (Friday) in support of the Union flag'.

Cloughfern Corner has been the scene of serious public disorder in the past, and
local political and community representatives are appealing for calm ahead of
tomorrow night's demonstration.

"If people want to protest then they are entitled to protest, but after what
happened in Carrickfergus last night I wouldn't be recommending for anyone to go
out onto the street because there is an element here who cannot be controlled,"
said UUP councillor John Scott.

"I don't know how these people (the rioters) can call themselves loyalists when
all they seem intent on doing is attacking the security forces, damaging
property and bringing shame to the loyalist cause and to the flag.

"If people feel strongly about this issue then by all means they are entitled to
protest, but they must go through the appropriate channels and do it in the
right way."

DUP alderman Billy DeCourcy described the City Hall flag issue as "very serious"
and said "the voice of the unionist people must be heard". But he stressed that
any protest must be properly organised and pass off peacefully.

"I'm all for people's right to protest," he told the Times. "But protests have
to be properly organised, there has to be proper leadership and people have to
take responsibility for their actions. Protest by all means, but do it
peacefully."

Police refused to comment on the planned protest and whether or not motorists
would be advised to avoid the area. However, a spokesperson stressed that the
event "will be monitored and all appropriate advice given and action taken."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNT


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              921 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   Our Times

                                October 10, 2012
                               our times Edition

Second service delivery protest disappointing

BYLINE: Nomampondo Plaatjie

SECTION: LABOUR

LENGTH: 261  words


THE less than 100 people who showed up to join the follow-up protest against
poor service delivery in Jeffreys Bay last week was a disappointment, organisers
said.


 This follows a successful mass protest to the Kouga Municipal offices last
month, where nearly 500 residents protested in a show of solidarity.
 The handful of protesters forged ahead with the protest despite a request from
the municipality to postpone it until next week.
 Jeffreys Bay Residents Association chairman, Paul Hjul said executive mayor
Booi Koerat's response on their memorandum of grievances was not good enough.
"They only attempted to answer our grievances," he told the crowd.
 Their grievances included the poor financial state of the municipality, the
poor state of the roads, power outages and the quality of water.
 Hjul confirmed he had received an e-mail from the municipality denying them
permission to protest on the chosen day.
 Hjul said municipal manager Sidney Fadi notified he would not be available to
address them before Friday.
 "We will continue to put pressure on the municipality," he said.
 After gathering on the municipal lawns with their placards, the crowd dispersed
peacefully.
 SMALL TURNOUT: Far fewer residents participated in a follow-up protest to the
municipal offices in Jeffreys Bay last week. The follow-up protest was held
after Kouga Executive Mayor Booi Koerat responded to grievances raised in
petitions during the first protest in September. The second protest was held to
demonstrate their unhappiness with Koerat's response Picture: NOMAMPONDO
PLAATJIE

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ot,so,ti,hr


                            Copyright 2012 Our Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              922 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 301

LENGTH: 253  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday. According to details, activists of
the Jesy Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM) Hyderabad Chapter led by Masroor Thebo, Zamir
Mehrani, Rehman Pirzado and others staged a protest demonstration for arrest of
the accused murderers of their party leader Mujahid Tunio. They also condemned
the Zulfikarabad Project.

The Mehshwari community people, residents of Maheshwari colony recorded a
protest demonstration against the occupation of the plot of their temple. The
sub-Inspector of the Market Committee Hyderabad Abdul Rauf Bhutto staged a
protest demonstration against the actions of the Administrator of the Market
Committee Hyderabad. He accused the Administrator of withholding his salaries
since past several months without any reason. He demanded of the concerned
authorities to take notice of the matter to save his family from starvation.

Members of the Communist Party of Pakistan under the leadership of Comrade Iqbal
and others staged a protest demonstration against the performance of the EOBI
officials. The members of the Hyderabad Artists' Action Committee under the
leadership of Shahid Iqbal, Sattar Pervez and others staged a protest
demonstration against the non provision of stipends to them since several
months. The Disabled Persons' Welfare Association recorded a protest
demonstration for the provision of jobs to the disabled persons according their
2% quota in the government jobs.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              923 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              June 3, 2012 Sunday

Social protests return to Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Haifa

BYLINE: BEN HARTMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 273 words


Some 5,000 people marched down Ibn Gvirol Street on Saturday night, in what
appeared to be the largest such protest in Tel Aviv since last summer.

The demonstrators had the same spirit and chants as last year - if not the
numbers - with calls of "The people want social justice" and "Take to the
streets, the country is crumbling" echoing through central Tel Aviv.

Dozens of protesters also brought pots and pans in solidarity with the ongoing
student protests in Montreal, providing the march with a migraine-inducing din.

When met with the Passover-style "How is this night different from other nights"
question, Stav Shafir, one of the leaders of last year's protests, said, "This
is the beginning of the summer.

"We are back here again en masse in the street, no matter how much they've tried
to take away our hope," she said.

Other protests were held in Jerusalem and Haifa, also under the banner: "All of
the country out in the streets - bringing back hope and justice."

Shafir addressed the recent unity government agreement signed between Kadima and
the ruling Likud Party, saying that public distaste for the deal helped bring
more people out to the streets.

The protest was marked by the absence of Daphni Leef, the young Tel Avivian
woman who set up a tent on Rothschild Boulevard last July 14 to protest high
rents, launching the J14 movement. On her Facebook page earlier on Saturday,
Leef said she could not attend because of a personal engagement. For some time,
Shafir has eclipsed her as the most prominent face of the protests.

A contingent of MKs and activists from the Meretz Party joined the march in Tel
Aviv on Saturday night.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ISRAELIS IN Tel Aviv last night call for 'hope and justice.'
(Credit: Ricardo Mallaco)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              924 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 227

LENGTH: 210  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, a woman namely Hasina, resident of Karachi staged a
protest demonstration against her husband namely Farooq for torturing her. She
demanded of the high-ups to take notice of the matter to provide her protection
and justice. The residents of Liaquat Colony including Kulsoom, Aijaz and others
recorded a protest demonstration against a mobile phone company (Zong) for
making an alleged fraud with them. The activists of Sindh United Party led by
Abdul Jabbar Bhutto and others protested against actions of the Badin Police for
arresting their party leader Sadam Sangrasi.

The employees of the Revenue Department led by Syed Sardar Shah, Syed Tajamul
Shah and others staged a protest demonstration for the provision of promotions
to them. The family members of the missing JSMM leader Murtaza Chandio including
Rasheeda Chandio, Sarang Chandio and others continued their protest
demonstration for his recovery. The residents of village Gul Muhammad Jakhro in
the jurisdiction of the Rahooki Police Station led by Zeenat Hajani recorded a
protest demonstration for arrest of the killers of a girl namely Soomal.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              925 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Corkman (Ireland)

                                November 3, 2011

Traffic stops as protest against bank bond payment hits the roads

SECTION:

LENGTH: 361 words


The Ballyhea bank bondholder bailout protest group escalated their
demonstrations this week in opposition to the payment of a $1bn Anglo Irish Bank
bond that was due this week.

The peaceful protest marched its usual route from Ballyhea's church to the main
road, where demonstrators proceeded to sit across the pedestrian crossing,
obstructing traffic. The protest subsequently moved on following a request from
Gardai who arrived on the scene.

Protest organiser Diarmuid O'flynn said he was delighted with Tuesday's turnout.

"We were not sure how many we would get to turn up, given it was mid-week and a
lot of people would have work or other commitments. About 40 people marched and
the majority of those took part in the sit down protest.

"I told all taking part that no one was obliged to take part in the sitdown
protest if it made them uncomfortable but to be fair most people wanted to do
it. We had people of all ages, including some venerable ladies who brought
camping chairs so that they were not sitting on the road," he said.

The group has held a protest march once a week for the last 35 weeks, recently
alternating the location of the marches between Ballyhea and neighbouring
Charleville. Mr O'flynn said the time was right to escalate protests given the
bond payment this week.

"We don't call it a bond payment, it's a heist. We, the Irish people are paying
a $1bn unsecured, unguaranteed bond to unknown financial institutions. It is
daylight robbery of the Irish people.

"While the whole country seems more aware of this one bond, they are largely
unaware of the 15 more bonds we will pay this year.

"We will pay EUR20bn in 2012, EUR17bn in 2013 and EUR25bn in 2014   that is
EUR62bn over the next three years. People need to ask themselves this: are our
financial institutions going to be in a position to pay these bonds themselves'
Of course not. They'll be back to us to look for it again," he said.

Mr O'flynn also revealed that economist Constantin Gurdgiev has been invited by
the group to speak in the area. Mr Gurdgiev, a regular commentator on TV3'S
Tonight with Vincent Browne, is expected to give a talk on the weekend of
December 17.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              926 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan: Protests break out in Punjab over power cuts

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Oct. 04 -- Protests broke out across Punjab on Sunday against
unscheduled and prolong electricity cuts, with demonstrators burning tires and
damaging public property.

According to reports, protests were reported in Lahore, Faisalabad, Gujranwala,
Sialkot, Multan and several other cities.

Pakistan Electricity Power Company (PEPCO) says the electricity shortfall has
mounted to 7, 000 megawatts.

In Lahore, hundreds of people took to the streets, chanting slogans against the
government for worsening power outages.

The protests continued throughout the day.

On Multan road, the police and the protestors clashed, turning the area into a
battleground. The protests also led to massive traffic jams.

Police fired teargas shells and resorted to lathi-charge to end the protest.

Situation was no different in Sialkot, where hundreds of protestors surrounded
PML-N leader Khawaja Asif and MPA Chaudhry Akhlaq. They were later rescued by
the police, who resorted to baton-charge to break the siege.

In Faisalabad, electricity deprived people staged fierce protests; ransacked
banks and public property.

A large number of furious people gathered at Chohang and staged a protest
against long power cuts.

The police opened fire and tear gas shelling to control the mob but situation
deteriorated further and people ransacked public property and damaged street
lights.

At the other side, hundreds of people gathered at Kachehri Bazar near District
Council's roundabout in Faisalabad city, burnt tires on roads causing traffic
mess.

"We are facing power outages over the last few days which has ruined our
businesses," one of the protestor said on the occasion.

Score of young men, bearing canes in their hands, damaged windowpanes of cars
and pelted stones on a traffic police office and moving vehicles

.

The angry protestors entered building of a bank and ransacked in its premises,
besides parked cars and ATM machine Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              927 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

BRIEF: Protest action to be held in front of Georgian parliament

BYLINE: N. Kirtskhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 134 words


Sept. 08--SEPT.8 / TREND, Georgia, Tbilisi -- The "White" youth wing,
"Iverielebi" Movement and "Georgian emigrants" will hold a protest action on
Sept.8. Political parties and NGOs will join the protest action.

As the "White" party told Trend, the protest action aims at protesting the
prosecution of peoples for political motives, obvious example of which is the
disappearance of the "Georgian emigrants" leader Zviad Kushitashvili.

"Five days have passed since he disappeared, and there is no information about
him. It is known that he has been repeatedly threatened and forced to abandon
the holding of protest actions in foreign countries," the "White" said.

___ (c)2011 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110908-1AZ-BRF-Protest
-action-to-be-held-in-front-of-Georgian-parliament-0908-20110908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011


                              928 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

75% of Israelis support protests, 51% support Netanyahu;
The poll for "Channel 10" found that Netanyahu's support is particularly strong
among the orthodox and Haredim (ultra orthodox).

BYLINE: Lilach Weissman

LENGTH: 266 words


Even though 75% of Israelis support the social protests currently sweeping the
country, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu still enjoys majority support,
according to a poll by "Maagar Mochot" for "Channel 10." Despite calls for
Netanyahu's resignation by protestors, the survey found that 51% of respondents
think that he is still the best person to be prime minister. Netanyahu's support
is particularly strong among the orthodox and Haredim (ultra orthodox).

Leader of the Opposition Tzipi Livni commanded only 29% support while the leader
of Israel Beitenu and Minister of Foreign Affairs Avigdor Liberman received 17%
support. Only 3% supported Livni's challenger in Kadima, Shaul Mofaz MK as
suitable for prime minister.

Prof. Yitzhak Katz who conducted the poll pointed out that Netanyahu won
majority support, in part, due to a lack of an attractive enough alternative.

The survey, which was carried out on Sunday, just after Saturday night's mass
protests, found that more than 33% of voters were "sitting on the fence." 37%
said the protests would cause them to change their vote in the next Knesset
elections, and 48% thought the protests would not influence their vote. 11% did
not know.

Among voters aged 18-30, 45% thought the protests would influence their vote,
while 39% said the protest would not influence them.

The poll also found that 75% of Israelis supported the protests, 14% opposed
them and 11% had yet to form an opinion on the matter.

Published by Globes, Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on August 1,
2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              929 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (Pakistan)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Altaf issues appeal to end 'peaceful protests'

LENGTH: 259 words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, July 15 -- Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Altaf Hussain Thursday
appealed to people across the country to stop 'peaceful protests' against
'biased and discriminatory' statement issued by Senior Minister of Sindh Dr.
Zulfiqar Mirza, Geo News reported.

According to a statement issued by MQM, the party Chief Altaf Hussain has made
an appeal in earnest to the people to suspend the 'peaceful protests' in view of
the critical situation prevalent in the country.

"The peaceful protests be stopped against the use of biased and discriminatory
language against the successors of the founders of Pakistan, he said."

Altaf said the 'Haq Parast' people throughout the country have registered their
protest against the use of uncalled for language 'against the successors of the
founders of Pakistan'. "Therefore, I earnestly appeal to the people to suspend
their protest and immediately go back to their homes," he added.

He said the Haq Parast people of Pakistan expressed their shock and grief and
demonstrated exemplary unity by registering protest against the 'discriminatory,
fascist and venomous language and attitude'. These Pakistanis deserve a glowing
tribute, he added.

Soon after the appeal issued by the MQM Altaf Hussain businesses and shops began
to reopen in various parts of the metropolis which throughout the day gave a
completely deserted look. Published by HT Syndication with permission from The
Statesman. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 MASHRIQ GROUP OF NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              930 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Sun (Yuma, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Do protests at funerals cross protective line?

BYLINE: The Sun, Yuma, Ariz.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 371 words


Jan. 13--It is unfortunate that a church group that spews hatred at funerals is
getting so much attention in the wake of the shootings in Tucson but it is
inevitable given the methods church members use.

The Kansas-based Westboro Baptist Church is most noted for protesting against
homosexuality at the services for military service members who have fallen in
action. Church members claim the deaths -- and those in Tucson Saturday -- are
signs that God hates the nation for tolerating homosexuals.

Their protests bring an inevitable outcry from those mourning their dead loved
ones and from members of the community seeking to protect them from the church
members.

The church's plans to protest at the funeral of a 9-year-old girl killed
Saturday brought a heightened level of outrage, so much so that the Legislature
passed an emergency law Tuesday prohibiting protests within 300 feet of a death
ceremony. It also spurred plans for a counter protest, led by a former Yuman,
against the church members to shield the families.

Now it is reported that the church members will abandon their Tucson protests in
return for time on state and national radio shows to spread their venom. They
said it would provide a bigger platform for the views. It also unfortunately may
set a precedent for the future.

Other states have tried to limit the protests as Arizona did Tuesday. The church
has challenged these limitations but there has yet to be a final resolution of
the issue in the courts.

This is a difficult issue for those who believe in free expression. The
Constitution protects peaceful protests, even if we believe the views expressed
are despicable.

Yet clearly these protests are particularly hurtful to families at their lowest
points. While it may not be physical violence against the families, it certainly
is psychological violence.

Is there a line here that is crossed? Ultimately the Supreme Court will decide.

To see more of The Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.yumasun.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Sun, Yuma, Ariz. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content
services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110113-YZ-EDITORIAL-Do-protests
-at-funerals-cross-protective-line-0113-20110113

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YZ


                             Copyright 2011 The Sun


                              931 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 11, 2010 Thursday

Indonesian police: Jakarta secured ahead of Obama visit, protests restricted

LENGTH: 516 words


Text of report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post
English-language website on 11 March

[Report by Indah Setiawati: "Police herald safer Jakarta ahead of Obama state
visit".]

The Jakarta Police say the capital is secure for the upcoming visit by the US
President Barack Obama, despite a slew of violent protests last week.

Obama is scheduled to be in the country from March 20 to 22.

"We'll increase our supervision across our jurisdiction," city police
intelligence unit head Sr. Comr. Irlan said Wednesday.

He added the public was still welcome to stage protests during Obama's visit,
but under greater restrictions on when and where the planned protests could be
held.

"For one thing, no protests can be held anywhere in the vicinity of Obama,"
Irlan said.

"This isn't special treatment, it's the standard operating procedure for all
state guests."

He added protesters would also not be allowed to stage rallies at key locations,
including in front of the State Palace.

He said the police would only permit protests that were related to Obama's visit
when the protest coordinators submitted a permit to the city police.

Since December, there have been three official protests against Obama's visit,
and 137 on various issues in just the first week of March.

The latest protest against Obama's visit came last Friday in Banten province,
when dozens of protesters calling themselves the improbably long-winded Campus
Islamic Proselytization Institute Coordinating Board rallied outside the Serang
Legislative Council.

There have been a total of 704 demonstrations in Jakarta this year.

Governor Fauzi Bowo said he would hold no special meeting with the central
government to discuss Obama's visit.

He added the capital city already had a procedure in place to welcome heads of
state.

He said Obama was scheduled to arrive at Halim Perdana Kusumah Air Base, visit
the State Palace, join a state dinner, discuss bilateral matters at the palace
and then visit the Kalibata Heroes' Cemetery in South Jakarta.

Fauzi said other items on the agenda, including a visit to his old elementary
school in Menteng, Central Jakarta, had not been confirmed.

He added the city had prepared for the school visit anyway, and had roped the
public order agency, the transportation agency, the education agency and the
Central Jakarta mayor into the deal.

In a Cabinet meeting last month, Coordinating Political, Legal and Security
Affairs Minister Djoko Suyanto said Obama would visit Borobudur Temple in
Central Java to "show his wife and two daughters Indonesia's cultural side".

The eighth-century Borobudur is one of Indonesia's seven UNESCO world heritage
sites.

The visit by Obama is being trumpeted as a return of sorts, given that the
president spent four years in Jakarta as a child.

Obama moved to Indonesia at the age of 6 with his mother, Ann Dunham, and
Indonesian stepfather, Lolo Soetoro.

He first attended the Fransiskus Asisi Catholic Elementary School, and later the
Besuki State Elementary School.

He left the country at age 10.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 11 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              932 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                              March 1, 2010 Monday

No protest over protest

LENGTH: 327  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, March 1 -- The British High Commission in Colombo has not lodged a
complaint with the Sri Lankan government over a protest staged in front of the
embassy this morning despite a well known government ally participating in the
demonstration.

Foreign Ministry sources told Daily Mirror Online that they had not received any
communication from the British High Commission or the party involved in staging
the protest and therefore the government too would not respond or comment.

"This is purely a private protest and has nothing to do with the government. We
have also not received any complaints," a source at the Ministry said.

Foreign Minister Rohita Bogollagama also confirmed that he had not been informed
of the protest and if any party lodged a complaint, then he would respond
accordingly.

National Freedom Front (NFF) Leader Wimal Weerawansa participated in the protest
in front of the High Commission this morning against British Foreign Secretary
David Miliband attending the Global Tamil Forum in London last week. British
Prime Minister Gordon Brown had also later met with the delegates of the Forum.

At the protest, large cut out's of the British Prime Minister and Miliband were
seen pasted across the walls with both of them dressed in LTTE outfits.

However when contacted and questioned if a complaint would be lodged against the
protest and the large cut out's portraying Miliband and Brown as LTTE cadres,
Spokesperson at the British High Commission Dominic Williams said that Britain
would not make an official comment.

The Sri Lankan government last week also protested vehemently stating that it
was unethical of British senior government members attending such pro LTTE
events and had also summoned the Acting British High Commissioner in Colombo
over the issue. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror
Sri Lanka. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                      Copyright 2010 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              933 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Facts on File World News Digest

                                February 5, 2009

Russia;
Sagging Economy Spurs Protests

SECTION: Pg. 69C1

LENGTH: 489 words


Antigovernment protests January 31-February 1 took place across Russia, in a
signal that unease among citizens was growing amid a global economic downturn
that had drained Russia's cash reserves and crippled the ruble, Russia's
currency. The country had previously enjoyed a decade of economic growth
resulting largely from high oil prices, which had since fallen. Protesters at
both approved and unapproved rallies called for a variety of actions, ranging
from the resignations of President Dmitri Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin, to the rejection of Western-style free-market economics in favor of broad
nationalizations. [See 2009 Europe: Russia-Ukraine Gas Standoff Ends; Other
Developments; 2008 Russia: News in Brief]

The Russian authorities took the unusual step of officially allowing several
opposition protests in central Moscow, the capital, a move that observers saw as
an apparent concession to increasing public discontent. Antigovernment protests,
when approved, were often relegated to inconvenient or isolated locations.

Among the approved demonstrations was a January 31 Moscow rally organized by the
Communist Party, which reportedly drew about 1,000 people. The same day, a
pro-government rally in Moscow reportedly attracted as many as 8,000 people. A
peaceful, antigovernment demonstration of about 2,500 also took place in the far
eastern city of Vladivostok, where riot police had violently dispersed a similar
protest in December 2008. A number of other protests took place in Moscow and
elsewhere in Russia.

Unapproved protests also took place in Moscow. A police spokesman January 31
said 41 protesters were detained that day. Reportedly among the detained were
Eduard Limonov, leader of the banned National Bolshevik Party, and chess
grandmaster and Other Russia party leader Garry Kasparov.

Among protesters' grievances were the declining ruble, rising unemployment and
commodity prices, the recent murders of several rights activists and dissidents,
and a new tax on foreign vehicles. [See 2009 Austria: Police Detain Seven Over
Chechen's Murder; 2009 Russia: Human Rights Lawyer, Journalist Shot Dead; Other
Developments]

Ruble Hits 11-Year Low

 The ruble February 2 hit its lowest value in 11 years as it approached a
benchmark Russian officials had said they would not let it fall below. The
central bank January 22 had said it would defend the ruble from falling below a
value of 41 rubles to a basket composed of the U.S. dollar and the euro, the
European Union's common currency. The ruble February 2 had hit 40.79 to the
dollar-euro basket, before rising slightly in value. [See 2008 Russia: Ruble
Steadily Devalued; Other Development]

Fitch Ratings, a credit-rating agency owned by France's Fimilac SA, February 4
downgraded Russia's credit outlook to BBB, from BBB plus. A BBB rating was two
grades above "junk" level. [See 2008 Russia: Ruble Steadily Devalued; Other
Development]

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Facts on File, Inc.


                              934 of 995 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                National Edition

77 requests for protests, 0 approved by Chinese

BYLINE: Aileen McCabe, Canwest News Service, with files from Allen Panzeri

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 380  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING - The Chinese had 77 requests to protest during the Olympics, but all
but two have been dismissed so far.

The two applications still under consideration by the Chinese are on hold,
pending "more information of the eligible participants" and "adequate papers as
required," according to the official news agency Xinhua.

It quoted an unnamed spokesperson at the Beijing Public Security Office saying
one application was vetoed because "it is in violation of China's law on
demonstrations and protests."

The other 74 applications to demonstrate in the three officially sanctioned
protest parks were withdrawn.

The reasons were "because the problems those applicants contended for were
properly addressed by relevant authorities or departments through
consultations," the report said.

Security officials said 149 people, including three foreigners, submitted
applications to protest.

Despite persistent inquiries since the Olympic Games opened 11 days ago, these
are the first details Chinese authorities have revealed about the protest parks.
Some of them fly in the face of what journalists and human rights groups have
uncovered independently.

For instance, several cases of Chinese citizens being forcibly prevented from
filing applications to protest have been widely reported. As well, there are
documented cases of applicants being taken away by police and presumably jailed.

The only demonstrations so far during the Games have been a handful of
theatrical protests staged by Students for a Free Tibet, and all of the
participants, including several Canadians, have been deported.

Questions about the empty protest zones have been raised repeatedly at the
regular Olympic media briefings, but neither the Beijing organizing committee
nor the International Olympic Committee have been able or willing to answer
them.

The numbers may confirm suspicions by the New Yorkbased Human Rights Watch and
others that the protest zones are a sham.

Canadian Phelim Kine, a Hong Kong-based researcher for HRW, charged the "protest
zones" are in fact "a cynical exercise by the Chinese government to appear to be
meeting the standards of previous Olympic cities ... while in fact the
authorities are actively undermining those rights to ensure a veneer of
'stability and harmony' during the Games."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              935 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 1, 2006 Friday

Iran radio say Lebanese people start march towards Beirut

LENGTH: 323 words


Text of report by Iranian radio on 1 December

Upon the calls of various opposition religious and political groups and
individuals, the people of Lebanon will hold a mass protests and call for the
establishment of a national unity government today. My colleague Mr Shakuri
reports from Beirut:

[Shakuri] Groups of people from other Lebanese cities started their march
towards the capital from the early hours of today. After the opposition groups
announced their plans to protest and following the message of the Hezbollah
leader Seyyed Hasan Nasrallah, the waves of people, groups and individuals
announced their support for the unlimited protests.

The Lebanese military has also been stationed in major cities and the routes
leading to Beirut, and is tightening security so that the protests would be held
in the best way possible.

Those who have called for the protests have asked the people not to carry
political flags or pictures of personalities and to carry only the Lebanese flag
while chanting nationalist slogans.

In his first reaction to the call for protests, the Lebanese Prime Minister
Fu'ad al-Sanyurah said his cabinet was legal and that it would stand against
popular protests. He said only a majority of votes at the Lebanese parliament
can suspend the cabinet.

Diplomatic moves continue in Beirut while the people have announced their plans
for the unlimited protest in the city.

Apart from the ambassadors of neighbouring and Western countries, the British
foreign secretary and the French presidential candidate Segolene Royale are
holding talks with Lebanese officials.

The opposition parties have underlined that the protests will be unlimited and
that they plan to continue their protests until a national unity government is
created - a government that will, on top of its agenda, amend the election law
and hold early parliament elections.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, in Persian 0430 gmt 1 Dec
06

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              936 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 19, 2002, Saturday

FARMERS STEP UP BEEF ROW;
 NEW ROUND OF PLANT PROTESTS TO BE HELD

BYLINE: David Mccoy

SECTION: FARMING LIFE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 315 words


IRISH farmers were "fiercely determined" to succeed in the cattle price campaign
and protest at the factories would be escalated significantly next week, one of
their leaders' has said.

In a major intensification of the protest for next week, Irish Farmers'
Association president, John Dillon, said farmers would protest at five key meat
plants for three days.

He said protests would commence on Tuesday at 7pm and conclude on Friday
afternoon. The protests will be at AIBP Cahir, AIBP Nenagh, Dawn Meats,
Grannagh, Co Waterford, Dawn Meats, Ballaghadereen, Co Roscommon and Kepak,
Clonee, Co Meath.

Mr Dillon said the strong farmer protest were succeeding and had resulted in
prices being maintained over the last four weeks.

He said this was particularly significant in view of the admission from the
chairman of the IMA last week that the factories were intent on pulling prices
further but had been halted by the farmer protests.

The IFA president said that, over the last four weeks the protests had succeeded
in holding more than EUR40 (pounds 25) per animal or EUR6 million (pounds 3m) in
total in farmers' pockets as opposed to factory pockets in terms of maintaining
prices.

Mr Dillon said the number of under 30 month cattle as now tightening and Bord
Bia was predicting between 4,000 and 5,000 less cattle per week between now and
year-end compared to last year.

He said with market returns remaining very strong and set to rise in November
and tighter supplies, factories will be forced to pay higher prices.

The IFA President dismissed the continuing advertisements from the IMA as more
misleading drip feed negative propaganda which nobody believed.

He said: "The IMA campaign has no credibility. The IFA has outlined the
independently verified facts on market returns and cattle prices and nobody is
in a position to contradict them."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited


                              937 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

RAW hires 'fake crowd' to stage anti-Pakistan protest

LENGTH: 286  words


The Indian intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) was behind the
recent protests held against Pakistan in Geneva, which self-exiled Baloch leader
Brahamdagh Bugti led, a private TV channel said on Tuesday.The Indian media used
the Bugti-led protest to hoodwink the people of India in an effort to divert
attention from the atrocities being carried out by the Indian army in occupied
KashmirThe channel produced evidence that Indian intelligence brought paid
demonstrators" from a refugee camp to the protests led by Bugti and Mehran
MurriThe protesters were nationals of countries from Far East Asia and Africa
and didn't even look close to people of Balochistan in appearance.

"He said usually the refugees are paid 100-150 francs to take part in protests
called Silent Solidarity Protests.The demonstrators chose to remain silent in
these protests as they could not speak foreign languages.

As for the Burqa-clad participants of the so-called Baloch protest in
Switzerland, the news channel said they were members of an obscure Women Rights
Organisation, who had nothing to do with reality.Brahamdagh has gone so far
against Pakistan as to seek political asylum in India, while the Indian
intelligence and media have used him for their purpose of diverting attention
from human rights violations in KashmirMehran Murri, another Baloch separatist
leader whose brother Changaiz Murri is a cabinet member in Balochistan, has also
led fake protests but is unwilling to seek asylum in IndiaBoth the Baloch
separatist leaders' ties with Indian intelligence have elicited strong dislike
for them back in Balochistan.

People of Balochistan have denounced both the leaders for their ties with Indian
intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              938 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday

Tribesmen protest against India's war rhetoric

BYLINE: Abuzar Afridi / Mehdi Hussain

LENGTH: 240  words


Scores of tribesmen staged protests in Landikotal and Parachinar against India's
constant war mongering against Pakistan.

The protesters chanted 'Pakistan Zindabad' slogans and warned New Delhi of
repercussions if there's any sort of Indian adventurism.

Scores of people from different parts of the agency attended the protest.

The protest was led by former members of National Assembly Allama Noorul Haq
Qadri, Malik Waris Khan, Malik Marjan, Malik Darya Khan, Malik Abdul Manan,
Malik Abdur Razaq, Malik Salahuddin and Malik Sultan.

They also asked for the extending in tenure of General Raheel Sharif as they
believe that it was in his tenure peace and stability was restored in the
agency. During the protest tribesmen were holding banners and placards inscribed
with anti-India slogans.

While addressing the protest the tribal elders reiterated that they would fight
alongside the Pakistan Army in case there was any aggression by India. They
vowed that they were ready to sacrifice their lives like they did in 1965.

Malik Waris Khan criticised India for imposing a curfew in Kashmir since last
three months and killing innocent Kashmiris. He demanded that the international
community should take notice of the Indian brutalities.

Noorul Haq Qadri said "Without any proof, New  has put allegations on Pakistan
over the Uri attack." He added that it was an attempt to divert attention from
atrocities being committed in Indian occupied Kashmir.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              939 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            April 14, 2016 Thursday

Muslim Brotherhood intends to join Friday protests

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 245 words


The outlawed Muslim Brotherhood announced Thursday that it intends to
participate in Friday protests against the recent Egyptian-Saudi maritime
demarcation.

The Egyptian cabinet issued a decision last Saturday that transferred Egypt's
sovereign control of Tiran and Sanafir Islands to Saudi Arabia. Politicians and
members of the public criticised the government for the decision. Public outrage
promoted President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi to to warn against the public, in
particular social media users, discussing the issue once again, in a televised
speech Wednesday.

In the statement, the Muslim Brotherhood stated Sisi "sells everything to
preserve his presidential seat."

"Now is the time for all is us to unite and work together to save Egypt," reads
the Brotherhood's statement. "Let the next Friday protests be a spark for the
new wave of anger to free Egypt."

Several Facebook events have been launched calling for protest in Egypt's
squares over the past week following the Egytpian-Saudi decision.

Following the ouster of Muslim Brotherhood regime in 2013, public protest has
been restricted. Security forces have made dozens of arrests to supress any
fledging protest. In November 2013, the interim cabinet issued the controversial
Protest Law. Under the law, citizens must submit an application to protest to
the Ministry of Interior. Any protest that does not adhere to this procedure and
does not receive the ministry' approval, will be considered an illegal assembly.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2016 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              940 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Aoun protests ill-timed: security source

LENGTH: 170 words


Anti-government protests planned by the Free Patriotic Movement would be
"ill-timed" as they would distract Lebanese security agencies already facing a
myriad of challenges posed by terrorism and local tensions, a security source
said Wednesday.

BEIRUT: Anti-government protests planned by the Free Patriotic Movement would be
"ill-timed" as they would distract Lebanese security agencies already facing a
myriad of challenges posed by terrorism and local tensions, a security source
said Wednesday.

"We are already overstretched," the source told The Daily Star, adding that
security bodies were working on several fronts, including combating terrorism,
protecting the borders and controlling local tensions.

"The last thing we need is the distraction of looking after a protest here or a
protest there," the source said.

The source maintained that the situation was fragile, adding that some people
"from lunatics, to anti-Aoun individuals and terrorists might try to attack one
of these processions, causing a catastrophe."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              941 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday

HESCO Mirpurkhas employees protest against privatization

SECTION: Vol. 20 No. 62

LENGTH: 241  words


Tool down strike was observed by employees of HESCO Mirpurkhas division and
protest rally and sit in was staged here on Tuesday to protest against
privatization of Wapda by government.

Led by divisional chairman Pakistan Wapda Hydro electric workers union
Mirpurkhas division Akbar Khan Leghari and vice chairman Malik Abdul Kareem,
about 300 employees of HESCO carrying banners and placards took out protest
rally from HESCO Mirpurkhas division office while in morning officials closed
the all offices of HESCO and observed tool down strike. Protesters marched
through main roads and arrived at local press club where they also staged
protest sit in. They strongly condemned the government for its plan to privatize
the Wapda. They warned that their protest campaign will remained continue till
three days, while they announced to further holding protest demonstration, rally
and sit in for next two days. They raised slogans against the government and
alleged that privatization was being made on the directives of IMF. Those spoke
the protesters Akbar Khan Leghari, Mohammad Yousuf Soomro, Malik Abdul Kareem,
Shahid Kazmi, Mohammad Iqbal Lodhi, Mohammad Siddique Dhonkai, Mohammad Shareef,
Akram Gujjar, Liaqat Kaim Khani, Sikandar Ali Maher , Mohammad Aslam and Alam
Kaim Khani. Owing to tool down strike and closure of the HESCO offices,
consumers faced hardships for correction of their excess reading bills and
solutions of their problems.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              943 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

Altaf appeals to protesting parties to defer protests in view of floods

SECTION: Vol. 19 No. 249

LENGTH: 240  words


Chief of Muttahida Qaumi Movement Altaf Hussain has appealed to the protesting
parties to defer their protests considering the current situation of the country
and difficulties faced by victims of floods.

In a statement issued here Monday, he said "if I had been among the protestors
and leading a protest movement  I would have deferred my protest keeping in view
the critical and heart-rending situation caused by torrential rains and flood. I
would have formed teams and sent them to the affected areas to help the people."

"It is wrong to stage music events in the protest demonstrations considering the
current situation of the country. It is against my conscience and tolerance. I
appeal to the religious and political parties that are staging protest
demonstrations to pay attention to the plight of our sisters and daughters who
have become widows. They are looking for respectable places and support.
Innocent kids are crying. These kids cannot express their feelings through
words. They are expressing their plight with cries. Men, women, old and young
have been stuck in the affected areas", Altaf Hussain said.

"I once again appeal to the protesting parties in the name of Islam, humanity,
decency and morality to defer their protest keeping in view  the critical
situation of the country. You can start your protest again once things come to
normal", he added.

He prayed to Allah to give us strength to help the affected families.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              945 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: PTI to hold huge protest on Aug 14: Imran

LENGTH: 193  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Aug. 7 -- Chairman Pakistan Tehreek-I-Insaf (PTI)

Imran Khan said on Tuesday that a huge protest and sit-in would be held

in the Federal Capital on August 14.

Addressing a press conference here, Imran Khan said that party

workers from different parts of the country would join the protest in

favour of their demands.

He said that the PTI would continue its protest until its demands

were met. The party would not reverse back its protest plan and not

succumb to any pressure. He ruled out any chance of postponing the

August 14 protest.

Imran Khan said that peaceful protest was the democratic right of

PTI and demanded that electoral system should be improved. Only 1970 elections
were held in a free and fair manner, he added.

Central leader of PTI Shah Mehmood Qureshi said that tempering,

bogus vote casting and unusual interference were reported in the recent general
elections, particularly in 13 constituencies, which was a clear example of
irregularities

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              946 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Maribyrnong & Hobsons Bay Weekly

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday
                     WKL Maribyrnong & Hobsons Bay Edition

By Goya Dmytryshchak#nl#Jillia...

BYLINE: Goya Dmytryshchak

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 370 words


By Goya Dmytryshchak

Jillian Hocking, who has previously worked with the United Nations in
Afghanistan, said her students from Belarus were fixated on the anti-government
protests in the Ukrainian capital.

"The protests in Kiev were in their third week when I was with the Belarusian
students and some students had trouble concentrating on the class," she said.

"Some were transfixed to the live feed coming directly from the protest square
in Kiev via the internet.

"I allowed this to be on the teaching screen in class as I thought it was
important for them to watch the protests unfold.

"Some of the students said they wished similar protests were happening in
Belarus but that was very unlikely.

"They were watching with great interest and wondering if such action could ever
be possible in Belarus.

"Interestingly, some of the students said they didn't want protests like this in
Minsk, the capital, saying they didn't like the capitalist system practised in
the West and were happy with what the Belarusian government offered its people -
free education, free health care, subsidised housing and heating.

"They said they didn't want to embrace the EU 'free' market economics model
where the state had less responsibility to its people."

Ms Hocking said social media embraced journalism and politics, as the role of
citizen journalism came to the fore during political unrest. "I think social
networking has been the great democratiser of knowledge," she said.

"The Arab spring, protests in Turkey, and Ukraine have seen and instigated
unprecedented change through the use of social media. Social networking has
meant a wonderful opening up of information which helps build strong democracies
if used correctly.

"Belarusian students, like all students and people that age, live on social
networking: this is how they get their information and news.

"They don't sit and watch television any more; they acquire their news on their
phones or tablets/laptops, any time, day or night.

"Citizen journalism forms a crucial part of that change as information is shared
without interference by the state."

Ms Hocking helped to establish a modern media and communications education
curriculum at the EHU, where she works as a visiting lecturer.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              947 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

YOUR LETTERS;
Protest action unwise

BYLINE: LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1159 words


Protest action unwise

THE right to protest is a democratic right, but endangering yourself or others
and acting outside the law while doing so is not.

For this reason, I urge caution on those inclined to take up the call made by
Greens Senator Lee Rhiannon to conduct "protests and non-violent direct actions"
against the proposed Terminal 4 project ("Calls for protests against T4 loader"
Herald 4/3).

There have been a number of examples over the years of protesters coming close
to being seriously injured or killed due to protest activities occurring on the
sites of Newcastle's existing coal loaders.

Our equipment is almost all automated and operated remotely and when interfered
with inappropriately, significant risks can arise.

Port Waratah discourages such interference and protest activity of this nature
in the strongest possible terms.

The Terminal 4 proposal remains the subject of a long and rigorous approval
process.

To date, stakeholders have had opportunity to express their thoughts on the
proposal during two public exhibition periods and a further opportunity will be
available during the public hearings to be held by the independent planning
assessment commission.

Hennie du Plooy,

CEO of Port Waratah Coal Services, Kooragang Island

Election strategy unconscionable

WITH all that has been written and said about the goings on with the last
municipal elections for the Port Stephens Council ("Bruce almighty" Herald 1/3),
one might think they were re-enacting a chapter out of the old New York Tammany
Hall policy manual.

From all accounts, those boys were well drilled in the art of winning elections.

Sadly, though, this sort of behaviour seems to be endemic in Australian
political life today.

It seems United States president Abraham Lincoln's famous words from his
Gettysburg Address, "a government of the people, for the people", have long
gone.

David Barrow,

Merewether

Telstra uncaring over breakdown

IS it really 2014 or 1814? In this modern age, why should any resident or
business have to suffer 12 days of no phone, internet or eftpos.

That is the ongoing situation in Warners Bay, from Jonathan Street back towards
Mount Hutton.

I'm not a Telstra customer, but they own the infrastructure. Telstra continue
with excuse after excuse for the date something will be repaired, only to find
that date comes and goes without any change happening.

Customers going ito businesses are either having to go back ito Warners Bay to
get cash or, worse, going to an opposition business and buying from them.

Telstra's answer?

Silence and further inaction as far as I can tell.

This isn't about compensation. It isn't about not having a phone or internet.

It is about how Telstra treat their customers and their infrastructure. They
don't seem to care. In my opinion, it seems to them that customers are not
important.

Steven Sams,

Warners Bay

More policies and power for women

I CONGRATULATE the Hunter chapter of UN Women and local Newcastle MP Tim Owen
for helping organise tomorrow's business breakfast to mark International Women's
Day ("Men to mark women's day" Herald 24/2).

International Women's Day is a time when we take stock of the many achievements
of women, but note the hurdles that continue to stand in the way of women's
political, economic and social empowerment, and consider what more we can do to
remove those barriers.

The theme of this year's breakfast - ending poverty for women through economic
empowerment - is also a strong personal focus in my role as Australia's Foreign
Affairs Minister.

The Australian government believes that one of the best ways to promote economic
development and growth, and to achieve peace and security, is to empower women
and girls.

Investing in women and girls means prosperity for everyone.

That is why more than 50 per cent of DFAT's administered aid budget is spent on
initiatives, policies and programs that have as their principal focus the
empowerment of women and girls.

It is smart economics and the right thing to do.

I congratulate the organisers for their commitment to promoting the interests of
women on International Women's Day.

Julie Bishop,

Foreign Affairs Minister

Does mining leave them a little horse

DENIS McGrorey ("Saddle up for long haul" Letters 5/3) should re-read my Short
Take of February 27.

I did not ask why anyone would buy a horse stud near a coalmine.

I asked for someone from the horse industry to explain what actual effect the
mines were having on the horses.

As I have not received a reply, I can only assume that the mines are not
actually affecting the horses.

John Ferris,

Muswellbrook

Glad generator sale not allowed

GOOD to see the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission can see
privatising power assets is bad for the people of NSW ("AGL bid for generator
fails" Herald 5/3).

Pity our state government doesn't.

How is $700 million (sale proceeds once debt is paid) for an income-producing
asset that brings in hundreds of millions of dollars seen as a good deal by the
state government?

Maybe it is if your plans are based on a three-year cycle.

When are governments going to stop selling our assets?

Taxpayers paid for them and most people don't want them sold.

Peter Gray,

New Lambton

Domestic abuse never acceptable

MY heart goes out to the women and children coping on a daily basis with
domestic violence.

This violence often starts with degrading comments, put-downs, emotional abuse,
verbal abuse, psychological abuse, using sneaky tactics and torments.

Then it commonly leads to physical abuse, a push here and there, and then
physical abuse escalates.

These men are gutless and make sure it's done at home behind closed doors so no
one else sees their behaviour.

They require lots of education, but they are usually arrogant, sneaky and
gutless wonders.

They need to man up and take responsibility for their actions. They love the
feel of power.

Please, all women, don't accept this behaviour because it won't get better - it
will get worse.

It is unacceptable behaviour.

Please contact the appropriate support group or network.

You deserve to feel safe and supported.

So, from this day change your future for the best in life for you and your
family. Stay safe.

Name and address withheld

Hard to cash in on act

CATE Blanchett forgot to mention in her Oscars speech that Schapelle Corby was
also another great Aussie actress.

How can a broken person laugh, drink beer and frolic in the surf ("Schapelle in
'suicide' bid" Herald 5/3)?

She was warned not to do the interview and when the authorities call her on it,
she tries to harm herself.

Also, she said she hates how the paparazzi won't leave her alone. But hello, it
seems dollar signs saw her invite them for an interview with her sister.

Why didn't she just hide out at her sister's without inviting a film crew to
film her?

Debra Forbes, Wickham

Letter of the week

This week, the letter judged the best, most succinct and interesting will win a
special Herald letter-writing pen. The winner will be announced on Saturday on
this page.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Schapelle Corby (pictured).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              948 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Egypt's "6 April Youth Movement" founder remanded in custody

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 2 December: The public prosecution ordered senior activist Ahmad Mahir to
be remanded in custody for four days pending investigations.

Mahir is accused of breaching protest law and assaulting security forces.

Mahir, the 6 April Youth Movement founder, was arrested Saturday on the backdrop
of the participation of 6 April in demonstrations outside the parliament on
Tuesday in defiance of a new protest law.

Maher turned himself in to the authorities on Saturday.

Egypt's new protest law, issued on Sunday last week by Interim President Adli
Mansur, requires protest organizers to notify the authorities of any protest
plans and the date, time and venue of their protest beforehand.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1649gmt 02 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              949 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 148

LENGTH: 258  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Tuesday. According to details, a
newlywed couple namely Ghulam Shabir Malik and Shahzadi Bhatti, residents of
Bihar Colony Kotri recorded a protest demonstration for the provision of
protection to them. The leaders of the All Sindh Peoples' Paramedical Staff
Association led by Aijaz Molai, Zulfiqar Jatoi and others recorded a protest
demonstration against the MS of the Civil Hospital Hyderabad. The protestors
accused the MS of corruption and misusing his powers. They demanded of the
concerned authorities to take notice of the matter and conduct an enquiry
against the MS.

The activists of the SUP Labour Wing led by Jabbar Bhutto and others recorded a
protest demonstration against the Super Star Motorcycle Company Kotri for
sacking 25 labourers without any reason. On the occasion, the protestors
demanded of the concerned authorities to reinstate the sacked employees,
otherwise they have threatened to accelerate their protest circle. A man named
Muhabbat Khan Solangi, resident of Latifabad No-3 recorded a protest
demonstration for the recovery of his abducted wife and two daughters. He said
that his wife Surayya and daughters Farhana and Marvi were kidnapped by the
influential men of Larkana on the 10th October, 2012, while the police have
still not succeeded to recover them. On the occasion, he demanded of the
concerned authorities to take notice of the matter and ensure the recovery of
his wife and daughters.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              950 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 7, 2013 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 65

LENGTH: 252  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to details, the
residents of Sikandarabad of Kotri including Afzal Khokhar and Pervez Khokhar
staged a protest demonstration against occupation of the church by influential
men.

A man namely, Peeral Khoso, resident of KN Shah recorded a protest demonstration
for the recovery of his abducted daughter namely Zeenat alias Guddi. He also
demanded immediate arrest of the accused kidnappers including, Ali Gul Khoso,
Gulab Khoso and others. A woman namely, Niamat w/o Laung Khan Chachar staged a
protest demonstration against the arrest of her husband by the New Saeedabad
Police.

A man namely, Abdul Majeed Arain, resident of Lalu Lashari staged a protest
demonstration against occupation of his plot by the influential men. The
employees of Sui Southern Gas Company Limited including Abdul Waheed Memon, Ali
Sher Solangi and others while recording a protest demonstration demanded of the
concerned authorities for immediate reinstatement of their services.

The journalists of Hyderabad under the leadership of Lala Rehman Samo, Hameed
Rehman and others staged a protest demonstration against attack on the
reporters' team of the private TV channel. The members of Anti-Toll Taxation
Committee Hyderabad under the leadership of Dr Hafeez Babar, Ilyas Khokhar,
Irfana Mallah and others staged a protest demonstration against the
establishment of illegal toll plaza near Detha.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              952 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                           December 18, 2012 Tuesday

Protests won't end until flag returns, say loyalists

LENGTH: 179  words


Loyalists involved in flag protests across Northern Ireland have vowed not to
stop until the Union Flag is flown again at the City Hall all year round.

Police say around 80 protests were held across the province, with people
blocking various roads and waving flags and banners.

Fifteen people were arrested, 11 police officers injured, and a protestor was
knocked down in Portadown.

To date 59 people have been arrested, 41 charged and 41 police officers have
been injured.

On a social networking site where protestors have been organising their
gatherings, the protests on Monday night were praised.

One post read: "The protests last night was a success the majority of them were
peaceful. I attended one at the Braniel Estate and it went off peaceful. Keep up
the good work folks and we will be heard. The protests should only stop when the
flag is Re-erected!" (sic)

Most politicians have called for street protests, event the peaceful ones, to
end because of the high tensions surrounding them.

Send us your protest pictures and videos to the News Letter with permission to
use.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL tablet


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              953 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                       Cihan News Agency (CNA) - English

                            September 7, 2012 Friday

Separatists Rally Urging India and Pakistan to Solve Kashmir Issue

LENGTH: 145  words


SRINAGAR (CIHAN)- Urging leadership of India and Pakistan 'to shun their
attitude of ignoring Kashmir or putting it on the backburner in negotiation
process', Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front held a protest rally at Lal Chowk,
demanding solution to the issue of Kashmir on priority basis.

The protest rally began from JKLF headquarters Maqbool Manzil. Later, Chairman
of JKLF Mohammad Yaseen Malik and other party leaders were detained by local
police. The protest was staged, as Indo-Pak foreign ministers meeting was
scheduled to be held in Islamabad.

SHOT LIST

Various of protest
Close of banner
Various of protest
S/B1 (HINDI): Mohammad Yaseen Malik, JKLF Chairman
Various of protest
Various of security personel
Various of security personel and protesters
Shots of leader being pushed in to police van
Shot of police van going away
Shot of protest

DURATION: 03:14
CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2012 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              954 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

Study: Large majority of Arab Muslim public supported last year's social justice
protests

BYLINE: BEN HARTMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


The overwhelming majority of the Arab Israeli public saw last summer's "social
justice" protests as justified and said they personally supported them,
according to figures from a study compiled by the Western Galilee Academic
College.

According to the figures, 69.2 percent of Arab Muslim respondents said the
protests were just, and 71.8% said they personally supported the protests. Among
Druse respondents, the figures were 88.2% and 70.6% respectively.

While the figures for the Arab Muslim sector were significantly lower than those
among the Jewish public (85% and 80%), Prof. Eran Zaidise, who oversaw the
survey, said they represented a remarkably high amount of sympathy for the
protests from the Arab sector.

"The fact that 70% of the Arab Muslim sector supports a protest that is almost
entirely run and supported by Jews is surprising because usually the Arab sector
doesn't identify with the problems or demands of the Jewish community because
they have their own concerns and politics."

Zaidise said the figures were compiled from 750 questionnaires distributed over
July, August and September of last year, with 200 of those distributed at the
main Rothschild tent city and 263 from students at the Western Galilee Open
University, among other places.

This summer's coming protests will either resemble last year's in that
organizers will present a non-partisan, apolitical front to draw in wider
crowds, or that they will become more political and more left wing at the
expense of drawing a smaller section of the public than last year's, according
to Zaidise.

"I doubt if large protests like last summer's could have much of a difference.
Politicians have no reason to change policy if there is no electoral reason to
do so," Zaidise said in regard to the importance of adopting a clear political
stance in the protests.

Zaidise also accused last year's protest organizers of "trying to hold the stick
at both ends," by saying that they were looking to change the government's
policies but not the government leadership itself.

Zaidise drew a comparison between last summer's protests and one held Saturday
night, which drew about 5,000 people to Rabin Square in Tel Aviv. Zaidise said
Saturday's protest was clearly "more red, partisan and much more of an
opposition protest than last year's, but also much smaller. The protests last
year that brought in 300,000, 400,000 people aren't the public that supports
this agenda."

When asked what it would take for a new wave of protests to be considered
successful, she said "if to succeed is to make a lot of noise and get people out
on the streets, and to dictate the conversation in the national media, then it
succeeded [last year], but if success is to bring widespread change in society
then it didn't succeed."

At the end of the day, the main problem in bringing a sweeping social change
through political protests, according to Zaidise, is that the public simply does
not want to upend its current leadership.

"For an effective protest, you have to be willing to change the leadership and
the people here aren't ready for that yet."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: SOCIAL JUSTICE protesters march last summer in Tel Aviv.
(Credit: Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              955 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

150,000 Israelis protest at high cost of living

BYLINE: MARK WEISS in Jerusalem

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 506 words


SOME 150,000 Israelis took to the streets on Saturday night in the country s
biggest protest for social justice.

More than 100,000 people gathered in Tel Aviv to protest against the high cost
of living in what was dubbed the  revolt of the middle classes  or the  Israeli
spring    a reference to the Arab spring protest movements that have swept
across the region in recent months.

There were similar protests in 10 other locations, including Jerusalem and
Haifa, which both attracted about 10,000 participants. The angry crowds chanted
the people demand social justice , as speakers called for affordable housing,
lower prices and a fairer distribution of wealth.

In a country where security issues are paramount, protests in favour of peace or
against giving up the West Bank are relatively common, but such a large turnout
over economic issues was unprecedented.

The protest began two weeks ago when a female student called on her Facebook
page for people to camp out in Tel Aviv to protest against high rent costs.
Within days hundreds of tents had been erected along Tel Aviv s trendy
Rothschild Boulevard and the protest quickly spread to other cities.

The activists broadened their demands to include better health and education
services, and expressed support for striking doctors who were demanding improved
pay and conditions.

Parents pushing strollers, complaining over the high cost of childcare, held
parallel protests.

Polls showed massive public support for the protests, and the media highlighted
the plight of many Israeli families who have two working parents but still find
it impossible to make ends meet.

The protesters were careful not to identify with any political party, although
it was clear that many of the activists were from the left.

The popularity of Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu has plummeted, and a
series of measures he announced, designed to bring down house prices, was
dismissed as too little, too late.

Ironically, the protest movement has sprouted in a period when the Israeli
economy is relatively robust. Economic growth, led by a strong high-tech sector,
is steady and unemployment is at a 30-year low.

Although elections are still two years away, Mr Netanyahu and ministers from his
ruling Likud party are clearly worried about the political backlash.

Mr Netanyahu announced yesterday the setting up of a ministerial team to hold a
dialogue with the protesters to try to change national priorities. At the same
time he made it clear there would be no  irresponsible  measures.

We must avoid rash and populist steps which may lead to bankruptcy,  he said.
We are all aware of the hardships and high cost of living in Israel. Some of the
claims being made are justified and some are not.

Many protesters blamed the top dozen or so families who control the commanding
heights of Israel s economy, but Israeli finance minister Yuval Steinitz warned
against chaos.  We will not create anarchy here. We will not turn the rich, the
investors and the industrialists into the enemies of the people.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              957 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan: Countrywide protests against Raymond Davis release, several injured

LENGTH: 167  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, March 19 -- The religious and social organizations staged protests in
Lahore, Karachi and Peshawar against release of Raymond Davis, here on Thursday.

According to media reports, release of Raymond Davis killer of two innocent
Pakistanis, triggered countrywide protests while several protestors sustained
injuries during baton charge.

The enraged protestors were holding placards inscribed with slogans against
Raymond Davis. The police started baton charge and tear gas to disperse the
protestors.

The students of Punjab University Academic Staff Association staged protest in
Lahore Taliban of Islami Jamiat also staged protest before press club.

Meanwhile, protests were also staged in Lakki Marwat, Charsadda, Mirpur Azad
Kashmir, Muzaffargarh, Nowshehra and Tamirgara against Raymond's releas
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              958 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 11, 2011 Friday

Police on alert in Azeri capital ahead of scheduled protest

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency Turan

Baku, 11 March: Today the police have stepped up security measures in Baku over
the appeal of a Facebook youth group ["11 March - Great People's Day"] to hold
an anti-government protest called "Great People's Day" on Friday [11 March].

Reinforced police units are stationed at metro stations and other busy areas.
Policemen and men in plain clothes stop and question "suspicious" people: who
are they and where are they going?

The police have placed the territory around the Oil Academy under intensive
surveillance as thousands of students staged a protest there two years ago. The
organizers of the protest have not named a concrete venue for the protest.
According to some reports, the protest will take place in the vicinity of the
railway station [in central Baku].

Source: Turan news agency, Baku, in Russian 0641 gmt 11 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              959 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday

4 dead, 40 injured after police fire on protesters in Aden

LENGTH: 159  words

DATELINE: Aden


Aden, Feb. 26 -- The anti government protest in Yemen claimed 4 more lives after
the police open fired on protesters in a clash leaving 4 dead and 40 injured in
the city of Aden.

During the protest against President Ali Abdullah Saleh, police opened fire on
protesters, killing two on the spot and the two more succumbed to their injures
in the hospital.

In the capital city of Sana a, a protest rally was taken out against the
government. People protested against the government at the funeral of a man who
got killed during the protests in the city of Taiz, in southern Yemen. Thousands
of people attended the funeral and they chanted slogans against the president.

The protests that started 9 days ago, on the 17th of February have so far
claimed 21 lives Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak
Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              960 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

BJP to stage rally to protest price rise

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Haldwani


Haldwani, March 12 -- The regional organisation of the BJP will be staging a
large public rally on March 14 in Haldwani to protest against the level of price
rise.

Regional members of the different cells of BJP have been undertaking
preparations for ensuring the successful organisation of this protest rally by
conducting a public awareness campaign.

As part of this campaign, the regional members of BJP Mahila Morcha staged a
protest demonstration and burnt the effigy of the Central Government to protest
against the continued price rise.

The BJP Mahila Morcha city head, Beena Joshi headed the protest demonstration
which started with members congregating at the Buddha park. Raising slogans
deriding the Central Government, the protesting members of BJP Mahila Morcha
also burnt the effigy of the Central Government to protest against the price
rise.

Addressing the protestors Beena Joshi said that the continued price rise had a
drastic negative effect on the budget of essential food commodities inspite of
which the UPA led Central Government has remained apathetic towards and unmoved
by the plight of the common masses.

Addressing the gathering at the protest demonstration in Buddha park, the former
State head of BJP Mahila Morcha, Mamta Faldia, exhorted the citizens of the
State to support and participate in the large public rally to be organised by
the BJP on March 14 in Haldwani.

By participating in the protest rally in large numbers the people can make a
befitting statement to the Central Government as to the public opinion regarding
the continued increase in price of essential food commodities and general price
rise. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              961 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                               February 27, 2010

ANC says 'unscrupulous elements' fuel protests

BYLINE: Johannesburg, South Africa

LENGTH: 376 words


The African National Congress in Johannesburg has pinned the blame for most of
the service-delivery protests in the city on "unscrupulous elements" within the
party.  "While some of the service delivery protests are genuine, most of them
are fuelled by unscrupulous elements who want leadership positions because of
vested and narrow self interests," ANC council chief whip Nonceba Molwele said
on Saturday.  Speaking at the end of a two-day ANC caucus lekgotla in
Johannesburg, she said the party's leadership in the city strongly condemned
this behaviour.  "Those who are behind this unbecoming behaviour will be named
and shamed very soon," Molwele said.  Johannesburg Mayor Amos Masondo said many
of the instigators were leading protests in an attempt to better their chances
in the 2011 local elections.

'Causes of protests are complex' "We are not opposed to protest, we oppose
illegal action and activity. The reality is there are many challenges faced by
municipalities in the country and some citizens concerns are valid. Government
is addressing issues of roads, healthcare and education, amongst others.  "The
causes of protests are complex, but there are some ANC members leading protests
at local level. The destruction of property can not be allowed and we will nip
this kind of behaviour in the bud," he said.  Molwele said the caucus had also
vowed that lazy, incompetent and corrupt public servants would no longer be
tolerated.  "The ANC councillors are fully aware of the service delivery
challenges and recommitted themselves towards fulfilling their electoral mandate
by ensuring better and faster services are rendered to all communities in the
various wards and regions.  "[They] resolved they will no longer tolerate public
servants and government officials who are lazy, incompetent and corrupt," she
said.  Molwele said there would be a "vigorous assessment" of public
representatives and senior government officials with respect to meeting
service-delivery targets in their areas of operation.   She added that the
council had resolved that corruption by public representatives and government
officials with regards to tenders and procurement, as well as the over-pricing
of goods and services, would be dealt with harshly. - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The ANC in Johannesburg has pinned the blame for most of the
service-delivery protests in the city on "unscrupulous elements" within the
party.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              962 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

BAE wins Texas protest against Oshkosh: BAE Systems also lost a contract to
Oshkosh locally, but has decided not to protest that one.

BYLINE: Brent Burkey, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


Dec. 16--A BAE Systems site in Texas has won a protest against a contract
received by competitor Oshkosh Corp., the same company that earlier this year
beat out the local BAE effort to help build thousands of next-generation
MRAP-style vehicles.

Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected All-Terrain Vehicle (M-ATV) work could have
helped the West Manchester Township operations call back some workers laid off
at the beginning of 2009, BAE previously said.

But BAE Systems said the ruling does not open the door for BAE to protest the
M-ATV award to Oshkosh, said Kelly Golden, spokeswoman for the company.

At issue in Texas was production of the military's Family of Medium Tactical
Vehicles (FMTVs), which BAE previously had helped build in Sealy, Texas --
before the U.S. Army awarded the deal to Oshkosh.

BAE and Navistar Defense protested, and Monday, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office said it ruled that parts of the U.S Army's decision
process were flawed.

The GAO ruled the military should re-evaluate its decision and, if found
necessary based upon the re-evaluation, terminate its contract with Oshkosh.

Golden said that BAE's decision to protest in the Texas case was based on its
belief the evaluation was flawed. BAE did not feel the same thing happened with
the local decision, so it decided not to protest.

Golden said BAE does not take the decision to protest government decisions
lightly.

Ann Stawski, vice president for marketing communications for

Oshkosh, said Tuesday the contract has not been terminated by the GAO decision
and that the company feels the review will uphold Oshkosh getting the deal.

After receiving the M-ATV contract, Oshkosh sent a large portion of M-ATV
production to a Pennsylvania subsidiary, JLG Industries, which previously didn't
specialize in defense vehicles.

Gov. Ed Rendell gave JLG worker retraining money from tax dollars to help the
McConnellsburg, Fulton County, plant put about 650 back to work and teach them
to make the M-ATVs.

At the time, the deal for Oshkosh to make the more than 5,000 of the vehicles
was worth about $2.6 billion.

BAE reduced its workforce by about 108 in early 2009 and then announced about
130 job reductions later this year.

Workers from the first reductions could have been called back if BAE got the
M-ATV work because of the skills they had from making previous MRAP vehicles,
the company said.

ABOUT BAE SYSTEMS

BAE Systems is a British defense company that makes various products for air,
land and sea military applications for armed forces around the world.

Locally, it manufactures and does other work related to military vehicles at the
former United Defense site in West Manchester Township with around 2,000 people,
although job reductions have lowered that number this year.

Some better-known vehicles include the Bradley Fighting Vehicles and the
Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected MRAP vehicles used in Iraq and elsewhere to
protect against roadside bombs.

To see more of the York Daily Record, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.ydr.com. Copyright (c) 2009, York Daily Record, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091216-YO-BAE-wins-Texas-protest-against-Oshkosh-1216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2009 York Daily Record


                              963 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aljazeera.net

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Clashes as Nepal's Maoists protest

LENGTH: 398 words



Riot police in Nepal have used tear gas and batons to break up a protest by tens
of thousands of Maoists.
The protesters had blockaded the entrance to the prime minister's office and
other government buildings in the capital, Kathmandu, on Thursday.


"We used force after the protesters tried to breach our security cordon and
enter the prohibited zone," Kanchha Bhandari, the deputy superintendent of
police, said.
The Maoists quit the government in May after the president stopped them from
sacking the head of the army.
Nationwide protests
The Maoists, led by the former prime minister Prachanda, have said that the
president had undermined the supremacy of the civilian government in stopping
them from acting.
"Our achievements have been hijacked and civilian supremacy has been hijacked.
The main aim of our protest is to restore it," Prachanda said as he led the
protest.
"Unless the president's move is corrected, we will continue our protests."
Thursday's demonstration is part of a fortnight-long series of nationwide
protests being held by the former guerrillas, who fought a 10-year civil war
against the state that ended in 2006.
The protest had started in celebratory mood, with activists dancing and playing
traditional music as they handed round dishes of rice and curry.
But the atmosphere turned angry as the clashes broke out and one television
station showed police using axes to destroy musical instruments left behind when
the demonstrators fled.
Barshanan Pun, a Maoist MP, said that 20 protesters had been injured in the
clashes.
Compromise needed
Al Jazeera's Subina Shrestha, reporting from Kathmandu, said that the government
was likely to give into some of the protesters' demands if the demonstrations
continued.
"The government cannot work. Today no one, except the foreign minister, could
enter the government houses - so this cannot continue for a very long time," she
said.
"Both side have to compromise at some point because the Maoists do not want to
go back to war. The government has not actuallly attacked the Maoists, it has
still not gone all out against the Maoists.
The Maoists emerged as the largest political party in elections last year after
agreeing a peace deal in 2006 and got the 239-year-old monarchy abolished
through a special assembly which turned Nepal into a republic.
But they quit the government after the dispute with the president.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                  Copyright 2009 Aljazeera.net - Aljazeera.net
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              964 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2009 Monday

Protest in Western Sahara to expose separation wall, says Polisario official

LENGTH: 319 words


Excerpt from report by Qatari government-funded, pan-Arab news channel
Al-Jazeera satellite TV on 12 April

Al-Jazeera TV interviewed on 12 April El Hartani Lahcene Hocine, the advisor of
the Polisario Front's leader, to comment on Morocco's condemnation of the move
by Polisario supporters to stage a protest in the separation zone in the Western
Sahara.

[Presenter] Why did the Polisario take this step, which Morocco describes as
dangerous and provocative and deems to be a violation of the cease-fire?

[Hocine] The timing of the protest has been set a year ago. It is a peaceful
protest and not the first of its kind to be staged outside the separation wall,
which is erected to divide the Saharan people on both sides of the barrier. Even
cattle cannot move freely across the wall, which we consider a crime against
humanity. The International Women's Association, which has members from many
countries, along with the Union of Saharan Women and the union of Saharan youths
staged the protest with the objective of condemning the wall and defending the
rights of the Saharan people. Their rights are violated on a daily basis in the
occupied territories. This is why a peaceful protest took place using banners
and slogans, not stones and bricks.

[Presenter] The protest was under way as peace talks were being prepared. Does
this reflect a feeling of disappointment felt by the Polisario in the talks and
its outcome or is it a reaction of some international groups to Morocco's
self-rule proposal?

[Hocine] [Sentence omitted about the protest organizers -over 2,000 people
coming from different countries]. The aim of the protest is to uncover the truth
that they [Moroccans] want to hide about the wall that divides Saharan families
and territories. Some people who do not know these facts may believe claims made
in Morocco's official statements on the issue.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2130 gmt 12 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              965 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            January 18, 2009 Sunday

Police arrests 35 at Gaza war protest

LENGTH: 315 words


CAIRO: Egyptian police arrested 35 people including four journalists at a
downtown Cairo protest against Israel's war in Gaza on Saturday, a security
official said.

Anti-riot police were deployed in strength to deal with the protest by around
1,000 people, mostly members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood opposition group,
the official said, asking not to be named.

The group, of which Hamas is an offshoot, said on their website that around
2,000 people attended the protest.

Hundreds of members of the Muslim Brotherhood have been rounded up in recent
weeks while trying to protest the Israeli onslaught in Gaza.

The Muslim Brotherhood has called on the authorities to allow expressions of
"popular anger" through demonstrations.

On Friday, almost 30,000 people took to the streets of Egyptian towns and cities
to protest the Israeli assault on Gaza, far fewer than in previous weeks, a
security official said.

Fearing a new "day of anger" after Friday prayers, Egyptian authorities had
deployed police reinforcements in Cairo and elsewhere.

The largest protest was in the northeast town of Mansoura where 6,000 people
turned out, while 5,000 demonstrators gathered in central Fayoum and 3,000 in
Aswan in the south, calling for a end to the Israeli onslaught, the official
said.

In Cairo, several hundred people gathered in the Bassatin district before being
dispersed by police. And almost 200 people demonstrated inside the compound of
the Al-Azhar mosque, surrounded by a police cordon.

Egypt's main opposition group the Muslim Brotherhood contested the figures. It
said on its website that 20,000 people protested in Mansoura and 15,000 in
Fayoum.

The turnout was nevertheless below that of previous weeks.

On Jan. 9, at least 50,000 people marched in the northern city of Alexandria to
condemn the "complicity" of some Arab governments in the Israeli blockade of
Gaza. [#xfffd][#x20ac]" AFP

© Daily NewsEgypt 2007

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              966 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Gulf Daily News

                                January 14, 2009

Embassy protest cancelled after permission is denied

BYLINE: TOM HANRATTY

LENGTH: 565 words


ORGANISERS of a planned demonstration outside the Egyptian Embassy have been
forced to cancel it for a second time after the Bahraini government again
refused to grant them permission.

The Bahrain Society Against Normalisation with the Zionist Enemy says it has now
abandoned any hope of going ahead with the protest.

"The (society) secretary met officials today who again refused to let the
protest take place outside the embassy," society vice-president Mohammed Musaed
told the GDN yesterday.

"They insisted we change the venue, but we can't accept it.

"Of course they try to justify the decision, but it's all about political
courtesy.

"They don't want to be embarrassed in case anything happens during the protest,
but we had a protest here last year and it was completely peaceful and we know
that this protest would be the same."

The society wanted to protest against Egypt, which has been accused of delaying
aid and preventing Arab doctors from reaching Gaza.

"This (Bahrain) is supposed to be a democratic country, where human rights
should take priority over political courtesy, but it is not like that," he said
of the decision to stop the protest.

"We are not being allowed our constitutional right. We have a right of
expression and we want to apply that right peacefully, but it is being
confiscated.

"Our message to the Egyptian government is that we don't accept what they are
doing. I am sorry to say this but if they continue preventing medical aid
getting to the Palestinian people they are just helping the other side
(Israel)."

One gathering that is still going ahead is a protest this Friday at 3pm outside
Kanoo Mosque, Muharraq, organised by the Public Committee to Support Gaza.

The organisation's general co-ordinator Isa Sayyer is inviting the whole country
to take part and express solidarity with the Palestinian people.

"We want everybody in the country to participate in the march," he explained.

"We will begin at the Kanoo Mosque, go through the streets of Muharraq and come
back to the mosque.

"After the march we will have speeches from well-known Bahraini figures on the
situation in Gaza and what we are doing to support the people."
Key speakers on the day will include Dr Abdulla Mahmood, Dr Najid El Arabi and
Al Adala (Justice) National Movement Society general secretary Abdulla Hashim.
Apart from Friday's march, Mr Sayyer said his organisation had lined up other
activities to highlight the plight of people in Gaza.
"We have also decided to contact the ambassadors of Russia, Britain, China and
France with the purpose of explaining the Bahraini people's views and feelings
and to ask if they will pass on letters to their leaders condemning the double
standards towards the Gaza situation," he said.
"In addition, we are preparing a report to send to Human Rights Watch and
Amnesty International to inform them of the Bahraini people's views and feelings
and what they are doing to support Gaza."
Meanwhile, it is also researching the possibility of filing a case against
Israel at the International Criminal Court.
"We are communicating with the Arab Lawyers' Union to find out whether there is
any need to involve Bahraini lawyers in a case against Israeli leaders," Mr
Sayyer explained.
"We have a plan to gather information and prepare a file to see if it is even
possible to make a case. If the Arab Lawyers' Union needs us we have a team
ready to go."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5


     Copyright 2009 Gulf Daily News - Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              968 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 25, 2007 Tuesday

Chinese agency reports on Burma protests 24 September

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)
Asia-Pacific service

[Report by Reporter Zhang Yunfei: "Tens of Thousands of Monks and Civilians
Stage Protest Demonstration in Yangon, Burma"]

Yangon, September 24 (Xinhua) - Tens of thousands of monks and civilians took to
the street and staged the largest protest demonstration in recent days on
September 24.

This was the latest escalation of Yangon monk demonstrations since September 18
and was also the first time civilians took part in protest demonstration on a
considerably large scale. The slogans of the protesters include improvement of
people's livelihood, release of political prisoners and national reconciliation.
The protest activities ended at 17:00 in the afternoon.

In mid-August, Myanmar's energy departments substantially increased the
government supply price for gasoline and other energy products, which triggered
a general price hike. The move caused some civilians and monks to take to the
street to stage protest demonstrations.

After nearly 20 days of negotiations with the government, the monks still did
not get a satisfactory answer to their demands. Protest marches by monks broke
out in various parts of the country after September 18. In Yangon, the largest
city in Myanmar, monks staged protests everyday, attracting large numbers of
civilian spectators.

In the handling of protest demonstrations by monks in various parts of the
country, the authorities have exercised restraint in all cities except using
tear gas and firing warning shots in Sittwe in the Rahhaing state.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in Chinese 1409 gmt 24 Sep 07

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              969 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

COUNTRYWIDE PROTESTS OVER KNIGHTHOOD

LENGTH: 303 words


ISLAMABAD -- People across the country Friday staged protest rallies against the
British government's conferment of knighthood on blasphemer Salman Rushdie and
asked the Muslim countries to end diplomatic relations with Britain.

The protest demonstrations were held in various major cities of the country on
the call of Muthahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA). The protesters strongly condemned the
British government for conferring the title Salman Rushdie, the author of book
"Satanic Verses".

Like other parts of the country protest rallies were also held in the twin
cities of Rawalpindi and Islamabad. A protest rally was held at Karachi Company
of the federal capital was led by opposition leader Maulana Fazlur Rehman.

The participants were holding placards and banners inscribed with slogans
against Rushdie and the British government.

Speaking on the occasion, Fazlur Rehman said the Britain government has hurt the
Muslims sentiments by awarding the title to Rushdie. "We will fight against the
enemies of Muslims," he reiterated.

He said, "We are with democracy and will never support dictatorship." He
expressed concern over the statement of Benazir Bhutto on the issue alleging
that she had joined the enemy of the Muslims.

"The Muslim who joined the enemy of Muslim Ummah is not acceptable to
Pakistanis," he added. He said the Muslims countries should sever diplomatic
relations with Britain and asked the government to declare the British
ambassador persona non grata.

Another protest rally was also held by Pakistan Awami Teheek at Karachi Company.

Mukhtar Students Organization also staged a protest demonstration in front of
Rawalpindi Islamabad Press Club Camp office in this regard. The protest was
attended by a large number of students and holding placards and banners
inscribed with anti-Britain slogans.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: International Relations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                           Copyright 2007 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              970 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            February 2, 2007 Friday

Protests cost Korea W7tr-W12tr: report

BYLINE: Shin Hae-in

LENGTH: 311 words


Mass demonstrations last year were estimated to have cost the nation at least
6.9 trillion won ($7.4 billion) in taxpayers' money, equivalent to about 0.8
percent of Korea's gross domestic product, research showed yesterday.

The Korea Development Institute estimated the social costs of a total of 362
large protests involving over 1,000 participants last year. It reckoned police
expenditures, wasted time due to disrupted traffic and losses in production and
sales.

The state-run think tank conducted the first comprehensive analysis of social
costs incurred by protests, commissioned by the Office for Government Policy
Coordination.

The number of mass protests has been on the increase since 2004, leading to an
average of 460 protests per year.

The institute came up with the cost estimate by adding production losses caused
by workers' walkouts, sales losses for shops near the scenes of protests,
traffic disturbance expenses and the mental distress of citizens.

Demonstrations in Seoul accounted for over 50 percent of the total protest
costs, or some 6.9 trillion won when assuming that they were illegal.

The KDI said that even a protest in Yeoido, where there is almost no disturbance
to nearby merchants, would cost over 237 million won, the cost increasing
exponentially in areas with more pedestrians, traffic and shops.

For example, a two-hour protest with 2,400 participants in Jongno, Seoul, on a
weekday would cost the nation over 68 billion won - 1.2 million won for riot
police, 1.1 million for disruptions to traffic, 5.5 billion won for merchants'
losses and 62 billion won for citizens mental distress.

But some point out that the report may lack accuracy. The institute allocated
220,000 won to every citizen for mental distress and 470,000 won for nearby
merchants losses, but the sums were decided upon thru a random public survey.

(hayney@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              971 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 7, 2003

Cricket: Olonga urges Test protests

BYLINE: Paul Kelso

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 486 words


Henry Olonga has urged spectators at the forthcoming Test matches between
England and Zimbabwe to use the opportunity to protest against human rights
abuses by President Robert Mugabe's government.

Olonga, who was thrown out of Zimbabwe's World Cup squad and forced to leave the
country after he and fellow player Andy Flower wore black armbands in protest at
the "death of democracy" in their country, said protests would be more
constructive than a boycott by spectators.

"The Test matches will help draw attention to the human rights abuses in
Zimbabwe. People should come along to the matches but do something with placards
or whatever to make their point. That would be better than the silent approach,"
he said.

Protesters, including the activist Peter Tatchell and the former sports minister
Kate Hoey, have vowed to protest at Zimbabwe's two matches at Lord's later this
month and at Durham in early June. There was a small protest at Edgbaston for
the tourists' match against British Universities.

A spokesman for the ECB said it respected the right of people to protest
peacefully and lawfully. "We should be grateful that we have the democratic
right in this country to protest, and we will respect that, as long as people
respect the right of other people to watch the cricket. If it impinges on other
people's enjoyment then that is a problem."

Unlike in football stadiums, ECB ground regulations do not explicitly prohibit
political statements being made by spectators, but there are a number of
catch-all clauses that could be used to prevent banners or placards or banners
being displayed. One such prohibits banners that could "be construed as
offensive to other spectators".

MCC members attending today's annual general meeting will face protesters at the
gates of Lord's lobbying them to cancel the Test on the grounds that the
Zimbabwe squad has been politically vetted by the Mugabe government. Mugabe is
patron of the Zimbabwe Cricket Union.

A spokesman for the touring side yesterday denied there had been any political
input in selection.

Zimbabwe's two-Test series comes just three months after England boycotted their
World Cup fixture in Harare, ostensibly on security grounds, after the ICC
refused an England and Wales Cricket Board request to have the match relo cated
because the England players hd received a death threat. Olonga said he felt that
had the team known the ICC would reject the request then Nasser Hussain's squad
would have boycotted the match on moral grounds.

"Nasser was very clear that he did not want anyone going to watch the game to
get hurt or caught in trouble caused by the match," he said.

*The West Indies wicketkeeper Ridley Jacobs has been included in the 14-man
squad for the fourth Test against Australia, which starts on Friday. Jacobs
missed the last two Tests against Australia because of a groin strain.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              972 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 17, 2002

Greenham Common protest memorial;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 302 words


A WOMAN who campaigned for 20 years to stop cruise missiles being deployed at
Greenham Common has called on people to take non-violent direct action to stop
any proposed attack on Iraq.

Veteran Greenham Common campaigner Sarah Hipperson claims that it is not enough
for peace protesters to simply march against US action.

"With the United States seemingly willing to act outside international law in
order to attack Iraq, peace protesters need to be prepared to do more than just
march, " she says.

"They need to find out where the troop movements are likely to be and act to
obstruct them in a way similar to that utilised at Greenham."

Hipperson is preparing for the opening next month of the memorial garden to mark
the 20 years of protest against the deployment of cruise missiles on the
Greenham Common site.

She is passionate about the garden which she sees as a living thing as she says
that, had the garden not been established, then it would be as though the
victorious protest of the women never happened.

"The Greenham Common protest was all about ordinary people bringing about
change, " Hibberson says.

"The memorial garden is to be a living thing in that it shows how protest for
peace can work and it will be an inspiration for those who will act to stop war
in Iraq and other places."

The goals achieved by the Greenham Common protest are:

The Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty which drove the missiles away was made
possible by keeping up the pressure;

Winning the women's right to vote for a second time after it had been denied to
the protesters;

The overturning of illegal by-laws established on the land; Return of the land
to common grazing.

For more information on the memorial, write to:

GCWPC, 15 Sydney Road, Wanstead, London E11 2JW.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd


                              973 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                             May 3, 2000 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Truckers relocate fuel price protest: Blockade moves to Esso plant after
Petro-Canada court injunction

BYLINE: Marnie Douglas, Daily News Staff Reporter, The Daily News

SECTION: CITY/REGION; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 324  words


Half a dozen truckers are keeping up a vigil outside the Esso bulk plant in
Kamloops, part of a protest against rising fuel costs.

The trucks are blocking the refinery to prevent fuel from moving in and out of
the site. As the protest entered day two, officials with Imperial Oil had not
yet received a court injunction to remove the trucks. Petro-Canada got a Supreme
Court injunction Monday ordering the trucks to leave its bulk plant.

The demonstration is being organized by Canadian Carriers Consulting Ltd.
Truckers are being asked to picket refineries and cardlocks to halt the flow of
fuel, but support has been lacking.

The B.C. Truckers' Association has denounced the protest, saying it prefers to
negotiate with the oil companies rather than protest.

``We try to solve these problems by talking to people in a position to make
decisions. Blockades and protests are not the way we do business,'' said Paul
Landry, association president in Vancouver.

Rather than protest, Landry said his members have all slapped surcharges on
customers and shippers in response to mounting diesel costs.

If truckers were to protest every time costs went up, there would be no trucks
on the highway, he added.

``I just don't think this is the industry putting its best foot forward,'' he
said, about the independent owner/operators protesting in Kamloops.

Sharon Weipert and daughter Serena were on the picket line Tuesday, lending
their support for trucker Brian Weipert.

``I'm really disappointed with the lack of support that we're getting, and
especially from the B.C. Trucking Association. They are supposed to represent
all the truckers, not a select few,'' said Sharon Weipert.

She admits she has a good job and is able to supplement her husband's trucking
job and support the family. Without her job, Weipert said there would be little
family income.

``His costs have just gone way up. We couldn't support our kids on his income,
there's no way,'' she added.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Keith Anderson Photo; Truck Owner/Operator Brad Holm, left, and supporter
Aaron Newbery sit outside the Esso bulk terminal entrance Tuesday next to the
eastbound weigh scales. A number of truckers are protesting high fuel prices. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2000 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              974 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday

World champs at protest

BYLINE: Azizzar Mosupi, Suthentira Govender; Nivashni Nair

SECTION: HUMAN INTEREST

LENGTH: 344 words


We're the country with most gripes
 SOUTH Africa is the most protest- rich country in the world, according to
leading security studies experts.
 The Institute for Security Studies warned that confrontational protests were
becoming "endemic" to South Africa's political landscape and the "language" of
people who felt disenfranchised.


 The comments came as the SA Human Rights Commission hearings on ensuring the
right to a basic education began yesterday.
 In his presentation at the hearing, the Department of Basic Education's
director-general, Mathanzima Mweli, called for more stringent measures,
including lengthy prison sentences and the involvement of the army, to stem
violent protest action.
 The Institute for Security Studies' public violence monitoring project recorded
2880 "incidents of public gathering related to protests or public violence"
between 2013 and 2015 - 53% of which were violent.
 The most recent instances included a week of violent service delivery protests
in Durban; Vuwani in Limpopo; and Hammanskraal  north of Pretoria, where schools
were burnt and two people killed.
  Mweli said that, had the army been involved in addition to the police presence
, the damage in Vuwani could have been minimised.
 "South Africa remains the most protest-rich country in the world. Protest is
not just escalating, it is becoming more confrontational," said Imraan Buccus, a
University of KwaZulu-Natal academic specialist in participatory democracy.
 Research by the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation found that
organisers were often political leaders who used community frustrations to
mobilise supporters.
 The research found that "their true motivation is often political or economic
gain", including access to positions of power or "lucrative council business".
 Nomfundo Mogapi, the centre's executive director, said communities believed
that the "power of tyre burning is the smoke".
 "In our research, communities revealed that the smoke is to call the leaders.
This may be the reason for the increased burning of tyres," Mogapi said.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2016 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              975 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Nuneaton News

                            December 14, 2015 Monday

Protest exhibit has started to interest visitors

BYLINE: Ryan Merriman

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 298  words


AN INSIGHTFUL exhibition with a new film has now begun.

'Protest' is now being featured at Nuneaton Museum and Art Gallery.

The display includes a newly made film, alongside especially made panels and
museum objects, and the show highlights ideas and values relating to protest.

Visitors to the Riversley Park-based centre will be able to find out how
previous protests have made a difference to the way we live now.

They will also be able to learn about how individuals and groups can make their
voices heard and see if the protests discussed in the show challenge  views
about how a protest can be staged.

The museum has worked with creative media students from King Edward VI College
in Nuneaton, alongside artist Chris Bradley, to create a short film for the
show.

This film, entitled 'Little Brother', has been created especially for the
exhibition as part of the museum's outreach programme.

It lasts approximately five minutes and uses stop-motion animation.

It shows how a person discovers and then protests against a society that is
constantly watching them.

Councillor Ian Lloyd, Nuneaton and Bedworth Borough Council cabinet member for
arts and leisure said: "Protests can help bring about valuable change in
society.

"The show is particularly interesting as it discusses which forms of protest are
legal, as well as highlighting some of the big changes which have been effected
by protests of the past.

"It's also great to see young people get involved in film-making at the museum
and I'm sure the newly created film will be a visitor favourite."

Admission to the centre is free and there is a whole host of other displays.

These include 'Lindsey Marshall: Word and Image' which is running until February
7, 2016. 'Protest' will be on show at the museum until February 14 next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW EXHIBITION... 'Protest' is now being featured at Nuneaton Museum
and Art Gallery.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              976 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

Change nature of protest: NHRC to agitators

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Nov. 2 -- The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has urged the
agitating parties to change the nature of their protests arguing that the act of
obstructing border checkpoints and highways not only affects Nepal-India
relations but also adds to the hardships of the Nepali people.

The NHRC on Sunday published its monitoring report of the protests held before
and after the promulgation of the new constitution and suggested to the
agitating parties not to use no man's land for protests.

"The commission urges the agitating parties to respect the rights of Nepali
citizens to celebrate their traditional festivals," stated the report.

"Though a serious humanitarian crisis has surfaced since the blockade at border
checkpoints and this has curtailed the people's right to essential supplies, the
protestors have failed to show minimum human sensitivity. The act of staging
protests at no man's land has shown misuse of the right to peaceful protests,"
the NHRC concluded.

The commission has asked the parties to make their protests peaceful and stop
the use of sticks, slingshots, spears, axes and sickles during the protests. On
the other hand, the commission has also concluded that security forces have used
excessive force in their attempt to contain the protests and urged the
government to implement the directives of the commission, the Supreme Court and
the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights regarding the use of
force.

The constitutional body has urged the government to take legal action against
the officials as well as protestors involved in various killings during the
protest programs.

In its report, the commission has mentioned that 49 people lost their lives
during the recent protests and at least 729 sustained injuries. According to the
NHRC, police were responsible for 32 deaths while protestors were responsible
for nine. The commission's report said three protestors had died in vehicle
accident while five others were reportedly killed by protestors but the
protestors have not taken any responsibility for the deaths.

NHRC has also concluded that the failure of the government to implement the
agreements reached with different agitating sides and groups has paved the way
for repeated protests on the same issues.

The commission has urged both parties to such agreements to honestly implement
them.

Likewise, the commission has urged the political leaders, cadres, security
officials, media persons, human rights activists and civil society leaders not
to voice expressions that incite communal, regional or other feelings of hatred.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              977 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             October 9, 2015 Friday

Chandigarh PGI doctors hold protest against long-pending issues;
The decision to organise the protest was taken in the general body meeting, of
the PGI faculty association on Wednesday.

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 322  words


The decision to organise the protest was taken in the general body meeting, of
the PGI faculty association on Wednesday.

More than 50 doctors from the PGI faculty association on Thursday held a protest
demonstration against the engineering department of the hospital for not
resolving their long pending demands.

The silent protest continued for about half-an-hour outside the director's
office and ended peacefully.

Holding placards, the agitating doctors threatened that they would intensify
their agitation and continue the protests on a daily basis till their demands
are met. The doctors said they would boycott the Institute's Research Day
function that is to be held later this month.

The decision to organise the protest was taken in the general body meeting, of
the PGI faculty association on Wednesday.

The doctors said the PGI director had earlier called the president and secretary
for the meeting in which the director conveyed to the association that the
protest is "uncalled for and the engineering department is doing their best to
resolve all the issues".

A statement issued by the association said that the association representatives
conveyed the message to the assembled faculty members and executive council
unanimously rejected the proposal and decided to continue and intensify its
agitation.

Representatives of Association of Resident Doctors were also present during the
protest. "We are also facing similar pathetic attitude of engineering department
in the hostels and OPD," said Dr. Pulkit Rastogi, President of Association of
Resident Doctors

The PGI faculty association on Wednesday had said that they will serve an
ultimatum to the PGI administration stating that there should be "accountability
in the engineering department and the Professor In charge and Superintendent
Hospital Engineer of the engineering department should accept their moral
responsibility for the lack of execution of the important issues".

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              978 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                getreading.co.uk

                      August 9, 2014 Saturday 10:49 AM GMT

Campaigners plan protest at Burghfield AWE site today;
Action Atomic Weapons Eradication (AAWE) is expected to hold demonstrations
outside the AWE sites in Burghfield and Aldermaston today

BYLINE: By Jennie Slevin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 273 words


Campaigners are expected to demonstrate outside the AWE site in Burghfield
today.

Thames Valley Police officers have been made aware of the protest by Action
Atomic Weapons Eradication (AAWE) which is part of a proposed three-year-long
campaign launched in February last year.

Officers and other partner agencies, including West Berkshire Council, plan to
work closely with protest organisers to ensure peaceful and lawful
demonstrations.

Superintendent Robin Rickard, silver police commander for the operation, said:
"Thames Valley Police will be working closely with its partners at West
Berkshire Council, Hampshire Constabulary, the Atomic Weapons Establishment and
Ministry of Defence Police to minimise the impact of the protest on the local
communities and fulfil our legal responsibility to facilitate peaceful protest.

"We have also liaised with the protest organisers and hope to develop a good
understanding with them.

"We respect everyone's right to protest in this way.

"However, should activity go beyond peaceful those breaking the law will be
dealt with proportionately.

"Measures are in place to notify local residents and those that might possibly
be affected by protests of any planned or unplanned activity and our aim is to
ensure that there is minimal disruption caused to local residents and the wider
community of West Berkshire and the surrounding areas whilst facilitating
protest."

A Twitter account @WBprotrestinfo has been set up to provide information to the
public about the protest and any impact this might have on transport.

A similar demonstration is also expected to take place at another AWE site in
Aldermaston.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBREAD


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              979 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

Villagers protest with dead body demanding road for burial yard

SECTION: MADURAI

LENGTH: 348 words


MADURAI: Villagers staged a protest with a dead body for more than 36 hours from
Tuesday demanding a proper access road to burial yard at Usilampatti in Madurai.

As the protest prolonged for the second day on Wednesday, revenue officials held
talks with the agitated villagers and pacified them. The villagers withdrew the
protest after the officials promised to lay a proper road in a month's time.

The villagers of Chettiapatti and Nadupatti have been demanding proper road to
the burial ground for the past 10 years. The villagers had to take the dead
bodies in a circuitous route of three km from the village to reach the burial
ground. They said that there was not even a proper path to reach the main road
that would take them to the burial ground.

Moreover, they had to cross a stream for the purpose. But, during monsoon the
stream would be in full flow posing much difficulty. A series of protests were
staged by the villagers over years demanding the road.

In this backdrop, CPM branch secretary Asaikodi's 80-year-old father Sankarappa
Naicker died on Tuesday. Asaikodi and relatives refused to bury the body as
their demand was not met for years. Laying the dead body in the village yard,
the entire village gathered and staged a protest, which . The villagers refused
to bury the body on Wednesday and continued the protest continued for the second
day.

Revenue officials who sensed that the protest would grow intense, visited the
village and held talks with the villagers promising that their demand would be
met. The angry villagers confronted the officials stating that every time they
staged a protest, the officials had given the same promise, but ignored it after
the protest was withdrawn.

However, the revenue, police and local body officials assured that tender for
the road would be invited in January and road would be laid soon. The protest
was withdrawn and the body was cremated only after the officials gave the
assurance in writing.

Villagers said that they would intensify the protest if the road works did not
commence in January.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              980 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Pakistan: ASWJ ends protest, performs funeral rituals of Maulana Shams

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Dec. 9 -- The Ahal-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) has ended its protest
sit-in and performed funeral rituals of slain leader Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman few
moments ago in Lahore this night, Right Vision News reports.

Leaders of the ASWJ agreed upon burial of slain leader Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman
Moawia after successful talks with the Punjab regime and getting assurance of
Punjab CM for capturing the killers of slain leader.

Punjab regime's representatives, provincial health adviser Khawaja Salman
Rafique and MNA Malik Afzal, reached on the protest spot to talk with the ASWJ
leaders and persuade them for ending the protests and burying slain leader
Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman's body without any further delay.

After successful talks with Khawaja Salman and Malik Afzal, and getting
assurance on behalf of the Punjab regime, for capturing the killers of slain
leader, the ASWJ leaders agreed upon eliminating the protest sit-in and burying
body of Maulana Shams in Lahore.

The CCPO of Lahore told on the occasion that the ASWJ will end its protest with
sit-in soon and perform funeral prayer of the slain leader.

The ASWJ leaders told while ending the protest rally and sit-in that they are
concluding their protest sit-in after getting assurance from the Chief Minister
of Punjab for capturing the culprits, involved in assassination of Maulana
Shams, on top priority basis.

After completion of all funeral rituals including funeral prayer, corpse of
Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman has been buried in Mian Mir Graveyard of Lahore. A large
number of leaders and activists of the ASWJ attended the final rituals of their
former provincial chief and witnessed his burial ceremony at the cemetery.

Earlier this evening, the Ahl-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) followers declined to
lay their slain Punjab leader to rest until their demands were met, as Maulana
Tahir Ashrafi announced to take the dead body of Maulana Shamsur Rehman to
Punjab Assembly for further agitation.

Pakistan Ulema Council (PUC) Chairman Allama Tahir Ashrafi ruled out
negotiations but with Chief Minister Sharif or some other high official

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              981 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday

ASWJ ends protest, performs funeral rituals of Maulana Shams

LENGTH: 347  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


The Ahal-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) has ended its protest sit-in and performed
funeral rituals of slain leader Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman few moments ago in
Lahore this night, Daily The Pak Banker reports.

Leaders of the ASWJ agreed upon burial of slain leader Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman
Moawia after successful talks with the Punjab regime and getting assurance of
Punjab CM for capturing the killers of slain leader.

Punjab regime's representatives, provincial health adviser Khawaja Salman
Rafique and MNA Malik Afzal, reached on the protest spot to talk with the ASWJ
leaders and persuade them for ending the protests and burying slain leader
Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman's body without any further delay.

After successful talks with Khawaja Salman and Malik Afzal, and getting
assurance on behalf of the Punjab regime, for capturing the killers of slain
leader, the ASWJ leaders agreed upon eliminating the protest sit-in and burying
body of Maulana Shams in Lahore.

The CCPO of Lahore told on the occasion that the ASWJ will end its protest with
sit-in soon and perform funeral prayer of the slain leader.

The ASWJ leaders told while ending the protest rally and sit-in that they are
concluding their protest sit-in after getting assurance from the Chief Minister
of Punjab for capturing the culprits, involved in assassination of Maulana
Shams, on top priority basis.

After completion of all funeral rituals including funeral prayer, corpse of
Maulana Shams-ur-Rehman has been buried in Mian Mir Graveyard of Lahore. A large
number of leaders and activists of the ASWJ attended the final rituals of their
former provincial chief and witnessed his burial ceremony at the cemetery.

Earlier this evening, the Ahl-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) followers declined to
lay their slain Punjab leader to rest until their demands were met, as Maulana
Tahir Ashrafi announced to take the dead body of Maulana Shamsur Rehman to
Punjab Assembly for further agitation.

Pakistan Ulema Council (PUC) Chairman Allama Tahir Ashrafi ruled out
negotiations but with Chief Minister Sharif or some other high officials

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              982 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday

Agitators to step up protest for Gorkhaland

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: ILAM


ILAM, Aug. 18 -- The agitators demanding a separate state of Gorkhaland in the
Darjeeling Hills of India have decided to step up their protest from Monday.

The decision comes after the state government of West Bengal decided to deploy
additional security personnel in the Hills to suppress the ongoing protest.

A meeting of 'Gorkhaland Joint Action Committee' comprising the seven agitating
political parties held at Siliguri on Sunday decided to resort to severe forms
of protest programs, altering the protest programs they had earlier announced
for the next phase, which is to start from Monday.

Raju Pradan, coordinator of the committee, informed that the committee has
shortened the five-day "janta curfew" program into a day, where people
voluntarily remain indoors to express solidarity to the protest.

In the remaining four days, the residents in Darjeeling will now hit the streets
with placards and banners criticizing the state and central governments for
turning a deaf ear to their demands. During the protest, according to Pradhan,
all the markets in Darjeeling will remain closed.

"All the locals will take to the street from August 20 to 23. We have titled the
protest as 'People in Streets'," said he.

Emerging from the meeting, Pradhan said the protest programs had to be stepped
up also because the self-imposed curfew went unheeded.

However, the committee has not changed a torch rally program to be carried out
on August 24 and 25. Likewise, on August 27, the locals will stage protest for
two hours in the streets tying black bands around the arms.

Similarly, the agitating political parties on August 27 and 28 will send a fax
to the country's president, prime minister and home minister, demanding a
separate state.

Meanwhile, the committee has urged all the members of the Indian parliament to
express solidarity to their protest.

Pradhan further informed that additional protest programs will be announced by
the committee following a meeting on August 30.

Meanwhile, All Indian Gorkha League (AIGL) has alienated itself from the
Gorkhaland Joint Action Committee on Sunday.

Chairman of AIGL, Bharati Tamang said that her party will not join the committee
unless the struggling Gorkha Janamukti Morcha abandons Gorkhaland Territorial
Administration, a special administrative unit formed by the Indian government in
Darjeeling to placate similar agitations in the past for a separate statehood.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              983 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday

'Turkish nation understood real target of Gezi Park protests'

LENGTH: 296 words


Erdogan said his nation patiently monitored protests so they have clearly
understood what was achieved with Gezi Park protests. ANKARA Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan stated Tuesday that his nation patiently monitored
the protests so that they had clearly understood what was achieved with Gezi
Park protests.    Speaking in a group meeting of his ruling Justice and
Development  (AK) Party, Erdogan said that Gezi Park did not belong to a
minority but to the whole nation, stating, "We appreciate our national will as
our honor and we'll protect it with our lives." "Protesters could not find
domestic support so they began seeking external support," Erdogan said.

"Protests in Brazil and Turkey are administered from same centre." Erdogan
stressed, "Police entered the hotel at Taksim in pursuit of vandalists after
they attacked the police. Abetting is a crime," and said purpose of Gezi Park
protests was to hamper growth of Turkey and its economy.  He added that violence
was never a precursor of victory and said it consumes and marginalizes,
stressing, "Those who use violence, always end up as losers. This nation will
never ingest these campaigns and saw their real target. This nation stands by
the truth and the righteous."     Erdogan underlined, "Many of our youngsters
were deceived, they became bit players and puppets," and said, "Both today and
tomorrow, we'll reach a solution for each matter among us in brotherhood."  "We
have to find solution to Alawite process at the desk" Erdogan stated he had
instructed his deputy prime minister on resumption of Alawite process but "they
have to find solution to this issue at the desk."  "I want my Alawite citizens
to be extremely careful against these plots and not to get deceived by them," he
added.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2013 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              984 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday

APCA sets up protest camp

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 56

LENGTH: 156  words


All Pakistan Clerks Association Balochistan has set up a protest camp in front
of the Press Club here on Monday. The protest camp will remain continued till
acceptance of the demands, stated the President APCA Balochistan, Dad Muhammad
Baloch while talking to the media here on Monday.

Dad Muhammad said that the APCA demands are not being met despite the assurances
made by the concerned quarters in this regard forcing the APCA to lodge protest
to press them to accept the same.

The APCA provincial president said that if the demands including pertaining to
grant of time scale as well as resolving other issues were not met, the protest
would be intensified further. The APCA president also said that he is also
mulling over to start hunger strike as a mark of protest soon.

He also announced that a protest sit-in would be held by the APCA workers in
front of the civil secretariat against non-acceptance of their demands, on
February 27.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              985 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

Flag protestors adopt white line' strategy

LENGTH: 253  words


UNION flag protestors are to adopt a new strategy by holding white-line'
demonstrations, allowing traffic to flow in both lanes, it has emerged.

In a statement posted on his Facebook page, Chairman of the Ulster People's
Forum Jamie Bryson said the group were also calling for protests outside monthly
council meetings across the province.

"The Ulster People's Forum have a consensus that those who took part as
representatives of their various areas on Saturday feel that the peaceful
protests should move to a new phase of white line protests and also localised
protests outside Council offices to coincide with monthly meetings in each
respective area.

"The UPF are keen to emphasise that they do not claim to speak for all the
protestors and whilst we as a group will move forward encouraging white line
protests we will remain supportive of anyone who wishes to exercise their
democratic right to peaceful protest in a non violent manner."

The statement added: "The protests belong to the people and the UPF will attempt
to show leadership in moving forward in a coherent and constructive way which
will benefit the entire PUL community and we as a group will continue to seek to
engage with all protestors and listen to the views of those who matter; the
ordinary people.

"The UPF feel this move to white line protests is a positive step which has been
born out of calls for leadership from the grassroots protestors and we feel that
we have the beginning of a process that will provide a strategy for moving
forward."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL tablet


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              988 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 304

LENGTH: 158  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Sukkur on Wednesday.

According to details, the Mashori community people, residents of Sobhodero
staged a protest demonstration outside the Sukkur Press Club for the recovery of
their community girl namely Salma D/o Mehar Hussain Mashori, who was abducted on
the 9th May, 2012. An elderly man namely Akbar Alman, resident of Pano Akil
staged a protest demonstration along with his two blind daughters for the
provision of financial assistance.

The activists of the Pakistan Hari Mazdoor Tehreek recorded a protest
demonstration against the environmental pollution. The residents of different
areas of Khairpur continued their protest demonstrations against the acute water
shortage, unannounced load shedding and poor sanitary system. They condemned
performance of the local authorities and demanded of the high-ups to take
immediate measures to provide them relief.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              989 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

CPM protests against HC order

BYLINE: P Sudhakaran

SECTION: KOZHIKODE

LENGTH: 175 words


KANNUR: To protest against the high court verdict which sent CPM leader M V
Jayarajan to six months of imprisonment for his controversial remarks last year,
the CPM and its youth wing DYFI organized separate protest marches in Kannur
town on Tuesday evening by covering their mouth with black cloth.

The protest marches were led by its district secretary P Jayarajan, CITU
district secretary K P Sahadevan, DYFI district president P Santhosh and
secretary A N Shamzeer. Large number of people, including women, participated in
the protest march.

Similar protest marches were organized in other parts of the district.

Meanwhile, the employees of the Pariyaram Medical College hospital (PMCH) also
conducted protest march at Pariyaram to express their solidarity to Jayarajan,
who is also the chairman of the medical college in the cooperative sector.

The court verdict is related to his allegedly humiliating remarks last year
while addressing a meeting in Kannur on the judges who banned the meetings in
public places.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              990 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

HC rejects plea seeking specific venue for protests

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea seeking
designation of a specific place outside central Delhi for holding of various
protests.

"There is a lot of confusion in your petition. On the one hand, you say that
there should be a designated place for such protests and on the other, you want
a ban on such protests in central Delhi," observed a bench of Chief Justice
Dipak Misra and Justice Sanjiv Khanna.

While directing the petitioner Abhishek Jain to withdraw his petition, HC asked,
"Why are you in a dual mind? You need to study well and file a fresh a petition
." "Don't bring politics into courts," the bench remarked .

The PIL was filed in the wake of Anna Hazare's arrest and detention of over
1,400 of his supporters after they were denied permission to hold a protest at J
P N Park in central Delhi.

The petition accused the government and the administration of adopting a
"pickand-choose" policy while granting permission to hold such protests. "There
should be a designated place for holding peaceful protests," it argued, seeking
the intervention of the court. The petition also sought a ban on "rallies in
central Delhi to avoid traffic jams or chaos" .

Referring to the denial of permission for Hazare's protest , the petitioner said
the government had violated the fundamental rights of citizens.

Meanwhile, peaceful protests by HC lawyers against Anna Hazare's arrest
continued for the second day in a row. Lawyers assembled before the court at 2pm
and opposed the arbitrary arrest, calling it illegal. The protest was organized
by Abhivyakta Parishad, an NGO.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              991 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

Albanian opposition holds peaceful anti-government protest

LENGTH: 130 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

Tirana, 4 February: The protest organized on Friday [4 February] by the united
opposition in four cities of the country, Tirana, Lezhe, Vlore and Korce, ended
peacefully and without incidents.

Protesters, who came from other towns and were led by PS [Socialist Party]
leader Edi Rama, gathered in the centre of Tirana with banner against the
government.

Opposition's protests in Lezhe, Vlore and Korce, led by the PS lawmakers of
these zones, were also peaceful.

This is the third protest staged by the opposition in 2011. The first protest,
held on January 21, ended with three victims and dozens of wounded. January 28
protest was a homage rally in honour of the three victims.

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1510 gmt 4 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              992 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday

NWFP Flour Mills Association starts protest campaign against ban on wheat
movement

LENGTH: 259 words


PESHAWAR: Pakistan Flour Mills Association NWFP Wednesday started protest
campaign against ban on supply of wheat by Punjab to flour mills of NWFP.  In
the first stage of the protest campaign, the Flour Mills Association NWFP set up
a protest camp in front of Peshawar Press Club. Large number of owners of flour
mills and workers participated in the protest camp.  Speaking on the occasion,
President of NWFP Flour Mills Association, Muhammad Sadiq alleged that ban on
supply of wheat from Punjab to flour mills of NWFP is unjustified and illegal.
He said due to such ban, the flour mill industry in NWFP has reached up to the
brink of bankruptcy.

He said most of the flour mills in NWFP are closed down due to non-availability
of wheat as a result of which the owners are suffering losses and the laborers
are facing sever difficulties due to non payment of wages.  Muhammad Sadiq said
the decision of imposing ban on supply of wheat has been taken by Punjab
government for protection of its industries, but was showing indifferent
attitude towards the flour mills of NWFP.

He demanded of the provincial government to lodge strong protest with federal
government and government of Punjab in this regard.  He also demanded lifting of
ban on movement of wheat and expressed the resolve of continuing protest till
acceptance of their demands.  Earlier, the participants of the camp staged a
protest demonstration against government of Punjab. The protesters were carrying
play cards and banners inscribed with slogans criticizing ban on movement of
wheat.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2008 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              993 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday

Slovak commentary says nationalists discredit protests over post-war decrees

LENGTH: 403 words


Text of report by Slovak privately-owned independent newspaper Sme website, on
19 April

[Commentary by Peter Morvay: "Who is protesting"]

The confirmation of the Benes Decrees [which affected the rights of Germans and
Hungarians in then Czechoslovakia after World War II] by Slovak Parliament was a
disgraceful act. Protests against it can be understood without problem. That is,
if the protesters themselves did not obstruct that understanding. Like in every
public act, this protest, too, is important because of not only the subject of
protest but also who protests. When the protest is dominated by organizations
that are characterized by similar nationalist blindness and intolerance that had
given rise to the decrees themselves (except for the opposite ethnic sign),
their protest is not only hypocritical but also counterproductive. Decent people
are right to refuse to have anything in common with it and as such, such protest
can never be effective. The only benefit for the participants is that they will
make themselves visible and, for nationalists of the other side, that the
protest will serve them to justify their own positions.

A good example of this are the protests of Hungarian nationalists in front of
Slovak embassies planned for today. The list of organizations that supported the
petition against the decrees and invited to participate in the demonstrations is
dominated by various guards, often discredited nationalist associations, rock
bands, and far-right parties.

That they consider themselves to be the true patriots changes nothing about
their character. Nationalists and extremists are always their spiritual twins on
the Slovak side. By joining them, everyone who even had honest intentions will
become smeared and rightly considered untrustworthy. However, these groups'
actions will certainly not help the victims of the post-war wrongs. The protests
will trample any possibility to solve their problems deep under the ground, from
where it may never again be possible to dig them out. And we will know this the
other way round, too. The money collected by the SNS [Slovak National Party] for
Slovaks in the Hungarian village of Mlynky will help Slota's party, but it will
be a blow in the back for the Slovak minority in the neighbouring country. Any
connection with Slota will discredit and harm them in their country of
residence.

Source: Sme website, Bratislava, in Slovak 19 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              994 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday

MMA CALL TO OBSERVE PROTEST DAY TODAY AGAINST BAJAUR INCIDENT

LENGTH: 592 words


LAHORE, ISLAMABAD, TAMER GAR, Nov 02: On the call of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal
(MMA), protest day would be observed throughout the country today (Friday)
against the Monday air strike on seminary in Bajaur agency while the process of
protest demonstration continued in various parts of the country on Thursday. As
per details, leadership of MMA appealed Ulemas and masses of the country to
observe protest day on Friday against killing of innocent students during air
bombardment on madressah in Khar, headquarter of Bajaur agency.

MMA leadership urged Ulema-e-Din to adopt resolutions against Bajaur agency
incident following Juma prayer. Protest rallies would be taken out throughout
the country following Juma prayer. Political and religious parties of Bajaur
agency have already announced vehicle jam strike on Friday and Saturday to
condemn the attack.  Meanwhile, the process of protest demonstration continued
on the fourth day of the seminary attack as all the education institutions and
business places remained closed across the NWFP including in Swat.

During the protest rallies, demonstrators burnt effigy of United States
President Gorge W. Bush and chanted slogans against the Bush administration and
Government. Addressing on the occasion, speakers said that MMA would raise the
voice against killing of innocent student outside and inside the Parliament
House and demanded to convene session of National Assembly as soon as possible
in this regard.

Likewise, on appeal of Ameer Jamaat-u-Dawah Hafiz Muhammad Saeed funeral
absentia for the martyrs of  Bajaur Agency will be offered today (Friday) across
the country.

Hafiz Saeed appealed to religious scholars to offer Ghaibana Namaz-e-Janaza
after the Jumah prayers in every Masjid throughout the country for the innocent
students who were martyred in Bajaur.

Hafiz Saeed himself will lead the Ghaibana Namaz-e-Janaza at Masjid El-Qadsia
Chuburji Lahore. Thousands are expected to attend the prayer.  Prominent leaders
from Jamaat-u-Dawah central leadership will lead Namaz-e-Janaza for the martyrs
after the Jumah prayers in different cities.  While discussing the attack with
the central leadership of Jamaat-u-Dawah, which had gathered at Masjid Al Qadsia
for that exclusive purpose, Hafiz Saeed expressed his disappointment at the
government's reaction to the attack and

termed the attack as blatant terrorism by the US.

He said the Pakistani government instead of vociferously protesting the attack
with the US was trying to take responsibility for the attack.  He said this
posture by the government is giving rise to doubts about the government's
intentions and credibility. He said such an attitude by the government would
give rise to conflict and discord in the country.

Hafiz Saeed has also appealed to the nation to display their strong Islamic
faith by attending the Namaz-e-Janaza.  Religious scholars will comment on the
Bajaur attack in their addresses to their respective Jumah congregations and
enlighten them about current security threats, which are trying to destabilize
the country.

Hafiz Saeed also questioned the silence of the United Nation and human rights
organizations about this incident and urged them to come forward and condemn
this aggression against innocent children and civilians.  He urged all the
religious and political parties of Pakistan to form a united strategy to deal
with the Bajaur Agency incident instead of addressing the issue individually.
Stressing the severity of the issue, he said it should be condemned and
addressed by the whole Muslim Ummah.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Civil Disruption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                        Copyright 2006 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              995 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Mail (SA)

                             July 23, 2000, Sunday

Aborigines secure protest site

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 112 words


SYDNEY: Aborigines have finally found a protest site for the Sydney Olympics --
but they will be miles from any Olympic venue.

After months of failed attempts by the Metropolitan Aboriginal Land Council to
obtain a site for peaceful protests near Olympic Park at Homebush Bay, the
council has secured a site at La Perouse.

It means protests by traditional Aboriginal groups will be far removed from
Olympic venues, with land councils vowing they will not protest within Olympic
Park, where protests are banned.

But land councils will still need to convince some elements of the La Perouse
Aboriginal community who oppose the protest site being located there.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SUM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited
