
                               1 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Student protests take the lead in October - Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 331  words


CAIRO, Nov 10 (Aswat Masriya) - October witnessed a rise in the rate of
protests, as 643 protests were held during the month, the majority of which were
organised by students, said Democracy Index.

The Cairo-based index released on Monday a report on the rate of protests in
October, noting a rise in the number of protests held during the month by 130
protests, compared to September.

Students took the lead with 209 protests held in October, making up 32.5 percent
of the protests held during the month. Students' top demand was releasing
detainees, a demand which 256 protests called for.

Muslim Brotherhood protests ranked second, with 204 protests held (31.7
percent). Residents' protests made up 17 percent of October's protests (108
protests), while labourers held 94 protests.

Political demands made up 66 percent of October's protests, while social demands
were called for in 34 percent of the protests. Some of the top demands called
for during the protests included: "ending the military rule" (69 protests),
condemning "terrorist" acts (54 protests) and condemning the police's
"repressive practices" (14 protests).

Protesters used 25 different types of protests, eight of which were of a violent
nature, Democracy Index said. Violent protests included: blocking roads (46
protests), disrupting officials' processions (nine protests), breaking into
institutions and blocking them (6 protests), torching public and private
properties (four protests), as well as one case of suicide and another of
attempted suicide.

The majority of October's protests were held in Cairo (151 protests), followed
by Giza (66 protests). The index owed this to the "return of the centralist
nature of the decision-making process."

The border-governorates of South Sinai and Marsa Matrouh witnessed the smallest
number of protests; one protest was held in each governorate.

Democracy Index is a research project issued by the Cairo-based International
Development Centre to monitor protests rate in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2014 Aswat Masriya
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Miadhu (Maldives)

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Police launchestwo forms of notices for protests

LENGTH: 228  words


Maldives Police Service (MPS) has launched two forms of notices for protests to
be filed 36 hours before any protest.

An announcement made in the Police website stated that Police have to be
informed of any protest 36 hours prior to the protest. The announcement added
that protest organizers have to be present in a meeting arranged by the Police
to discuss the issues regarding the protest.

Police stated that protest leaders should inform the Police of the protest via a
form and sms. In the form, details of the protest such as corresponding Police
office, full information of the protest leaders and the date, time and duration
of the protest. Additionally, the routes on which protests will take place have
to be mentioned in the form. If the protest is one that is organized by a
political party, a copy of the decision of the Party regarding the protest has
to be filed with the form.

In addition to the form, protest organizers can inform Police via sms sent to
9888899. All information in the forms must be sent in the sms.

Freedom of Assembly Act states that Police have to be notified of the protests
36 hours before the protest. The principles of the notice will be published by
the Police.

The new principles on the notice have been issued at a time when a mass rally
for this Friday had been announced. The protest is to be a sit-ing protest on
MajeedheeMagu.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Miadhu
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

Report: 2,274 labor protests staged in 2014

BYLINE: Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 359  words


Egypt saw 2,274 labor protests in 2014, according to the Mahrousa Forum for
Researches and Public Policy Studies.A report issued by the forum, affiliated to
El-Mahrousa Center for Socioeconomic Development (MCSD), showed that the first
quarter of the year including January, February and March witnessed the highest
number of protests reaching 1,420. The last quarter including October, November
and December came in second place with 318 protests. The third quarter including
July, August and September followed with 305 protests, whereas the second
quarter including April, May and June came in the last place with 231 protests.
Cairo had highest number of protests, reaching 429. Alexandria came next with
185 protests, followed by Sharqiya with 150 protests. Luxor saw the lowest
number of protests reaching 16, the report said.Factory workers staged the
highest number of demonstrations reaching 558 (25% of the total). Civil servants
came in the second place with 426 protests (19%), followed by the medical sector
with 323 protests (14%), the educational sector with 137 protests (6%) and the
textile sector with 117 protests (5%). Drivers staged 110 protests, the security
sector 94 protests, the trade and investment sector 67 protests, the agriculture
sector 64 protests, the petroleum sector 63 protests, the cleaning sector 59
protests, media professionals 47 protests, the fertilizers sector staging 45
protests, the tourism sector with 42 protests, holders of masters and PhD and
graduates staging 35 protests, lawyers holding 29, the disabled with 24, sailors
with 19 and businessmen staging 15 protests.The report showed many forms for
protesting including strikes, vigils, marches, demonstrations, sit-ins, closure
of establishments, hunger strikes, filing reports, blocking roads, detaining
officials, gathering signatures and committing suicide.Social and economic
reasons topped the demands behind the protests, the report said, mentioning
reasons like disbursing financial dues, applying minimum wage, enhancing
financial and working conditions, layoffs, increasing investments to boost the
economy and releasing detained colleagues.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                           October 15, 2014 Wednesday

Decline in protest rate in September - Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 306  words


CAIRO, Oct 15 (Aswat Masriya) - The rate of protesting declined in September,
standing at 513 protests during the month against 647 protests during August,
the Cairo-based Democracy Index said on Wednesday.

Democracy Index noted a decline in the number of protests staged by the Muslim
Brotherhood. The group, listed as a terrorist organisation last December, staged
203 (39.5 percent) protests in September, compared to 414 (64 percent) in
August; almost half the number of protests.

Most of the Muslim Brotherhood's protests were held on Friday, making up 75
percent of the group's protests throughout the month. Fridays witnessed the
largest number of protests held during the month; 153 protests were held on the
four Fridays of last September.

The number of social and economic protests meanwhile rose in September, making
up 54 percent of the protests held during the month, compared to 35 percent last
month. This came at the expense of protests calling for civil and political
rights, which made up 46 percent of the protests, as opposed to 65 percent in
August.

The most frequent form of protests in September was hunger striking. Democracy
Index reported at least 1000 cases of hunger strikes, in solidarity with a
nation-wide campaign launched in late August in protest over last year's protest
law and calling for the release of all those detained due to the law.

Cairo hosted the highest number of protests in September; 118 protests making up
23 percent of the protests held nationwide. Alexandria ranked second with 56
protests while Giza ranked third with 45 protests. The Sinai Peninsula witnessed
the smallest number of protests; one protest was held in North Sinai and another
in South Sinai.

Democracy Index is a research project issued by the Cairo-based International
Development Centre to monitor protests rate in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2014 Aswat Masriya
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           September 23, 2012 Sunday

In Pictures: AUC protest escalates

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 151 words


<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>
<dd>
AUC students' protest
Hassan Ibrahim / DNE </dd>

Following attempts by striking AUC students to lock the gates of the campus to
prevent people from entering, the university's administration elected to
completely remove the gates to allow free traffic. Later on, it closed its
campus and subsequently announced the university would suspend all operations
until further notice.

Photos by Hassan Ibrahim

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                            February 20, 2015 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

More violent protests in 2014 than any previous year - study

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words


South Africa's violent protests reached an all-time high in 2014, according to a
report by the Multilevel Government Initiative at the Community Law Centre,
released yesterday.

"Both the number of civic protests and the prevalence of violence increased in
2014," the centre said.

"In 2007 just less than half the protests were associated with some violence,
but in 2014 almost 80 percent of protests involved violence."

This was according to the Civic Protest Barometer which measures various trends
in protest action in South Africa.

"The number of protests in 2014 reached an all-time-high of 218. The previous
maximum was 204 in 2009 (which was also an election year)," the centre said.
"The increase in 2014 is only partly due to the election held on May 7. Although
April and May saw 25 and 30 protests, respectively, almost as many protests (28)
took place in August."

Between 2012 and 2014, Gauteng had more protests than any other province. Since
2007 Gauteng's share of protests had been rising more rapidly than any other
province.

Cape Town was the most protest-prone municipality, with 84 protests, followed by
Johannesburg, eThekwini, Tshwane and Ekurhuleni. These five municipalities
accounted for half of all protests recorded.

"Issues relating to municipal services and the administration of municipalities
were cited more often as the cause of protests than all other grievances put
together," it said.

"The barometer tests one hypothesis about the causes of protests, namely that it
signals a 'rebellion of the poor', against the empirical data." The barometer
covers the trends in the number of protests, geographical spread, trends in
violent civil protests and the grievances behind protests.

The Community Law Centre is based at the University of the Western Cape. - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             March 17, 2014 Monday

Irish language is for all, not just for the fluent

BYLINE: Una Mullally

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 839 words


The Irish-speaking community needs to pull itself out of the Gaeltacht, and it
is doing so at the moment. Everyone says "the Irish don't protest" as if it's a
truism. We don't really riot, but we do protest. Students protest, elderly
people protest, people protest about rights for those with disabilities, the
LGBT community protests, there have been austerity and Occupy protests, water
charge and property tax protests. Nurses protest and junior doctors protest. And
Irish speakers protest in large numbers. Last month, 10,000 people marched on
the D^oil expressing their concerns about the perceived failure of Government to
protect their linguistic rights. Unfortunately, Fine Gael has belittled the
Irish language by having spokespeople for Gaeltacht affairs who weren't even
fluent, with Dinny McGinley (whose ministerial responsibilities for Irish are
now junior ones, not senior) operating almost as an interpreter.

ConcernsThe problem that the leaders of the Irish-speaking demographic also face
is an inability to articulate their concerns in a clear manner. The resignation
of coimisinir teanga Se^on ^" Cuirre^oin, and the perceived weakening of the
Official Language Act, as well as Fine Gael's occasional kite-flying about
ending Irish as an obligatory Leaving Certificate subject, all illustrate an
apathy at Government level towards the importance of our native language. The
20-year strategy to increase the number of Irish speakers from 83,000 to 250,000
is both rudderless and toothless.

Irish speakers talk about second-class status, but there are also tiered
statuses among speakers themselves. In my experience, there has never been a
gr^o shared between the Gaeltacht and the Irish-speaking environs of Dublin,
even though Dublin has the potential to hold the key to the language's future.
Given the massive population of young people attending all-Irish speaking
schools in the greater Dublin area, there's an argument for Dublin eventually
even being the largest Gaeltacht in the State.

That said, the Gaeltacht areas aren't just about the language, but neither is
the language just about Gaeltacht areas. Yet if you want to "keep up" your Irish
in the capital, you're pretty much on your own. As someone who only became
fluent at 12 upon entering secondary school, "keeping up" my Irish is something
I have done in isolation, although such dedication has led to becoming a
presenter on TG4, an entity that has done an incredible amount to modernise,
celebrate and make visible the diversity of Irish-speaking voices in the
country.

But I remember as a teenager visiting my cousins in Spiddal and being shocked at
the students pouring out of their school speaking English. In my Irish-speaking
environment in Col^oiste ^osag^oin, between Stillorgan and Booterstown in
Dublin, if you were caught speaking English in uniform anywhere in the city
you'd be reprimanded by senior pupils, or by the hypothetical Stasi  that was
conjured up by the teaching staff, resulting in the dreaded bileog bu^K, or
"yellow sheet", signifying a meeting about your discrepancy, and a stint in
detention scraping chewing gum off the tables. Everyone spoke Irish. It became
an every-day language, a language you dreamt in. It became the subject and
product of brd, pride. We were outsiders embracing it. Whereas the insiders -
the children in Spiddal - appeared to reject it. To me that seemed to indicate a
complacency in the Gaeltacht, the paradox of the new speakers in Dublin being
more active about the language than the establishment.

My Irish isn't the best, but I try. Still, that isn't good enough. I've had
snide comments about "46A Irish", and have been in group situations where Irish
speakers switched from speaking Irish to those they were conversing with, to
speaking English to me. It's hurtful and exclusionary. And guess what? It makes
you not want to speak it.

Snobbery towards Irish is real, and so is snobbery within it. The language is
not a museum exhibit in a glass case that needs to be polished to perfection. It
is a working, living, breathing thing. And in terms of levels of fluency, the
intent to speak it - even if that means grasping for words or "Barlachas" - is
as valid as the poetic prose that flows from a native speaker.Not 'good enough'
The idea that one's Irish isn't "good enough" unless it's fluent, is unfair.
Instead of celebrating the "cpla focal" people might have, fluent Irish speakers
have a tendency to make people feel inadequate if that's all they have. There is
no sense of social acceptance if you have broken Irish, and therefore little
impetus to use what Irish you have. And if you don't use it, you lose it.

Preserving the Irish language is not just about the boundaries of Gaeltacht
areas being drawn on linguistic criteria. Our language is the foundation on
which all of our historical, cultural and traditional output has been based.
It's our language. It belongs as much to the first generation Irish-Nigerian kid
as it does to the bean an t^K in Gaoth Dobhair.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

Report: In March, Egypt had highest rate of protest worldwide

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 315 words


In a March report titled "Democracy Indicator," an Egyptian rights center said
Egypt has one of the highest rates of protest, having witnessed 1,354 protests
in March, up from 864 in February.

According to the report issued by the International Development Center, Egypt
has never seen such a high rate of protest before, not even at the peak of the
25 January revolution. In March, Egypt had 1.8 protests every hour, 7.2 protests
every four hours, 44 protests a day and 306 protests a week.

Forty different categories of people staged protests. People with no political
affiliations staged 309 protests, while activists came in second, with 190
protests. The security sector occupied the third rank, with 173 protests
throughout the month.

Demonstrations over labor rights accounted for the most protests, while the fuel
crisis triggered 112 protests. Seventy-three protests were staged to call for
bringing down the regime, and 25 to oppose the "Brotherhoodization" of state
institutions.

Six protests called for civil disobedience, three opposed visits conducted by
the president or Freedom and Justice Party members, and three called for the
army to intervene in politics over dissatisfaction with the management of
political affairs.

Concerning the geography of protests, Cairo, Gharbiya, Sharqiya, Alexandria and
Kafr al-Sheikh staged the most. The report also cites an increasing number of
demonstrations in Upper Egyptian and Bedouin governorates.

The report states that the rate of violent protests has increased. Regular
protests account for slightly more than a quarter of all protests staged, while
road blocking was the second most used form of protest, accounting for 18.24
percent of all protests.

The report says it "is a disgrace that the security apparatus used the most
violence against establishments in protests, closing police stations, damaging
buildings and blocking roads."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2013 Egypt Independent
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday

Democracy Index: Detentions by Egyptian authorities, terrorist incidents
increased in the first quarter of 2015

BYLINE: Egypt Independent,Mai Mohsen

LENGTH: 357  words


According to the report issued on Saturday by Democracy Index, affiliated with
the Cairo-based International Development Center (IDC), both the the amount of
detentions by Egyprian authorities and the number of terrorist incidents have
increased in the first quarter of 2015. The report also mentioned a rise in
labor protests, as well as violent incidents at colleges and schools.According
to the report, 1,353 protests took place in the first three months of 2015, 40
percent of which were related to economic and social demands.526 protests
occurred in January, 401 in March, and 390 in February, the report
mentioned.Muslim Brotherhood supporters staged 552 protests, whereas laborers,
business owners and craftsmen staged 323 protests. At the same time, school and
university students staged 183 protests .Labourers organized 81 protests,
followed by teachers with 36 protests, medical workers with 35 protests, drivers
with 27 protests, bread distrutors with 17 protests, university staff with 15
protests, farmers with 12 protests, lawyers with 12 protests, Endowments
Ministry workers with 9 protests, journalists with 8 protests, the security
sector with 4 protests, and finally the judges with one protest regiustered, by
the end of March.University graduates and job applicants staged 29 protests,
while 22 demonstrations were organized by political activists. In addition, 29
protests have been staged by people with disabilities, and 8 gatherings by
representatives of the Coptic community.The most prominent demands included
Muslim Brotherhood's calls to release prisoners, as well as demands to abolish
military tribunals for civilians, and protests against restricting freedoms and
against violence against civilians, such as the Air Defense Stadium incident or
toture at police stations.Social demands included job opportunities, improving
work conditions, demands to provide gas cylinders and housing, and protests
against raising tuition fees.The report pointed out that the rate of social and
economic demands was higher compared to 2014, where those demands represented
between 20 and 30 percent of the protester's calls..

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            December 31, 2012 Monday

A Year in Review: Strikes and civil disobedience

BYLINE: Liliana Mihaila

LENGTH: 164 words


There have been over 100 incidents of industrial action in January, 2012. That
includes protests, sit-ins and strikes, held mainly by farmers and labourers.

The count for February was 92. This month also witnessed an attempt at civil
disobedience.

In March, there were around 70 protests, strikes or sit-ins.

A reported number of 270 protests in April.  This includes political protests,
industrial action and student protests.

There was a total number of protests held in May was 206.

In June  157 protests were reported.

In July, numbers exceeded 500 with 566 protests.

In August the number dropped to 410.

The number of protests rose again in September, with the start of the new
academic year, to 615.

There were a total of 507 protests in October.

November witnessed over 300 protests.

There have been at least seven protests in December in addition to another
attempt at civil disobedience.

Figures provided by Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social Rights (ECESR) and
Revolutionary Socialists.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Report: Factory, public sector workers at forefront of labor protests

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 250  words


The El-Mahrousa Center for Socioeconomic Development has monitored 385 labor
protests in the second quarter of 2015, with protests of workers of private
factories and public sector companies at the forefront.In a report issued on
Wednesday, the center said the companies that have witnessed the most protests
were Hassan Allam Contracting, Simo Paper Mills, The Egyptian-Indian Company,
Kiriazi, Bishay Steel, The Crescent and Star Company, Ezz Steel, Verdi Ceramics
and Arab Contractors.It said there were 68 protests by public sector workers,
including workers of the Endowments Ministry in Sharqiya and Alexandria, The
National Council on Disability and the AgricultureMinistry.The medical sector of
hospitals, health centers, the ambulance service, pharmacists, doctors and
nurses came in third place with 30 protests, followed by the education sector
and private universities with 20 protests and the media and journalists with 19
protests, including the Al-Shorouk newspaper, the CBC channel, the Radio and
Television Union and the Media Production City.Temporary laborers of different
sectors staged 15 protests, followed by the agricultural sector with 13
protests, the public transport sector with 11 protests, the sports sector with
10 protests, the textile sector with nine protests, mosque imams with eight
protests, holders of M.A. and Ph.D. degrees with seven protests, NGOs and
lawyers with six protests and the tourism sector with five protests.Edited
translation from Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   Bikya News

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

Egypt tops countries in protest

LENGTH: 209  words


CAIRO: An Egyptian rights center issued a report on Monday stating that Egypt
has become the top country in the world in terms of the number of protests.

The "Democracy Index" monthly report issued by the International Center for
Development states that there were 1,345 protests in March compared to 864
protests in February.

"This is an unprecedented number of protests that did not occur even during the
January uprising as March witnessed an average of 1.8 demonstration every hour,
7.2 on a daily basis and 306 protests per week," said the report.

The report added that more than 40 percent of Egyptians from diverse backgrounds
contribute to protests, mostly citizens with no political affiliations.

Violation of workers' rights stood as the main reason behind protesting, whereas
the fuel crisis caused 112 protests and 73 protests were against Egypt's
government.

Twenty-five protests were staged against the "Brotherhoodization" of state
institutions and six protests called for civil disobedience.

The report monitored that protests are growing in number in Upper Egypt and
Bedouin governorates.

"Violence in protests rose up by 25.41 percent," the report said, noting that
cutting off roads is the second largest means of protest used during this month.

BN

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 876


                           Copyright 2013 Bikya News
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Democracy Index: 643 protests in October

BYLINE: Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 426  words


The latest report by the Egypt-based International Development Center's
Democracy Index revealed that 643 protests, with average of 21 protests daily
and one protest every hour, have took place in October, marking an increase of
130 demonstrations in September, which saw 513 protests.August saw 647 protests,
according to Democracy Index's earlier report.Released on Monday, the index's
report showed that students topped the protesting categories with 209 protests
(32.5 percent of the total demonstrations in October). Supporters of the Muslim
Brotherhood came next with 204 protests (31.7 percent). Protests from the
general public followed with 108 protests (17 percent). Twelve other categories
followed, with 94 protests for work rights, then political activists with ten
protests, pensioners with four protests and finally three protests demanding
rights for disabled people.Sixty-six percent of the protests voiced civilian and
political demands, 256 protests, mainly staged by students, demanded release of
the detainees. Sixty-nine protests focused on ending military rule. Another 54
protests condemned terrorist operations.

Citizens also staged 14 protests against police practices, 12 of which were
against killing of a student and citizen by police.Social and economic demands
made up 34 percent of October's protests. The demands included the workplace
atmosphere, rights to education and rights to housing, facilities and services.
The demands also reflected problems of farmers and the physically-disabled.
Protests between January 2013 and October 2014, according to the Index report,
showed that absence of the transitional justice in Egypt has come in the first
place during the post-January 2011 period.Demonstrations were staged in 25
forms, 17 of which were peaceful, while eight were violent. The protest means
included vigils, protests, strikes and human shields. The most developed form of
protesting was the 'Their feast in prison' campaign staged by activists
demanding release of the detainees. The campaign was the most effective in 2014,
reflecting activists fear actions against them.However, the violent form
included blocking roads, intercepting an official's procession, breaking into
government buildings, setting fire to public and private properties and suicide.
Protests occurred in 26 governorates. Cairo came the first in number of
protests, then Giza, then Alexandria, Sharqiya, Daqahliya, Menoufia and Kafr
al-Sheikh. The lowest number of protests was seen in South Sinai and Marsa
Matrouh with one protest in each.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Germany: '6,000 police deployed' for Erdogan visit

LENGTH: 369 words


Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

Turkish Prime Minister's visit and speech to go ahead amid protests across
Cologne

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2014 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                            June 15, 2016 Wednesday

Labour issues top reason for protests

BYLINE: Poppy Louw

SECTION: LABOUR

LENGTH: 298 words


NEARLY half of protests that took place in South Africa between 1997 and 2013
were labour-related.
 This is according to a report based on police data, launched by the University
of Johannesburg's social change research unit yesterday.


 The report, Counting Police-Recorded Protests, estimates there were about 70
000 police-recorded protests over the past 17 years - equating to an average of
11 protests per day.
 Labour protests were the most common (46%), followed by community-based
protests including service delivery (22.1%) - a higher portion of which were
categorised as disorderly.
 Xenophobia-related protests occurred the least (less than 1%).
 Gauteng had the highest number of protests (14 229), followed by Eastern Cape
(10251), North West (8 881) and Western Cape (8 796).
 Protests were categorised as violent when a person was injured or property was
damaged, while disruptive protests were those where there was only disruption
with no injury or damage to property.
 However, the Institute for Security Studies' Lizette Lancester said the
likelihood of events erupting from "pure order to absolute chaos" were very
rare.
 A large portion (80%) of protests in the period were considered peaceful, with
violent and disruptive protests each being 10%.
 "Our communities are increasingly frustrated by a lack of service delivery and
other issues," Lancester added.
 There was a peak in overall protests in 2012 (an average 15 per day), compared
to 2004, which had the lowest number (an average of seven per day).
 Professor Peter Alexander said the lack of democracy and service delivery was a
cause for concern. "Those in power have to do more listening to help avoid
protests. When people say they are short of electricity, then provide
electricity - and provide the right service."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                              April 1, 2013 Monday

Egypt ranks as top country in protests - rights center

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 209  words


An Egyptian rights center issued a report on Monday stating that Egypt has
become the top country in the world in terms of the number of protests.

The "Democracy Index" monthly report issued by International Center for
Development states that there were 1345 protests in March compared to 864
protests in February.

"This is an unprecedented number of protests that did not occur even during the
January uprising as March witnessed an average of 1.8 demonstration every hour,
7.2 on a daily basis and 306 protests per week," said the report.

The reported added that more than 40 percent of Egyptians from diverse
backgrounds contribute to protests, mostly citizens with no political
affiliations.

Violation of workers' rights stood as the main reason behind protesting, whereas
the fuel crisis caused 112 protests and 73 protests were against Egypt's ruling
authorities.

Twenty-five protests were staged against the "Brotherhoodization" of state
institutions and six protests called for civil disobedience.

The report monitored that protests are growing in number in Upper Egypt and
Bedouin governorates.

"Violence in protests rose up by 25.41 percent," the reported said, noting that
cutting off roads is the second largest means of protest used during this month.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2013 Aswat Masriya
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                            June 15, 2016 Wednesday

Strikes are kings of protest

BYLINE: Poppy Louw

SECTION: LABOUR

LENGTH: 419 words


Country has had 11 incidents a day over past 17 years
  Those in power have to do more listening to help dispel the anger
 NEARLY half of the protests that took place in South Africa between 1997 and
2013 were labour-related.


 This is according to a report released by the University of Johannesburg's
social change research unit yesterday.
 The report estimates there have been about 70000 police-reportedprotests over
the past 17 years - equalling an average of 11 protests per day.
 Data collected in the research are supposed to be the largest amount of police
information collected in the world.
 Labour protests were found to be the most common (46%), followed by
community-based protests, including service delivery protests (22.1%) - a higher
portion of which were categorised as disorderly.
 Although there was evidence suggesting xenophobia-related protests were
becoming an increasing problem, these occurred the least, at less than 1%.
 Gauteng had the highest number of protests (14229), followed by the Eastern
Cape (10251), North West (8881) and Western Cape (8796).
  Northern Cape had the highest number of labour and community protests per
capita, whereas KwaZulu-Natal had the lowest incidence of labour protests and
Limpopo the lowest rate of community protests.
 The rate of community protests has been higher than other kinds of protests
since 2005 and higher numbers of violent community protests were recorded
between 2005 and 2011 than disruptive ones.
 Protests were categorised as violent when a person was injured or property was
damaged. Disruptive protests were those that resulted in no injury or damage to
property.
 Lizette Lancester, of the Institute for Security Studies, said the likelihood
of events erupting from "pure order to absolute chaos" was very rare.
 A large portion (80%) of protests in the period were considered peaceful, with
violent and disruptive protests each scoring 10%.
 "Our communities are incredibly patient, but are increasingly frustrated by a
lack of service delivery and other issues of marginalisation," Lancester added.
 There was a peak in overall protests in 2012 (an average 15 per day) compared
with 2004, which had the lowest number of protests (an average seven per day).
 Professor Peter Alexander said the lack of democracy and service delivery in
South Africa was a cause for concern.
 "Those in power have to do more listening to help avoid protests. When people
say they are short of electricity, then provide electricity - and provide the
right service."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2016 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

TTN

SECTION: LEARNING; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 408 words


WHAT'S MAKING NEWS

Today at 11.30am on digital station TDT.

Types of protests

WHEN we watch or read news we sometimes witness violent protests or campaigns
taking place around the world. People taking part in such protests are often
called activists. They are protesting to draw attention to an issue and to have
their voice heard.

Activism is taking action to bring about social or political change. It's often
associated with protest, but activism can take many forms. A protest may involve
letter writing, donating money, boycotting an organisation, blogging, or
activism, a form of online activism.

We live in a democracy and we have a right to protest and have our voice heard
-- such as student protests, political protests or animal rights protests. Right
to protest is protected by the Australian Constitution. Activist groups may take
direct action to influence public opinion or political policy. Greenpeace has
used this method in its protests against whaling. ttn takes a looks at some
recent protests from around the world including South Korea and the US.

DISCUSSION: Choose five causes and outline the most effective way to protest for
each. Give reasons for your answers.

ACTIVITY: Get involved with blogging and have your say online.

Handy hydrogen

STUDENTS around the globe have joined international experts in learning about
alternative energy. They've been creating clean green energy from hydrogen.
Hydrogen is the most common element in the universe. It's found in plants, food
and even our bodies -- 70 per cent of the human body is made up of water, which
is produced from hydrogen and oxygen.

Every molecule of water has two atoms of hydrogen for every atom of oxygen --
which is why it's called H2O. On its own, hydrogen is highly flammable.

The gas has been in the spotlight this month at the World Hydrogen Energy
Conference in Brisbane. Students around the world have learnt to create Hydrogen
energy using a process called electrolysis. An electric current is put into the
water to separate the hydrogen and oxygen molecules. Then the two gases are put
back together again -- creating energy and water. This called an exothermic
reaction -- which means a reaction that produces energy.

DISCUSSION: What alternate energy sources do you use in your life?

ACTIVITY: Identify three reasons why hydrogen run cars could be better for the
environment.V

isit www.news.com.au/ttn for more activities and catch ttn updates in Totally
Wild on TDT.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Democracy Index: 226 student protests occurred in November

BYLINE: Mai Mohsen

LENGTH: 384  words


As anti-regime protests by university students continued on campuses, the
Democracy Index, affiliatedo the Cairo-based organisation the International
Development Center (IDC), reported Friday that 226 student protests occurred in
November, with Al-Azhar students in the foreground. More than 270 students were
arrested in November, and 280 were referred to prosecution.

There have been 70 violent incidents on campuses, 34 of which were for violent
dispersal of protests by the security forces. Eighteen clashes took place
between the security and protesting students, according to Democracy Index.

There were 6 court rulings against protesting students and one in their favor in
November.

November students protests recorded an increase compared to October where 209
protests took place.

Al-Azhar University students came in the lead with 52 protests, followed by
Alexandria University students with 33 protests.

Forms of protests varied between peaceful and that which turned to violence.
Students staged 78 marches, 98 protests and demonstrations, and 7 human chains.

Twelve cases of blocking roads were recorded and 5 cases of strike.

Some students expressed their political views through art exhibitions and
theatrical performances.

One and forty eight protests demanded the release of detained students. Twenty
seven protests deprecated former President Hosni Mubarak acquittal, and 15
protests were commemorating the victims of Mohamed Mahmoud Street clashes.

Two hundred and eighty students were referred to interrogation and 265 were
dismissed from college.

About 140 students were sacked last year and reinstated to Al-Azhar University
upon a court order in November.

More than 270 students were arrested in November. The strangest incidents were
for a student who was arrested at Cairo University while possessing a novel
about despotic military regimes, and another who possessed a pin that read
"Tomorrow your triumph shall be," according to Democracy Index.

Eleven faculty members were suspended from work, 6 were referred to
interrogation, and 10 others were arrested in different universities over
charges of belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood.

Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagazig Tarek al-Berembly
was among those sacked over belonging to the Muslim Brotherhood organization.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 20, 2013 Wednesday

Protest mood in Ukraine rises, research shows

LENGTH: 283 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 20 March: The Centre for Research into Society NGO has said that 2012 saw
a record high of protests (3,636), according to the data of monitoring since
2009.

"The number of protests rose by 60 per cent compared with 2011. The peaks of
protests were in July (407) and October (446) last year. However, in some months
the number of protests also exceeded the peaks of past years," the head of the
department for research into social protests at the Centre for Research into
Society, Volodymyr Ishchenko, told a news conference in Kiev on Wednesday [20
March].

According to him, the protest mood of Ukrainians remained rather high in
January-February 2013. Twice as many protests were registered in February 2012
than in 2011 and 2012.

At the same time, the absolute number of protests rose in almost all Ukrainian
regions. The growth in 2012 protests was mainly due to political rallies linked
to the parliamentary election. At the same time, socio-economic issues were
often raised during the protests for the third year in a row (43 per cent of
protests in 2012).

In 2012 the Centre for Research into Society registered a rise in the turnout of
parties and individual politicians (up to 35 per cent) at the protests. At the
same time, they increasingly ignored the socio-economic problems of Ukrainians.

In 2012 every one in 10 protests was held by "unknown groups". In addition, they
registered a rise in confrontation (18 per cent) and violent protests (10 per
cent). One in 10 protests was violent. But the overwhelming majority of protests
remained peaceful (72 per cent in 2012).

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1212 gmt 20 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday
                         Examiner First Edition Edition

Protests to provide inspiration

BYLINE: MARY MACHEN Arts reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 375 words


THE history of protest in Tasmania is the basis for a collaborative dance and
sound project taking shape now with expectation of it being performed when
Junction Arts Festival comes around again next year.

During Junction this week, the artists involved are seeking contact with anyone
on either side of a protest to share their story.

Devised by choreographer Liesel Zink, of Brisbane, in collaboration with sound
artist Mike Willmett, The Stance will explore the history of protest in Tasmania
and "collective action through observing crowd movement, behaviour, gesture and
form and formation".

Zink and Willmett are in Tasmania researching protests and seeking to record
personal stories in relation to each protest they select for performance
purposes.

"We're also looking at the relevance of protest now and how effectively protest
can create change," Zink said.

"This week we have been talking to activists involved in protest, and not all
from the same side, with a focus on the physicality of protest, group behaviour
and also the power of peaceful protest."

Zink envisages their findings will inspire a series of podcasts and audio bites
that will be developed into a full performance to be presented in a public space
in Launceston next September with the assistance of Tasmania's Mature Artist
Dance Ensemble.

The podcasts will be broadcast live at QVMAG Royal Park as part of Junction this
Saturday, September 5, at 11am. Entry is free.

" MADE, which is based in Hobart, is in Launceston also this week to present its
own work, Abandoned Dances, as a Junction highlight on September 4 and 5 at 7pm.

This work explores how memory influences and manages our existence. The
45-minute work promises to unravel the "insular reality of a woman caught in a
perpetual cycle of her own actions".

It will be at the round house, entry via showgrounds gate 1, Forster Street,
Invermay. Tickets are $15.

FACT FILE

For a full festival program and to buy tickets, visit
www.junctionartsfestival.com.au. Tickets can also be bought from the Junction
ticket HQ, 63A Brisbane Street, open daily until September 5, from 9am until
6pm, and September 6, 9am to noon. Tickets will be available to buy (cash only)
at show venues 45 minutes before start time unless sold out.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Year in review 2013 - Workers hold 2,486 protests

BYLINE: Fady Ashraf

LENGTH: 337 words


//

Workers of the National company "Delta for Sugar" protest in front of the
journalists syndicate .
(Photo by: Hassan Ibrahim)

Egyptian workers held 2,486 protests in 2013, 2,243 of which took place during
the reign of ousted former President Mohamed Morsi. A total of 243 protests were
held under the military-backed interim government.

An average of 6.1 worker protests took place each day during the year. This was
down from the total in 2012 when the number of demonstrations reached 3,300. The
overall number of protests in 2013 topped that of 2011 when 1,300 protests took
place.

January, February and March saw 278, 424 and 396 protests, respectively.

April registered the highest number of demonstrations for the year with 448.

During Morsi's last month in office 288 protests took place. That total dropped
sharply to 46 immediately after his removal from power.

The number of protests rose slightly in August to 55, but declined in September
to only 45.

A sharp decline was witnessed in October, with only 25 protests held.

November registered the highest number of protests after Morsi's ousting with 61
taking place during the month. Only 11 protests were recorded in December.

Workers held 912 demonstrations and marches in their protests, 36.6% of those
recorded in 2013.

Strikes were the second most common with 558 strikes, or 22.4% of the total.

Workers held 373 sit-ins, accounting for 14.9% of the year's protests, while 85
cases of hunger strikes were recorded in 2013.

There was a total of 10 protest-related suicide attempts during the year, only
one of which was successful. A worker in the customs department of Port Said
killed himself while demonstrating for increasing wages.

*Figures were provided by the Egyptian Center for Social and Economic Rights
(ECESR)

Check Daily News Egypt's review of the year

Related posts:

A Year in Review: The Egyptian revolutionaries' wish list for a Ministry of
Interior revamp

Egypt's 2013 foreign affairs - a year of contrasts

Escalating violence at Egypt's universities in 2013

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

'Labour protests drop by 49% in first six months of 2014'

LENGTH: 398  words


The number of labour protests in the Kingdom witnessed a 49 per cent drop in the
first half of this year compared to the same period last year, according to a
report released this week.


A total of 302 labour protests were organised in the first six months of this
year, compared with 597 protests in the first half of 2013.
The report, issued by the Phenix Centre for Economic and Informatics Studies and
prepared in cooperation with the German Friedrich-Ebert Stiftung (FES), said 134
protests (44.3 per cent of the total) were organised by private sector
employees, after public sector employees had dominated protests in the past
three years.
Strikes comprised 61.3 per cent of the total number of labour protests; sit-ins
followed with 24.5 per cent. Threats to organise protests were 11.2 per cent of
the total, according to the report.
Meanwhile, self-harm, suicide and suicide threats for reasons related to work
stood at 3 per cent.
Phenix Centre Director Ahmad Awad said the drop in the number of protests this
year is due to many factors, including not achieving the targets and objectives
of the protests organised in the previous years.
Another reason for the drop is related to "government pressure" on labour unions
and leadership, he added, noting that several protests were dispersed by
security forces.
Low wages topped the reasons for organising protests in the January-June period,
with 116 (38 per cent) protests organised to call for higher salaries.
Protests against laws and regulations governing work-related issues came second
(24.8 per cent), while (13.6 per cent) of the protests were held to demand job
opportunities.
Awad said it is normal to have the majority of protests organised to demand
higher salaries as low wages are among the main challenges the local labour
market suffers from. He noted that salaries of approximately two-thirds of
labourers in Jordan are under the poverty line.
In its recommendations, the report called for reviewing wage levels in both the
private and public sectors and linking them to the inflation rate.
It also suggested revisiting the minimum wage, currently set at JD190.
The report called for amending Article 31 of the Labour Law, which allows
employers to implement collective layoffs, with the labour minister's approval,
in the case of economic or technical difficulties or changes at the company.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday

Liberal arts college team is "shadow leader" of protests in Croatia - daily

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report by Bosnian edition of Croatian daily Vecernji list, on 8 March

[Report by pmz/VLM: "Government Toppling Continues - Kapovic: If Pernar Cares
About Protests, He Should Withdraw"]

The message on protest banners "We Do Not Need Leaders To Make Decisions" has
become the main idea of the current anti-government protests

As [anti-government] protests continue, it has become clear that its
protagonists can no longer be called the Facebookers and that Ivan Pernar, the
self-proclaimed leader of the protests, cannot be considered leader. The latest
two out of the total of seven protests held in Zagreb have shown that the banner
"We Do Not Need Leaders To Make Decisions" has become the main idea of the
disgruntled crowd. And the authors of the banners - an experienced team from the
Liberal Arts College - have actually become the "shadow leaders" of the current
protests in spite of their reiteration that they are not and do not want to be
leaders.

Mate Kapovic, assistant professor at the Liberal Arts College and active
protester, says that it is true that students have experience and that they are
capable of actively participating in the protests. However, not as leaders
because these protests are the people's protests, as he put it.

"They tried to recruit me but I refused. I neither want to be a leader nor do
these protests require one. Pernar should also withdraw if he cares about the
protests. This way, he is only doing harm," Kapovic says.

Furthermore, it is his contention that the protests would be even more
successful if they were shorter.

Source: Vecernji list (Bosnia-Hercegovina edition), Zagreb, in Croatian 8 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Essex Chronicle

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

Protesters march in defence of Baldock

BYLINE: Michael Havis michael.havis@hertsessexnews.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:POLITICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 378  words


HUNDREDS turned out to protest during a march opposing council plans for
thousands of homes in the green belt.

The demonstration on Saturday, organised by campaign group Save Rural Baldock,
left Simpson Drive at noon led by  North East Hertfordshire MP Sir Oliver Heald.

Preferred sites for housing have been identified in a draft district plan by
North Herts District Council (NHDC), with Baldock set to take 3,500 homes.

An estimate from the organisers suggested at least 500 people joined the march,
with many marchers chanting "Save rural Baldock" as they proceeded.

Albert Sillwood, of Save Rural Baldock, said: "This is a nice small community.
It's a country town and if you start bringing in all the extra houses, that will
spoil it. It would be horrendous at the Whitehorse traffic lights because of all
of the traffic.

"It will be back to the days before the bypass was built. Also, with extra
houses, the doctors' surgeries won't be able to cope and the sewage system,
which is overloaded at the moment, will have to be improved."

Speaking to the Mercury, Sir Oliver said the district should approach housing in
two phases, using existing brownfield sites in the first ten years and building
a new garden city in the second.

He said: "I'm against the proposal for the north east of Baldock, it is too big
and in the wrong place.  The purpose of green belt   is to avoid urban sprawl,
this   plan would mean another settlement the size of Baldock, right next to
Baldock.

"In our area we are the home of the world's first garden city and our plan
should have a bit of vision. People come from all over the world to see how to
really build a garden city well. Why can't we build one?"

Councillor David Levett, portfolio holder for planning and enterprise at NHDC,
said: "We appreciate residents' concerns about the preferred options plan and
the sensitivity of building   on green belt.

"We do, however, need to plan for additional homes to meet the needs of local
families.

"We would like to reassure residents that if this particular potential
development goes ahead it would have a masterplan in place, which would include
all the appropriate infrastructure."

A consultation on the plan - which allocates sites for 14,200 homes between 2011
and 2031 - ends on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 31/01/15 Baldock protest march
Marchers take to the streets of Baldock to protest the NHDC local plan. Oliver
Heald MP (right with flatcap) joins protesters on the march. .Pic: Vikki Lince
BANNER BONANZA: Many demonstrators held signs with a message
NEVER TOO YOUNG: This little activist has started protesting early
SOLIDARITY: A bit of snow wasn't enough to deter the marchers
31/01/15 Baldock protest march
Marchers take to the streets of Baldock to protest the NHDC local plan..Pic:
Vikki Lince
31/01/15 Baldock protest march
Marchers take to the streets of Baldock to protest the NHDC local plan. Bella
with her protest sign. .Pic: Vikki Lince
WHAT ABOUT US? The younger generation had plenty to say as well
THROUGH WIND AND SNOW: Waterproof coats were essential
31/01/15 Baldock protest march
Marchers take to the streets of Baldock to protest the NHDC local plan. Oliver
Heald MP joins protesters on the march. .Pic: Vikki Lince
31/01/15 Baldock protest march
Marchers take to the streets of Baldock to protest the NHDC local plan. Doug the
Pug braves the snow to protest. .Pic: Vikki Lince

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           September 30, 2012 Sunday

NC won't protest for PM's berth, says Sujata

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: BIRATNAGAR


BIRATNAGAR, Sept. 30 -- Nepali Congress central member Sujata Koirala has said
that her party will not stage protest s for the prime minister's post.

"I don't think that people will participate in the protest s simply to make some
a prime minister," said Sujata talking to reporters in Biratnagar on Sunday.

She said the announcement of protest alone will not make any difference. She
added that the protest s called at time when the parties should strive to forge
consensus will rather become unsuccessful.

Sujata remarked that the NC's collaboration with the Mohan Baidhya-led
CPN-Maoist for the protest is shameful.

She was of the view that party cadres and citizens were also not in favor of
staging protest s at the moment. "Staging protest at this stage of the country
will not give a good message to the country," she said. She said that the issue
of staging protest was also not raised in the party's CC meeting.

"CC meeting should discuss first. I have no idea about such protest programmes.
As it is not the official decision of the party, let's forge agreement and not
the protest ," said the NC CC member.

Sujata said that NC should put forth the name of PM candidate instead of staging
protest against the government. "I guarantee that Prime Minister Baburam
Bhattarai will tender his resignation once the NC decides the candidate. Not
only NC but also the CPN-UML will not be unable to forward the name of the PM
candidate," said the NC leader.

She further said that the president should take step to pick a prime ministerial
candidate for the consensus government. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                           November 11, 2014 Tuesday

FORGET PROTESTS;
Only 12% Russians are prepared to put forth economic demands

BYLINE: Maxim Ivanov, Sergei Goryashko

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 1207

LENGTH: 273 words



HIGHLIGHT: POLLSTERS: MORE RUSSIANS ARE PREPARED TO PROTEST AGAINST
DETERIORATING LIVING STANDARDS THAN TO PUT FORTH POLITICAL DEMANDS; Results of
opinion polls indicate...


According to the Levada-Center, the Russians prepared to protest against
deteriorating living standards outnumber those ready to put forth political
demands. Even the former are a minority. Opinion polls show that only 12%
Russians are prepared to participate in economic protests. Experts point out
that there are no "proliferation of protests" traditions in Russia... and that
deterioration of relations with the international community makes it harder for
the Russians to seek within Russia itself those guilty of the existence of
social problems.

Levada-Center pollsters discovered that 12% respondents view protest rallies
with political demands a distinct possibility these days. Eight percent are
"probably" ready to join these protests.

"People lack the desire to join protests at this point. They say almost
invariably that the time is wrong for protests," Levada-Center Assistant
Director Alexei Grashdankin said. "In fact, the Maidan in Kiev changed the
Russians' attitude towards protests. The Russians are mostly worried about the
armed conflict in Ukraine these days. Fear of war drives away all other fears."

As for protests with socioeconomic demands, 17% Russians consider them possible
and 12% are ready to participate.

"Few people see those guilty of the deteriorating situation right here, in
Russia. In fact, few people even try to look for them here. The Russians do not
know who to protest against. Organizing protests to condemn [U.S. President
Barack Obama is nonsense, isn't it?" to quote Alexander Shershukov, Secretary of
the Federation of Independent Trade Unions.

Source: Kommersant, No 203, November 11, 2014, p. 2

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

The art of protest

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


AN artist is playing her part in an exhibition about protests.

Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the exhibitors at the Art of Protest
exhibition in Manchester.

Her work is entitled Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made
from threads. The Art of Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank,
Manchester until June 3

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece right

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece. AN artist is playing her part in
an exhibition about protests. Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the
exhibitors at the Art of Protest exhibition in Manchester. Her work is entitled
Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made from threads. The Art of
Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank, Manchester until June 3

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

The art of protest

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


AN artist is playing her part in an exhibition about protests.

Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the exhibitors at the Art of Protest
exhibition in Manchester.

Her work is entitled Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made
from threads. The Art of Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank,
Manchester until June 3

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece right

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece. AN artist is playing her part in
an exhibition about protests. Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the
exhibitors at the Art of Protest exhibition in Manchester. Her work is entitled
Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made from threads. The Art of
Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank, Manchester until June 3

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

The art of protest

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


AN artist is playing her part in an exhibition about protests.

Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the exhibitors at the Art of Protest
exhibition in Manchester.

Her work is entitled Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made
from threads. The Art of Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank,
Manchester until June 3

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece right

PROTEST ART Part of Stephanie Gunn's art piece. AN artist is playing her part in
an exhibition about protests. Stephanie Gunn, from Royton, is among the
exhibitors at the Art of Protest exhibition in Manchester. Her work is entitled
Our World Needs You an eye-catching protest banner made from threads. The Art of
Protest runs at the People's History Museum, Left Bank, Manchester until June 3

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

Almost one protest per hour in August: Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 457  words


CAIRO, Sept 13 (Aswat Masriya) - August witnessed 647 protests, at the rate of
one protest per hour, according to a report released by Democracy Index on
Saturday.

The highest rate of protests was reported on August 14, which marks the first
anniversary of the deadly dispersal of two pro-Mohamed Mursi camps last August,
said Democracy Index. Eighty-three protests were reported on that day, as well
as 61 protests on Friday, August 15.

The dispersals left hundreds killed and were described by international watchdog
Human Rights Watch as "the most serious incident of mass unlawful killings in
modern Egyptian history."

Political and civilian demands ranked highest as the cause for protest in
August, representing 65 percent of the protests held.

The Muslim Brotherhood organised the highest number of protests; 414 protests,
making up 63.98 percent of the protests held throughout the month.Three-hundred
and seventy protests were held against "military rule" and calling for Mursi's
reinstatement, according to the report. The Brotherhood also organised 12
protests condemning Israel's latest aggression on the Gaza strip, as well as
protesting the power outages and price hikes.

Thirty-five percent of the protests held in August called for economic and
social rights. Residents held 70 protests, while activists organised seven
protests. The month saw 43 protests calling for financial rights, 34
demonstrations protesting power cuts and 10 protesting price hikes.

Student activity returned to Egypt's streets with 19 student protests held in
August, Democracy Index said. Four protests called for reversing the expulsion
of university students.

The majority of the protests, 17 percent, were held in the capital. The
governorate of Sharqiya ranked second with 12 percent and Giza ranked third with
9 percent. The lowest number of protests was recorded in the border governorates
of Marsa Matrouh, North Sinai and South Sinai.

August saw 269 protest marches, 33 strikes and 15 sit-ins, Democracy Index
reported. The most frequent violent form of protest was blocking roads, with 94
cases reported. The Cairo-based index also reported 12 cases of hunger strikes
and 10 cases of torching public and private properties.

The Freedom for the Brave, a movement calling for the release of those detained
pending politically-motivated charges, announced on Sunday a gradual hunger
strike campaign demanding the release of detainees held under protest law
charges.

The announcement comes amid an ongoing hunger strike campaign, gaining momentum
by the day, with over 100 already on hunger strike inside and outside prisons.

Democracy Index is a research project issued by the Cairo-based International
Development Centre to monitor protests rate in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2014 Aswat Masriya
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Democracy Index: protests surged by 10 percent in November

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 314  words


Egypt witnessed 714 protests in November up from 643 in October, a surge of 10
percent from the previous month, said a report by the Cairo-based International
Development Center.Out of that number, 64 of those protests were triggered by
the acquittal of former president Hosni Mubarak and his regime figures of
charges of murder and financial corruption, according to the center's Democracy
Index.Fridays were the most active protest days, said the report. Friday the
28th saw the highest number of demonstrations of that month with 92 protests.
Sunday the 30th, one day following Mubarak's exoneration, saw 42 protests.
Students staged most protests in November with 226 events, according to the
index.

They were followed by members of the Muslim Brotherhood with 225 protests.
Students as well as Brotherhood backers, therefore, make up 63 percent of
November's protest activities, the index revealed.Labor protests stood at 111
during that month.Cairo came on top of the governorates with the highest number
of protests, 175, followed by Alexandria, 87, and Giza 75. Port Said came at the
bottom with seven protests.Forms of protest were mainly peaceful, with only 36
cases of road-blocking, sieges and suicides detected.Political and civilian
rights topped the demands of protesters in November in 462 protests. Economic
and social demands were voiced in 252 events.The report said executive
authorities still adhere to the "flawed" protest law, adding that while the
government apolitically confronts its opponents disregarding their affiliations,
"citizens backing Mubarak or the current regime enjoy full freedom of
expression."The report called upon the government to release all detainees
confined for practicing the freedom to protest and expression, warning that the
continuation of freedoms restriction would lead to the weakening and collapse of
the current administration.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

PM: Protests directed against Turkey's economy and policy

BYLINE: R. Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 255 words


June 11--The Turkish protests are directed against the economy and politics of
the country, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was quoted today by TRT
Haber TV channel as saying.

Erdogan said four people were killed during the riots. One of them was a
policeman.

He added that the protesters do not realise the amount of the damage made to the
country's economy and tourism as a result of the protests.

According to Erdogan, about 80 per cent of reservations were cancelled due to
the protests in Turkey.

"The government must not remain silent when the radical groups are damaging the
country's economy," Erdogan said. He also urged that the protests cease.

Protests against the reconstruction of Gezi Park on Taksim Square in Istanbul
have lasted for more than 10 days. Istanbul police blocked the roads leading to
the Taksim Square this morning where several groups of people continued
protesting.

Earlier, Istanbul's governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu said the police will not use
force against protesters on Taksim Square

He added that the purpose of the police is to clean the area from the
anti-government posters and remove the barricades.

Earlier, it was reported that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan will meet with
representatives of the Taksim Square protesters on June 12.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Taksim Square, Recep Tayyip Erdogan

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130611-1AZ-PM-Protests
-directed-against-Turkey-s-economy-and-policy-0611-20130611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              35 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan: Protests against sectarian killings today

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Sept. 29 -- The Majlis-i-Wahdat-i-Muslimeen (MWM) and the Ahl-i-Sunnat
Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) announced on Thursday that they would stage separate protest
demonstrations on Friday against targeted killings on sectarian grounds.

Speaking to journalists on Mehfil-i-Shah-i-Khorasan Road, Allama Hassan Zafar
Naqvi of the MWM said that his party would observe Friday as a day of protest
against the targeted killings and murders of Shias.

"In the first phase, protests will be held outside mosques after Friday
prayers," he said.

"This is the beginning of our protest campaign and if the government does not
move, the protests will be expanded to throughout the country and in the final
decisive phase, protest demonstrations will be staged outside the key government
buildings and the US embassy."

He said that the killings on sectarian grounds had increased following the
recent peaceful protest staged outside the US consulate against the anti-Islam
film made in the US.

A spokesperson for the ASWJ also came up with almost the same viewpoint and
condemned the killings on sectarian grounds.

He said that their organisation would also observe Friday as a protest day.

"A protest demonstration would be held outside the Markaz-i-Ahl-i-Sunnat on the
main Nagan traffic intersection after Friday prayers," he said Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                 April 11, 2011

Planned Swazi protest banned

BYLINE: Mandy Rossouw

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: Johannesburg, South Africa



HIGHLIGHT: Swaziland government has banned the much-anticipated protest planned
for April 12, claiming the protest organisers didn't follow correct procedures.>



The Swaziland government has banned the much-anticipated protest planned for
April 12, claiming the protest organisers did not follow correct procedures.

Swazi Prime Minister Sibusiso Dlamini said on Thursday such protests need to
have the government's approval. "Government has now learned that the formations
in question have not complied with the procedures and notices prescribed by the
relevant legislation," he said.

"This then renders the protest action illegal. We do not, therefore, expect any
individual to participate in any such proposed protest action."

Anyone who went ahead with the protests would be "dealt with in accordance with
the laws of the country", the prime minister's statement said.

The Swazi foreign minister, Lutfo Dlamini, visited South Africa this week and
downplayed the protest. "There is more talk about it here than in my country,"
he said.

He discussed with International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane the
economic problems facing the landlocked kingdom.

Lucky Lukhele of the Swaziland Solidarity Network said in a statement on
Thursday that the government was scrambling to put its best foot forward with
South Africa and the world to gain support and get rid of its economic woes.>

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Miadhu (Maldives)

                           November 28, 2015 Saturday

Police halt protest after participants move protest to the streets

LENGTH: 146  words


The opposition MDP led Minjuvaan protests have been halted by thePolice after
participants moved the protests from Artificial Beach to the streets

The protests began Friday evening, with MDP pledging to carry out the protests
for 73 hours.

Police had halted some of the participants after they had moved along Majeedhee
Magu. The protesters were halted near H. Shabnam and Police pushed them back to
Artificial Beach. After that Police entered Artificial Beach area and stopped
the protest that was on going in the area.

Police said that they had informed MDP that the protest can only be carried out
in Artificial Beach area up until midnight. However, MDP had challenged the
order, stating they will continue their protest until the Government fulfill
their demands.

Even though, the protests were halted by the Police, no scuffles had erupted
between the protesters and the Police.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Miadhu
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                          December 10, 2014 Wednesday

Democracy Index: 111 protests in November

BYLINE: Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 684  words


Worker protests increased by 17 in November from the previous month, raising the
total number to 111 worker protests, according to the Democracy Index,
affiliated to the Cairo-based organisation the International Development Center
(IDC).In a report on Tuesday, the Index showed that workers of factories and
companies staged 36 protests, while the medical sector staged 12 protests, the
educational sector staged 12 protests, journalists staged nine protests, lawyers
staged eight protests, Agriculture Ministry workers staged six protests, drivers
staged six protests, traders and owners of stores, bakeries and factories staged
six protests, civil servants of municipalities staged three protests, security
sector staged three protests, workers of mosques and bakery project staged two
protests each, Industry Ministry's vocational education teachers, workers of
Suez Canal Authority clubs, mines, farmers, street cleaners and university
security personnel staged a protest each.Demonstrations took many forms in
November including strikes, vigils, demos, sit-ins, filing complaints, detaining
officials, issuing statements, withdrawal from conferences, marches and other
forms, the Index said.Twenty-two protests were staged in Cairo, then came
Alexandria with 10 protests, then Gharbiya with nine protests, then Sharqiya and
Giza with eight protests for each, six in Suez, five in each of Menoufia,
Daqahliya and Kafr al-Sheikh, four protests in Minya, three protests in each of
Ismailia, Beheira and Qalyubia, two protests in each of Luxor, Damietta,
Fayyoum, Marsa Matrouh and Sohag, and one protest in each of North Sinai, New
Valley, Assiut, Qena, South Sinai and Port Said.The main demand behind the
protests, according to the Index, was on financial dues including disbursement
of salaries, bonuses and profits (27 percent of the protests). Twelve protests
voiced demands of getting permanent contracts.

Rice mills workers staged 12 protests demanding stable price for rice and
rescuing the company against bankruptcy. Five protests were staged against
selling of companies as well as layoffs. Lawyers staged four protests for being
insulted by police and judges. Three protests were staged against assaults on
civil servants while performing duties and two protests against arbitrary
transferral. Journalists staged two demonstrations over newspapers closing and
demanded being divided among state-run newspapers. Two protests were staged
against being forced to sign down contracts without counting the past years of
work.Workers also staged protests not related to work rights. Employees in the
Red Sea governorate protested against the decision on the new demarcation of the
governorate. Faculty members of Kafr al-Sheikh demonstrated against calls for
protesting on 28 November. Security also banned peaceful protest by workers of
Petrotrade for petroleum services despite giving a notification in advance.The
report concluded recommending reconsidering the work nature of companies that
send Egyptian workers abroad for being a main reason behind loss of migrating
workers' rights. Out of 1,147 companies,252 were closed over violations.It urged
authorities in question to investigate corruption, noting that corrupt policies
are the reason behind destruction of the national industry. The report also
indicated ambivalence in applying the protest law as many workers were
transferred to prosecution, suspended, dismissed or detained, while none of
police personnel were questioned over the protests or allowing demonstrations
denouncing 28 November calls for protests. The report stressed the necessity to
hold dialogue over the situation of independent trade unions, describing them as
the biggest profit gained by workers under rule of ousted President Hosni
Mubarak. It also highlighted unified executive, trade union and civil efforts to
resolve problems of workers related to layoffs and dismissal as result of
selling, changing activity, privatization of a company or corruption to protect
rights of hundreds of thousands of Egyptian workers.Edited translation from
Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

EU protests;
LETTERS to the EDITOR

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 203 words


How ironic that less than two weeks after the Spanish government announced plans
to crack down on protests through the imposition of massive fines, we now have
pro-EU protests in Ukraine.

The prospect of fines up to (EURO)600,000 for unauthorised protests in Spain was
no doubt precipitated by the increased frequency of strikes and protests against
the measures implemented by the Spanish government, and endorsed by the EU.

Yet now that the democratically elected government of Ukraine has decided to
step back from a treaty with the EU, and pro-EU protests and strikes have
erupted, the EU is encouraging the Ukrainian government to engage with the
protesters. Where is the conciliatory stance when it comes to the antiausterity
protests in Spain, Greece, etc? This two-faced approach to the right to protest
- and the validity of such protests - demonstrates the double standards and lack
of fairness that lie at the heart of the European Union. Strikes and protests,
it would appear, are fine, just so long as the people are protesting on behalf
of the EU. However, those that oppose the austerity being foisted upon them are
subject to swingeing fines and the tender mercies of the riot police. Simon
O'Connor Dublin 12

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 15, 2013 Friday

BRIEF: MFA: Organisation of protest rallies in Azerbaijan by National Democratic
Institute of U.S. under investigation

BYLINE: E. Mehdiev, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 166 words


March 15--Organisation of protest rallies in Azerbaijan by the National
Democratic Institute of the U.S. is under investigation and the public will be
informed of the outcome, Foreign Minister Elmar Mammadyarov said at a joint news
conference with Secretary General of OSCE on Friday.

According to him any rallies must be held with the permission of the Executive
Power of Baku, and the dispersion of the latest protest was due to its illegal
nature.

According to several media and social networks, the National Democratic
Institute of the U.S. has allocated $2 million to hold protests in Azerbaijan.

"Previously all protest rallies were held in designated areas and faced no
interference. If protest rallies are illegal, the police will suppress them," he
said.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Elmar Mammadyarov

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130315-1AZ-BRF-MFA-Organisation-of-protest
-rallies-in-Azerbaijan-by-National-Democratic-Institute-of-U-S-under-investigati
on-0315-20130315

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              41 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                            February 5, 2013 Tuesday

Half of unionists still back protests

BYLINE: Sam Mcbride

LENGTH: 401  words


ALMOST half of adult unionists want the Union Flag protests to continue -
despite repeated calls from the two main unionist leaders for them to end, a
major poll last night revealed.

In the first proper test of public opinion since Belfast City Council voted to
restrict the flying of the Union Flag two months ago, the poll found that 54 per
cent of unionists want the protests to stop, but 45 per cent believe that they
should go on.

However, across both unionism and nationalism, a clear majority - 77 per cent -
want the protests to end.

Among nationalists, 96 per cent want the protests to end, with just three per
cent saying that they support the demonstrations.

Peter Robinson and Mike Nesbitt have spent weeks arguing for the protests to
end, despite some members of their parties attending protests.

However, an Ipsos MORI poll for a BBC Spotlight programme to be broadcast
tonight will strengthen the hand of those within the DUP who believe that their
party should have supported the protests.

The poll - which comes as the numbers at protests appeared to be dwindling in
some areas - carries weight as it was conducted for the BBC by a leading polling
company and the questions

Among those who said that the protests should stop, the main reason for that
view was the violence which has accompanied some protests. Sixty four per cent
of people who now oppose the protests gave that reason.

Just under half of people (47 per cent) cited the effect of the protests on
business, while 32 per cent were turned off the protests by the impact on
investment and tourism.

Forty five per cent of people were put off the protests by the traffic and
general disruption generated by them, while 36 per cent of those opposed said
that their opposition was because nothing was being achieved.

Among those who now oppose the protests, there were very similar numbers of
unionists and nationalists who cited the above reasons for being turned off the
street demonstrations.

Other findings of the poll, which it is understood also asked people about their
views on a border poll, will be revealed in tonight's programme, which also
examines Northern Irish identity.

The BBC said that Ipsos MORI conducted 1,046 interviews with a representative
sample of the Northern Ireland population aged 18 and over. Interviews took
place between 17 January and 29 January and were conducted at 64 sampling points
across Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL tablet


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                              July 7, 2014 Monday

5232 social, economic and labour protests held in 2013: ECESR

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 488 words


Students demonstrate at Cairo University in October 2013.
(Photo by Ahmed Al-Malky)

Egypt witnessed 5,232 socio-economic protests in 2013, 82% (4,567) of which were
held before the military ouster of Islamist former president Mohamed Morsi,
according to a report prepared by the Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social
Rights (ECESR).

The ECESR annual report, released on Monday, tackles social, economic and labour
protests held throughout the year. The report looks into the location of the
protests, their type and the societal categories which stage them.

The report suggested that the Muslim Brotherhood protests held since July
against Morsi's ouster could have contributed to the decline in social, economic
and labour protests in the second half of the year. The three latter categories
resulted in 665 protests from July to December.

The ECESR said that social, economic and labour protests and the reasons behind
them were not given due attention, where generalisation was exercised in
defining them. The organisation added in its report that at most times,
protesters were either described as belonging to a certain political faction, or
the protests altogether were seen as a sign of the "failure" of the then ruling
regime.

Cairo ranked highest among the governorates where the largest number of protests
was held. An overall of 744 protests were held in the Egyptian capital alone,
translating into two protests per day. Gharbeya and Alexandria governorates
followed, with 312 and 311 socio-economic protest held in each governorate,
respectively.

The report revealed that 66% of the 2239 labour protests held in 2013 were in
the governmental sector. Protests within the public sector came next, standing
at 15.77%, followed by protests within the private sector at 12.59%.

The ECESR noted that though more protests were reported within the state-owned
sectors, studies suggest labourers at such sectors enjoy better working
conditions than those working in the private sector. The organisation owed the
high percentage of protests within the state-owned sectors to their
organisational skills and the presence of labour unions to regulate such
protests.

Most labour protests usually raise financial demands such as: increasing wages
and receiving delayed payments.

The citizens' right to justice was the highest demand among social rights
protests, standing at 17.55%. Demanding the right to security ranked second
(16.43%), followed by the right to education (12.53%). Social rights protesters
also called for the right of access to basic facilities and the right to
receiving public services.

Participants in social protests ranged from; residents (59%) to students
(18.96%) and members of the civil society (10.33%).

As for economic protesters, they included: vehicle drivers (48.68%), farmers
(10.87%), and bakery workers and owners (6.94%). Fishermen and merchants were
also among those who took part in economic protests.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2014 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday

Protesters take part in clashes in Venezuela

LENGTH: 258  words


Anti-government protesters cover from teargas during a protest at Altamira
square in Caracas March 10, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Related:

Amid protests, Venezuela to remember late Hugo Chavez

Farmers march in support of Venezuela's president

Protest continues in Venezuela

Venezuela protesters, troops clash

A national police woman reacts after being affected by teargas during riots with
anti-government protesters at Altamira square in Caracas March 10, 2014.
[Photo/Agencies]

Related:

Amid protests, Venezuela to remember late Hugo Chavez

Farmers march in support of Venezuela's president

Protest continues in Venezuela

Venezuela protesters, troops clash

Anti-government protesters stand amidst teargas during a protest at Altamira
square in Caracas March 10, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Related:

Amid protests, Venezuela to remember late Hugo Chavez

Farmers march in support of Venezuela's president

Protest continues in Venezuela

Venezuela protesters, troops clash

Anti-government protesters clash with police during a protest at Altamira square
in Caracas March 10, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Related:

Amid protests, Venezuela to remember late Hugo Chavez

Farmers march in support of Venezuela's president

Protest continues in Venezuela

Venezuela protesters, troops clash

Anti-government protesters throw stones at the police during a protest at
Altamira square in Caracas March 10, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Related:

Amid protests, Venezuela to remember late Hugo Chavez

Farmers march in support of Venezuela's president

Protest continues in Venezuela

Venezuela protesters, troops clash

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           November 30, 2013 Saturday

Downtown demo flaunts defiance of Protest Law

BYLINE: Mostafa Salem

LENGTH: 377 words


Protesters hold signs reading "this is not a protest" in defiance to the Protest
Law during a demonstration in Talaat Harb square Saturday night
(Photo by Fady Ashraf)

Around 200 people gathered in a protest held in downtown Cairo's Talaat Harb
Square Saturday in condemnation of the recently issued Protest Law and calling
for the release of detainees arrested on Tuesday during the Shura Council
protest against military trials for civilians.

Ahmed Hassan, one of the protest's organisers, said they had not submitted any
protest applications to the Ministry of Interior, as the new law stipulates. "We
don't need any permission to protest," Hassan asserted.

He added that among the organisers are the 6 April (Democratic Front), Ultras
Thawragy (Ultras Revolutionaries), Tha'eroon Hatta Al-Qasas (Revolutionaries
Until Retribution) and Al-Moshagheboon (The Rioters).

Despite the protest's clear defiance of the Protest law, security forces had not
moved to disperse it at the time of writing.

"If they are copying international protest laws, they should reform the
corruption in all sectors of the state like health and education," said Amr, a
demonstrator wearing a "Down with military rule" sweatshirt "Our 25 January 2011
Revolution was not a political one but a social one, so they have to fix our
social suffering, then start worrying about the Protest Law."

The protest remained in Talaat Harb Square without marching, contrary to
Wednesday's protest, which marched as far as the Shura Council building, almost
2.5 kilometres away from the square.

Protesters chanted against the Ministry of Interior, Muslim Brotherhood and what
they described as "military rule."

The Ministry of Interior said in a Thursday statement that as part of its
commitment to law enforcement, "it warns everyone [not to] organise events,
rallies, processions, or protests in violation of the law and without prior
notice to the authorities."

The ministry added that it would "deal with such illegal gatherings with
decisiveness and firmness as guaranteed by the law."

Related posts:

Ultras Ahlawy protest before High Court

Shafiq's HQ fire trial postponed

25 Ultras Ahlawy members released

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Daily NewsEgypt 2013Provided by
Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                 April 11, 2011

Planned Swazi protest banned

BYLINE: Mandy Rossouw

LENGTH: 206 words


The Swaziland government has banned the much-anticipated protest planned for
April 12, claiming the protest organisers did not follow correct procedures.
Swazi Prime Minister Sibusiso Dlamini said on Thursday such protests need to
have the government's approval. "Government has now learned that the formations
in question have not complied with the procedures and notices prescribed by the
relevant legislation," he said.  "This then renders the protest action illegal.
We do not, therefore, expect any individual to participate in any such proposed
protest action."  Anyone who went ahead with the protests would be "dealt with
in accordance with the laws of the country", the prime minister's statement
said.  The Swazi foreign minister, Lutfo Dlamini, visited South Africa this week
and downplayed the protest. "There is more talk about it here than in my
country," he said.  He discussed with International Relations Minister Maite
Nkoana-Mashabane the economic problems facing the landlocked kingdom.  Lucky
Lukhele of the Swaziland Solidarity Network said in a statement on Thursday that
the government was scrambling to put its best foot forward with South Africa and
the world to gain support and get rid of its economic woes.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Swaziland government has banned the much-anticipated protest planned for
April 12, claiming the protest organisers didn't follow correct procedures.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             March 24, 2014 Monday

1,044 protests in February: Democracy Meter

BYLINE: AbdelHalim H. AbdAllah

LENGTH: 376 words


Morsi supporters protest in Nasr City on 28 Febrauray, 2014.
(Photo by Ahmed Al-Malky)

Democracy Meter announced Monday that the total number of protests in Egypt
reached 1,044 in February.

An average of 37 protests took place daily with three protests every two hours,
according to the report. The most contentious day was 8 February, when 85
protests took place. On 10 February citizens organised 58 protests, and on 22
February they held 52 protests.

February protests were not focused on Fridays as was the trend during the second
half of 2013 following the military backed ousting of Mohamed Morsi on 3 July,
according to the report. Democracy Meter implied that this implies that the
protesting factions are now diversified from just Muslim Brotherhood affiliates
and sympathisers, to include doctors, workers, public servants, security sector,
educational sector and others.

Democracy Meter reported that protests for social and economic demands reached
58%. The most prominent demand cited was for the payment of late or unpaid
wages, with pressuring management to resign another common rally point.

Political demands reached 41.76%, the most prominent of which were
anti-interim-government, calling for the release of detainees, and
anti-terrorism.

Security  forcibly dealt with the protests, from rallies to human chains,
regardless of the demands, except for those organised by the security sector,
Democracy Meter reported. It said this was in spite of the fact that security
sector protests blocked roads and shut down security directorates.

Mohamed Adel, the report's editor, said the report was compiled using
information from private and state-owned media outlets, and independent research
from 18 volunteer field researchers in 18 governorates. The report had five
editors who worked with the data to make quantitative and qualitative analysis.

Democracy Meter started in 2009 as an initiative of the Egyptian Association for
Community Participation Enhancement to issue periodic reports on the status of
democracy in Egypt. The programme  became independent in 2010 then, in 2012,
merged with the International Development Center for legal purposes. In an
effort to maintain transparency, however, Democracy Meter collects donations
independently.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2014 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Histadrut threatens action if Trajtenberg proposals unsatisfactory;
Histadrut chairman Ofer Eini: It is said that the social protest is a protest by
the middle class, but it also a protest by the poor.

BYLINE: Globes' correspondent

LENGTH: 275 words


Histadrut chairman Ofer Eini today warned that if the Histadrut (General
Federation of Labor in Israel) was not satisfied with the Trajtenberg committee
recommendations, due next week, he would we respond.

"There are a lot of leaks from the committee, but I don't rely on leaks, which
by nature serve somebody's special interest. It is said that the social protest
is a protest by the middle class, but it also a protest by the poor. If there is
no news about housing, for the poor or pensioners, and other issues, then the
recommendations do not answer the protest's demands, as far as I'm concerned,"
said Eini at the New Year's toast for Histadrut pensioners.

"The Histadrut has joined the protest and Histadrut people are participating in
the some of the demonstrations. Pensioners have also demonstrated. We said at
the start that of the protest that we'd use all the means at our disposal.
Therefore, when the official recommendations are published, we'll respond to
them, and when I say we'll respond - the implication is clear."

Eini slammed the reduced bond payments that tycoons are offering and their
affect on pensioners. "In 2003, we transferred pension money to the capital
market instead of continuing to invest in designated government bonds. Since
there was nowhere else to invest, we gave loans to anyone who asked. We gave
money to tycoons and now they want to give us haircuts. The problem is that our
money has already been eroded, and we're already bald. There is nothing to cut."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
September 18, 2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Egyptian Nile News TV 1600 gmt 8 Jul 11

LENGTH: 251 words


0000 News headlines

1. 0045 Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians protest in Tahrir Square in downtown
Cairo demanding implementation of the revolution's demands. A number of
protesters call for sit-in at Tahrir Square until all demands are fulfilled.
Video report.

2. 0435 Live two-way with correspondent from Tahrir Square on developments of
protests.

3. 0930 Thousand of Egyptians protest in coastal city of Alexandria demanding
social justice, fighting of corruption. Video report.

4. 1150 Live two-way with correspondent from Alexandria on developments of
protests.

5. 1430 Thousands of Egyptians protest in coastal city of Suez demanding
implementation of the revolution's demands. Video shows protest.

6. 1510 Live two-way with correspondent from Suez on developments of protests.

7. 1705 Mass protests staged in various Egyptian governorates under the name of
"Friday of Revolution First". Video shows protests.

8. 1735 Live interview at the studio with Egyptian political analyst on today's
protests.

9. 3100 Live two-way with volunteer physician from Tahrir Square on medical
services provided for protesters.

10. 3610 Live two-ways with citizens from various places in Egypt on today's
protests.

11. 4710 Midway headlines.

12. 4740 Eight Syrian protesters reportedly killed in various places in Syria.
Video report.

13. 5000 Thousands of Yemenis stage pro-president protest; Opposition stages
anti-president protest. Video report.

14. 5345 Closing headlines.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1600gmt 08 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

Arab nations to hold fresh protests

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Bahrian


Bahrian, April 23 -- People in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Yemen have planned to
stage new anti-government protests to continue their movement against the ruling
regimes.

Anti-government protesters in Saudi Arabia will hold massive protests on Friday
to protest against the US-backed monarchy's military intervention in Bahrain and
human rights violations in their country.

Saudi activists announced that they would also show their anger with the
government's detention of "prisoners of conscience."

Many protests against the government and its policies have been held in Saudi
Arabia over the past several months despite a ban on protests of any kind.

In Bahrain, 'Qur'an Friday' protest rallies have been planned to condemn the
deadly Saudi-backed crackdown on the opposition.

Bahraini people have poured to the streets since mid February to protest against
the Al Khalifa dynasty.

Amnesty International on Thursday warned about a "rapidly worsening human rights
crisis" in Bahrain after rights groups said that the government has arrested
scores of people during the demonstrations.

"North American and European governments, so vocal recently in espousing the
cause of human rights in Libya, Tunisia and Egypt, need also to speak out loudly
about what is going on in Bahrain," Amnesty said in a statement.

"Some detainees have reportedly been tortured or otherwise ill-treated following
arrest. At least four detainees are known to have died in custody in suspicious
circumstances," it added.

Similar rallies are expected in Yemen, where tens of thousands of people
gathered in the capital Sana'a, Baida and other cities on Thursday, demanding
President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down after 32 years in power. Published by
HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            December 13, 2015 Sunday

Madhes protests may turn more violent: Mahato

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Dec. 13 -- United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) leader and Chairman
of Sadhbhawana Party Rajendra Mahata has warned of dire consequences if the
Madhes protests are not success.

Mahato in an interaction program at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi last
Tuesday said that the protests will move forward with three options in future.

In his first option, Mahato said the ongoing 'peaceful' protests will now turn
into more violent protests. In his second option, Mahato said the protests will
demand a separate state. "We have been demanding a separate province respecting
the country's sovereignty," he added, "However, if this demand is not made we
will protest for a separate nation."

Meanwhile, Mahato's third option is inciting communal violence in the ongoing
protests. "If the Madhes protests are made unsuccessful than it will turn into
communal violence," he added, "Hope the concern authorities will heed our
demands and we don't have to go to that extent."

People have lost the trust on peaceful protests, Mahato said. "So we have been
left with these three options."

The interaction program was chaired by Prof. SD Muni while UDMF leaders Mahanta
Thakur, Upendra Yadav, Mahendra Rae and Chanda Chaudhary were also present in
the interaction program. The interaction program was held when leaders were in
Delhi visit.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Democracy Index detects drop in protest rates in September

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 640  words


Last September has seen a drop in the intensity of protests in Egypt according
to the the Egypt-based International Development Center, which said protests
went down from 647 in August to 513 in the following month.Released on
Wednesday, the center's Democracy Index revealed that the September rate
involved an average of 17 protests daily (two protests every three hours).
However, and according to the report, the drop coincides with a change in the
protest map in terms of geography, protest organizers and the demands
voiced.Fridays saw the most intensive protests in September, the report says,
noting that the Muslim Brotherhood supporters were primarily behind these
demonstrations. September Fridays witnessed 153 protests, accounting for 30
percent of the month's total number of protests, and 75 percent of total Muslim
Brotherhood-organized events, which means the group relied heavily on Fridays
for its activities.The same month marked an increase of 25.34 percent, up from
18.7 in August, in protests over demands related to work environments. Factory
and corporations workers topped the list of labour protests in September with 36
protests, teachers and educational workers coming second with 21 events,
government employees (19 protests), drivers (11 protests), farmers (10 protests)
and journalists (seven protests).A noteworthy development in [#x64d]September
was the drastic decline in protest activities by Brotherhood backers from 64
percent in August to 39.5 percent.

Group members staged 414 out of 647 demonstrations in August, then 203 out of
513 in September. That's approximately a 50 percent drop in its protest
activities from the two previous months.Prisoners and political activists
equally staged eleven protests. Copts staged only four protests.Economically and
socially-oriented demands witnessed a hike in September to 54 percent of the
month's protest agenda, up from 35 percent in August, in face of political
demands that accounted for 46 percent, down from 65 percent in
August.Thirty-five protests over government decision to lift fuel subsidies were
staged in September, the report counts, while protests denouncing electricity
cuts stood at 33. SIx protests denounced poor medical services.Transportation
services and relevant issues were behind several protests by drivers and
passengers, reflecting the government's failure to better control transportation
tariffs roads improvement.September had witnessed 237 politically-motivated
protests, with the Brotherhood staging the majority of these events with 119
demonstrations demanding what the called "the fall of the military rule". There
were 55 protests demanding the release of political prisoners, 22 condemning the
law regulating protests, eight denouncing terrorist attacks, six against
security void and three against security mistreatment of lawyers and Copts.The
index also tackled the 28 various forms of peaceful and unpeaceful protesting
during September, including 182 marches, 64 protests 61 vigils, 35 road blocking
protests, seven sieges and invasion of facilities. The report said the most
notable protest action was the hunger strike by more than 1000 activists to
demand the release of political prisoners and the modification of the protest
law.Two person committed suicide while a third threatened to suicide in protest,
the report adds, reviving the 2010 scene in Egypt and Tunisia shortly before the
Arab Spring revolutions, and reflecting the political and economic pressures
endured by Egyptians.Cairo topped Egyptian provinces with 118 protests (23
percent of the total number), which the report said denoted a belief that
protesting at the capital would constitute an extra pressure on authorities.
Alexandria came second with 56 protests, Giza (45), Sharqiya (32). Sinai
Peninsula came at the bottom with only one protest.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday

PTCL employees announce series of protest demonstrations for getting pay raise

LENGTH: 211  words

DATELINE: RAWALPINDI


RAWALPINDI, Aug. 04 -- Pakistan Telecommunication Employees

Limited (PTCL) Union announced a serious of protest demonstrations in support of
their demand of 50 percent pay raise as per announcement of the government.

The protests already started from August 2 would continue upto August

12, an official of CBA union Mohammad Safdar said while talking to Right Vision
News here at Rawalpindi Press Club.

On August 4 countrywide protest demonstrations would be held at 11 am

out side GM office. While protest rallies would be held on Thursday August 5
from GM office to respective press clubs across the country.

The PTCL workers would hold protest demonstrations for one hour on

August 6,7 and 9 from 10 to 11 am. Protest demonstrations would be held across
the country on Saturday August 7 from 10 to 11am. Two hours protest
demonstration will be organized on August 10, 12 from 10 to 12 am, he said.

While last protest demonstration will be held in Lahore on August 12 at

11 am and future course of action would be announced there after bilateral
consultations, he concluded Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday

Service-delivery protests getting uglier 13 report

BYLINE: Nashira Davids

SECTION: SOCIAL ISSUES

LENGTH: 457 words


Service-delivery protests getting uglier - report
 Western Cape the biggest target
 'The grievances are most severely felt in winter'


 PROTEST activity rose dramatically in the first eight months of this year,
according to a report by the Multi-Level Government Initiative.


 About 80% of the protests were violent.
  The Multi-Level Government Initiative, which tracked protests between February
2007 and August 2012, released its protests barometer in Cape Town yesterday.
 The research corroborates the findings of local governments and data collated
by intelligence service Municipal IQ.
 It shows that there has been an unprecedented increase in the number of
protests and in the use of violence by protesters.
  Western Cape felt most of the protesters' wrath.
 "Protest" is defined by the researchers as "any complaint or issue cited by
protesters in reports, whether related to the delivery of municipal services or
not, over which citizens decide to, and actually engage in, [sic] organised
public protest activity".
 Findings included that:
 oProtest activity rose dramatically in the first eight months of 2012, with 226
protests;
 oIf current trends continue, this year will have more than twice as many
protests as last, and more than in 2010 and 2011 together;
 oWestern Cape surpassed Gauteng as the province with the highest number of
violent protests this year;
 oBefore 2012, Western Cape recorded its highest protest activity during an
election year;
 oWestern Cape, Eastern Cape and Gauteng accounted for 56.98% of protests; and
 oLand and housing were the most cited issues, 303 in the six-year period. Poor
service delivery was second, with 218 protests. Grievances related to broken
promises and government officials ignoring protesters' complaints have risen
exponentially since 2010 but account for less than 10% of complaints.
 This year, Western Cape shot past Gauteng as the province with the biggest
number of violent protests.
 Professor Nico Steytler, director of the Community Law Centre at the University
of Western Cape, said there were invariably more protests in winter.
 "Often it is because the grievances are most severely felt in winter, such as
housing, electricity and access to roads," said Steytler.
 But researchers have warned people not to draw hasty conclusions from the study
and that more research is needed.
 The head of the research project, Professor Jaap de Visser, said the
researchers had begun collecting information on a very complicated issue.
 "Let us build up our knowledge about protests over a period of time.
 "The government should put serious effort into analysing protest activity and
use the information to improve its performance and engagement," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times


                         Copyright 2012 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday

Worry over increase in violent protests

BYLINE: Nashira Davids, Zinhle Nhlanhla; Poppy Louw

SECTION: SOCIAL ISSUES

LENGTH: 343 words



 SOUTH Africans should brace themselves for more service delivery riots as the
number of violent protests has spiked.
 Last month had more service delivery protests countrywide than any other month
in the past eight years, according to researchers.


 While tear gas explosions, stone-throwing, burning tyres and angry communities
have already become a common sight around the country, Kevin Allan of Municipal
IQ - a data and intelligence service which monitors 283 municipalities and has
kept track of service delivery protests since 2004 - said protests were getting
more frequent.
 The organisation found that this year accounted for 14% of all protests
recorded since 2004, "with May 2012 recording more protests than any other month
since 2004".
 Most of the unhappiness arose from urbanisation, as many flock to cities from
poor rural areas to find jobs, he said. They were forced to live in slums
without access to basic services.
 Yesterday saw several service delivery protests in Cape Town and Johannesburg.
Police were also called in to quell protests in Nelson Mandela Bay's
impoverished Kuyga earlier this week.
 Municipal IQ economist Karen Heese said protests had many underlying sources.
 "Protests in May were as diverse as they were common," she said.
 "From demands for housing in Cape Town to a cluster of North West protests for
tarred roads, the worrying theme was that they were violent and demonstrated
high levels of frustration."
 The Western Cape has seen more protests this year than any other province. The
Free State is in second place while the North West and the Eastern Cape share
third spot.
 "Protests erupt for various reasons and there isn't a strong central theme
apart from the fact that people are protesting for a lack of services," Allan
said.
 He said conflict between ANC factions had also led to service delivery
protests.
 This was particularly prominent in the North West province in 2009 - the year
Jacob Zuma became president.

 Allan said it was likely that this year would "eclipse the peak records of 2009
and 2010".

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday

Report: less labor protests in 2014

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 133  words


A report by the Egyptian Center for Economic and Social Rights has said that
labor protest in Egypt have gone down from 2.239 protests in 2013 to 1,655
protests in 2014 since the January 25 revolution.But the report said this does
not mean labor protests will end completely.Cairo saw 394 protests in 2014,
followed by Alexandria with 169, Suez with 151, Gharbiya with 144, Sharqiya with
137 and Menoufia with 119, with protests by public sector workers amounting to
85 percent of the total.Protests demanding better financial remunerations scored
49 percent, followed by 12.6 percent for improving contractual conditions, 16.9
percent for guarantees, 4.5 percent against corruption and inefficiency, 1.5
percent demanding the right to organize protests, and 15 percent against
arbitrary dismissals.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday

Despite protests govt strict on its decision to continue emergency

BYLINE: MAQSOOD TIRMIZI

LENGTH: 478 words


ISLAMABAD-Scared citizens of capital are shocked at the imposition of emergency
and curbs on media that is depriving people of their basic right to know the
truth. Silence prevailed over the entire city for almost three days after the
imposition of the emergency but soon the silence broke with the Pakistan Federal
Union of Journalists action plan to protest against the emergency, curbs on
media and media hostile ordinances.

According to the action plan, PFUJ started their protests in front of different
media offices. In the beginning the protest was not loud but with the passage of
time, it gained momentum. These protest started growing with a result the feared
pessimistic civilians, students of universities, NGOs and lawyers came out on
roads to join other journalists in their noble cause.

From November 9 to November 18, accurately 10 demonstrations have staged in the
capital by the journalists for the freedom of press and 'peoples' right to
know'. However, after spending 10 days in protests, these protests still
continue and it is announced by the journalists that they would continue their
till the lifting of emergency, withdrawal of black laws on media.

With the protests of journalists, an optimistic approach arise among the
civilians and different organisations, civil society activists, students, NGOs
and lawyers who have once again started organising their own protests while
making sure that they appear in the journalists' protests.

The civilians are observing almost two to three protests in a day, which proves
a state of unrest in city.

Lawyers are also holding their protests against the imposition of emergency,
curbs on media and PCO. They stage protest daily in F-8 sector where a large
gathering of lawyers, political workers, civil society activists and students
get-together to record their demonstration.

One hours' hunger strike and a warm walk amid loud slogans around the F-8 Markaz
have become their daily practice.

Students of various universities and schools have also started holding
demonstrations. Quaid-e-Azam University is also one of the institutions that
regularly stages protests in the premise of the university. A large number of
students and facility members from different departments join the protest that
finishes with the classes. However, these students are also taking parts in
other protests staged by journalists, lawyers and civil society activists.

Now civil society has also started staging protests and demonstration. They
protest daily in sector F-6.

Such protests have become a routine for the civilians and it seems that these
protests will increase in numbers with the passage of time as the number of
peoples participation in protests are increasing continuously.

On the other hand, the government is strict on its decision and seems to
continue with the same sate of emergency in the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Executive Branch; Civil Disruption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                           Copyright 2007 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

At a glance

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 122 words


MORE than 200 protests spread through the country in the first eight months of
this year.

There were 208 service delivery protests in SA during that period.

Last year there were 150 fewer protests for the entire year.

On average, this means there are about 28 protests each month.

Researchers from the Multi-Government Initiative say that if current trends
continue, this year will have more protests than last year and 2010 combined.

The Western Cape had the highest number with 51 protests. Of these, 39 turned
violent.

In the North West there were 26 violent protests.

Gauteng recorded 30 service delivery protests, including those where violence
was involved. It's the first time in five years that Gauteng does not have the
most protests.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                Copyright 2012 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            December 6, 2015 Sunday

Registering protest is proof that you are alive..;
Celebrated poet Nida Fazli shares with dna's Paras K Jha his views on protests
against intolerance

BYLINE: Paras K Jha

LENGTH: 526  words


Celebrated poet Nida Fazli shares with dna's Paras K Jha his views on protests
against intolerance

Ahmedabad: He is disturbed by violence across world and the intolerance
controversy in the country. But in one of his latest couplets (sher), one of the
most celebrated contemporary Urdu poet Nida Fazali expresses hope and optimism
for the world, while sharing his view on solutions to the issues.

Intolerance

Whatever had happened to the Sikhs in Delhi and across the country in 1984, what
had happened to Graham Staines, to Dabholkar, looking at all the incidents I
feel that no political party is clean enough.

Recently at a literature festival, writer Amitava Ghosh said farmer has plough,
engineer has his tools, writers have pen...everybody has a tool and they should
protest through their own medium. There is controversy about returning awards
(Inam wapasi). You can express your protest by returning the award once, but
what if you want to protest again over some other issue? How will you protest at
that time?

There are others ways to protest. Like a journalist of Iraq - Muntzeer - had
hurled the shoe to US President George W Bush for ruining his country. It was
his way of protest. Hindi poet Dhumil expresses his protest through his poetry.
Jab tak gussa baaki hai, apni duniya baaki hai. I think registering protest is
like keeping ourselves alive.

Expression of protest

can be different

Be it India, Pakistan or Bangladesh, everywhere the common man is homeless,
disturbed. The common man comprises three quarters of these all countries. We
all are fighting with each other but we are not identifying our common enemies -
dirty water, broken roads, unemployment, poverty. All these equally affect
Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus, Christians, everyone.... Instead of solving these
issues, just a few hundred people divert our minds. This is all about vote bank
politics.

Of human bonds

Man-to-man relationship has not died and it never will. When a beedi is rolled
in Jabalpur, no one asks about the religion of the hands that rolled it. When a
diamond is polished in Surat, no one asks for the religion of the polisher.
Nobody ask the wheat grain who grew it and where it is going. Gangajal has never
asked us whether we will offer it to the Sun, or perform wuzu (Ablution), or
wash idols in the church with it.

Hinduism says 'Kan-kan me bhagwan'; Islam says 'Zarre Zarre me khuda hai',
Christianity says 'Let there be light'. We worship Ganga, but we are not
creating its bounteousness in our heart.

On not leaving India during

riots in 1964-65

I was a college student in Gwalior and an active member of students' federation.
So I thought, changing land is not a solution. And problems are not religious,
these are human riddles. In a documentary, I had said in front of Mirza Ghalib's
grave that it was good he had died in his time. Had he been alive today, he
would have been attached by mullas and pundits.

For me secularism is to believe that whatever faith you have, keep it to
yourself. But when you are out of your home and shaking hand with someone, at
that time a human should shake hand with another human.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

714 protests in November - Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 321  words


CAIRO, Dec 16 (Aswat Masriya) - Egypt witnessed 714 protests in November, with
the rate of one protest per hour, the Cairo-based Democracy Index said on
Tuesday.

November saw a number of important events which triggered protests, Democracy
Index noted, such as the anniversary of the Mohamed Mahmoud Street clashes, the
acquittal of toppled President Hosni Mubarak and a call for protests to "impose
Egypt's Islamic identity."

On November 29, a criminal court dropped charges against Mubarak and acquitted
his interior minister over complicity in the killing of protesters during the
January 2011 uprising which toppled his regime. The ruling was met with
nationwide dissent and fueled numerous protests, especially among students.

Democracy Index counted 42 protests decrying Mubarak's acquittal on November 30.

The highest number of protests was recorded on November 28.The
ultra-conservative Salafi Front, had called on people to take to the streets,
while holding Qurans to "impose the Islamic identity", in what it called the
"Muslim Youth Intifada".

Civil and political rights topped protesters' demands, making up 64.7 percent
(462 protests) of the total percentage of demands. Calls for social and economic
rights ranked second at 35.3 percent (252 protests).

Students were at the forefront of protesting groups, with 31.65 percent (226
protests) of protests recorded. The Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters
followed with 31.51 percent (225 protests).

According to the Index, 175 protests were counted in Cairo, 87 protests were
counted in Alexandria, 52 were counted in Sharqiya, and 43 were counted in Kafr
al-Sheikh.

Supporters of Mubarak and the current regime enjoyed all forms of freedom of
expression, while their opponents were subject to "suppression", the Index noted
in its report.

Democracy Index is a research project issued by the Cairo-based International
Development Centre to monitor protests rate in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2014 Aswat Masriya
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Some 98 people injured during Turkey's mass protests

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 253 words


March 14--Some 98 people were injured during the protests in Istanbul, held in
connection with the death of 15- year-old Elvan Berkin. About 22 of them are
police officers, Turkish news agency Anadolu reported on March 14 referring to
Istanbul's police.

Two municipal buildings, 24 ATMs, and nine private offices were damaged during
the protests.

On March 11, there were mass protests in 32 Turkish cities in connection with
the death of 15-year-old Elvan Berkin. He suffered a head injury during a rally
in May last year and remained in a coma until he died recently.

The largest protests were observed in Istanbul and Ankara.

Several demonstrators were shooting at the police officers in Istanbul.

It was also reported that some 40 minors involved in the protests were detained.

Mass protests were also held on March 12 during Elvan Berkin's funeral.

Anti-government protests took place in Turkey for nearly three weeks beginning
in late May.

Turkish oppositional parties accused the police of using excessive force against
protestors.

In total, around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in
protests during the three weeks, the Turkish Interior Ministry said earlier.

As a result of the unrests in Turkey nearly 4,000 people were injured with
varying severity, 4,900 were detained by the police.

Translated by NH

Edited by CN

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140314-1AZ-Some-98-people-injured-during-Turkey-s-mass-protests
-0314-20140314

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              61 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2006 Friday

Communists protest against Israeli operation in Lebanon, Russo-US joint drill

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by Russian Centre TV on 4 August

Protests against the war in the Middle East were held in Moscow today. The
Communists conducted two protests. One was held outside the Israeli embassy,
where about 50 people had gathered. They were holding placards and red banners,
and were chanting: Israel, get out of Lebanon. The protesters demanded an end to
the war, urged Israel to get ready to pay compensation to Lebanon and restore
all the damage caused. An appeal to that effect was handed over to the embassy
staff.

As for the other protest, only nine people gathered outside the NATO Information
Bureau in Moscow - a delegation of the International Union of Soviet Officers.
They were planning to protest against the US-Russian joint exercise in Nizhniy
Novgorod Region [scheduled for September]. But the protest had not been
sanctioned. Police officers persuaded the protesters to leave.

[Video shows both protests]

Source: Centre TV, Moscow, in Russian 1345 gmt 4 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                              June 3, 2016 Friday

No surprise as SABC puts end to violence on screen

BYLINE: Siphe Macanda

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 522 words


By
 Political Reporter
 THE recently announced plans by the SABC to curb violent protest footage from
TV screens seems to have been lurking in the pipeline for a long time.


 This has been revealed by recent data released by media monitoring company
Media Tenor.
 A careful analysis of data collected over the last three years starting in 2013
shows that violent protest coverage on all SABC channels has gone into sharp
decline.
 The data spans from 2013 to 2016 and it documents how both the SABC and eTV
have been covering protests.
 The data shows that, from 2013 to 2016, protest coverage by the SABC decreased
from more than 1400 number of reports in 2013 to just under 500 in 2015 (For a
year-to-year analysis see the accompanying graphic).
 A comparison of the quantity of the SABC coverage with the measured amount of
major protests as captured by Municipal IQ clearly shows a major disparity in
coverage.
 Media Tenor researcher Jordan Griffiths notes that protest coverage on the SABC
has not been overwhelming at all or particularly dominant.
 "Despite the SABC announcement, it is clear that the broadcaster has already
been decreasing the amount of coverage dedicated to protests over the years," he
said.
 Further analysis of the data shows there is also no noticeable correlation
between decreased media reports and the number of actual protests that took
place during the similar period.
 Data of the protests from 2004 to 2016, released by the Municipal IQ, shows
that although major service delivery protest coverage has declined, actual
protests are on the rise.
 In 2005 there were only 35 recorded major delivery protests. The figure
increased in 2009 to 107, and in 2014 rose to 191.
  The data further shows that in the first half of 2016 protests sky-rocketed
compared with other years.
 Municipal IQ economist Karen Heese raised concerns over the number of protests
this year.
  "In previous election years we actually registered protests dropping off with
electioneering appearing to promote better community engagement," Heese said.
 "Such engagement bolstered mechanisms for dispute resolution and proactive
service delivery responses and could still reverse the upward trajectory of
protests seen so far."
 A shocking finding in the data shows that the Eastern Cape and Gauteng recorded
the most major protests this election year.
 Service delivery protests by province from January 1 to April 30 show that the
Eastern Cape recorded 24% of protests while Gauteng recorded 26%.
 Municipal IQ managing director Kevin Allan said: "We have seen Gauteng and the
Eastern Cape return to the fore of protest activity this year. Many of these
protests have taken place in informal settlements and under-developed areas
where service delivery remains a major challenge."
 While these protests have grown, data from Media Tenor shows that, of the top
10 reported topics on SABC, protests ranked only at number nine.
 Although this is a prominent ranking, the public broadcaster has covered a
diversity of topics across news events including rugby, court cases, murders,
investigations, domestic security and soccer. - siphem@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Valuation protests flood office

BYLINE: MATT OLBERDING, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: Lincoln, NE


The late surge of objections means predicted numbers of protests probably will
come true.

As property valuation protests trickled in for most of last month, Lancaster
County officials expressed optimism that predictions of 10,000 or more protests
would prove untrue.

Then the floodgates opened last week -and that optimism was washed away in a
flood of protest paperwork.

Chief Deputy County Clerk Trish Owen said Monday that it's likely her office has
received 10,000 protests, a number she predicted several months ago.

Owen called that "an office guesstimate" based on the past three days' worth of
protests.

The number even may approach the county's record of 10,528 in 1987.

That number didn't seem possible a little more than week ago.

On June 23, the office had received only about 2,500 protests.

But that number had more than doubled by Thursday, to 6,000.

Owen described Friday, the deadline for most people to file protests, as "a busy
day."

Though the deadline has passed, her office will continue to get protest forms in
the mail this week.

Owen said she hopes to have a somewhat final number of protests by Friday,
though more than 900 people still have time to file protests because they
received valuation notices late.

Reach Matt Olberding at 473-2647 or molberding@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday

Keep children out of protest activities

BYLINE: C.P. Lee

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 96 words


I REFER to your report "Ministry plans huge protest by school kids" (NST, Jan 9)
which said that the education minister plans to mobilise about five million
pupils to protest against the Gaza offensive by Israel.

As a parent of a 12-year-old pupil, I am against involving schoolchildren in
such a protest or any protest in such a manner. Are we teaching our children
that mass protests are allowed?

We send our children to school to be educated, not to indulge in a mass-protest
culture. What if in future the children graduate to street protests for other
issues?

C.P. LEE

Penang

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

Report: 599 labor protests in 1st half of 2015

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 241  words


Workers belonging to 48 sectors staged 599 protests from January to June 2015,
an NGO report has unveiled.Labor protests occurred an average of 100 per month
and three per day, according to the Democracy Index report prepared by
Demo-meter, a research program launched in 2010 by a group of researchers,
journalists and students.The total of protests resembles a slight surge from 433
protests during the period August-December of 2014.According to the report, the
numbers clash with statements by the ManpowerMinistry, which say the current
year witnessed only 100 protests. The government's statements could reflect a
lack in government data gathering.Workers from the industrial sector came on top
of thegroupsprotesting with 169 demonstrations, followed by educational workers
with 89 protests and government agencies employees with 69 protests.Highlighting
motivations behind workers' protests, the report said salary- and
payment-related demands accounted for 140 of the demonstrations, followed by
calls for appointment at 89 protests, with the latter, the report says, being a
testimony to the persisting dilemma from the use of non-contracted and temporary
workers.Protests related to forced retirement and arbitrary dismissal accounted
for 50 of the total demonstrations, according to the report.Only 14 protests
turned violent, while five saw protesters attempting suicide and physical harm
to themselves as a sort of protest, it added.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                              June 24, 2013 Monday

Democracy Index: 9427 protests during Morsi's first year

BYLINE: Rana Muhammad Taha

LENGTH: 706 words


Democracy Index put the number of protests held against President Mohamed
Morsi's regime during its first year at 9427.
(AFP Photo)

Democracy Index put the number of protests held against President Mohamed
Morsi's regime during its first year at 9427.

The Cairo-based Index released on Monday its first annual report about the
number of protests held during President Morsi's term so far, precisely since 1
July 2012 until 20 June 2013. The Index works under the International
Development Centre (IDC).

The report cited a 700 percent increase in the number of protests during the
past year when compared to former President Hosni Mubarak's last year in power,
as the average of protests per month rose from 176 protests in 2010 to 1140
protests in 2013.

Mohamed Adel, IDC executive director, stated that several taboos were destroyed
after the 25 January revolution in 2011; taboos that stood as a roadblock in the
way of potential protests.

"Most of the fears citizens had nurtured before the revolution are gone now,"
Adel said. "Also, before the revolution, citizens usually failed to recognise
most of their rights, a fact which has now changed."

Adel nevertheless stated that this factor does not strongly contribute to the
big rise in protests during the past year. He said that the destruction of
taboos started during Mubarak's final year in power.

The report stated that the percentage of protests increased by 100 percent
during the second half of Morsi's first year in power when compared to protests
during the first half of the year.

The index cited 60 sectors which participated in the protests. Labour protesters
ranked highest among those sectors, forming 49 percent of the protests;
precisely 4609 protests. Coming next were the general public protests, where
ordinary citizens took part in 27 percent of the protests. Political activists
and civilians ranked third, contributing to the 9427 protests by 13 percent.

Protests were mainly triggered by socio-economic demands, the Index reported,
which instigated 67 percent of the protests.

Protests calling for the release of detainees and justice for the victims of the
revolution made up 31 percent of the total protests. The Index stated that the
regime's "continuous attempts to control all state institutions, exclude all
opposition movements and crackdown on freedoms rights" were all instigators to
such protests.

The Index broke down the different forms of protest to include: 2387
demonstrations (25.3 percent), 1013 strikes, 811 sit-ins, 503 marches, 482
rallies and 80 human chains, 1555 road-blockages, 248 hunger strikes, 28 attacks
on officials' convoys, 18 physical attacks of institutions and 16 cases of
torching institutions.

The report stated that the nationwide protests monitored during the past year
reflected a shift of de-centralisation. It said that although the majority of
protests took place in the capital (1570), it stood at only 16.7 percent of the
protests, a smaller percentage when compared to previous years.

Gharbeya (684 protests) ranked second, Sharqeya (624 protests) ranked third and
Alexandria (624 protests) ranked fourth. Marsa Matrouh hosted the lowest
percentage of protests nationwide.

The report expected that the 30 June planned protests would be violent. It
stated that "the anger caused by the regime which is currently taking over large
sectors of citizens would provide a convenient atmosphere for violence". It
called on those organising the protests to structure a mechanism which would
minimise the level of possible violence and chaos.

"No solutions would be available to the current crisis until the regime is
ousted," Adel said. He added that the state's conditions during the past year
did not only remain at a standstill, but they actually deteriorated.

The presidency launched an official website about Morsi's first year in power on
Thursday. The website included official statistics of protests, putting the
number of protests held during the past year at 5821. Statistics also referred
to 7709 demonstrations and 24 planned million-man marches all held during the
last year.

Related posts:

Activists and parties denounce prosecutor general's decisions

Morsi begins Pakistan-India tour

Lawyers to defend case of summoned activists

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            December 30, 2012 Sunday

New protest law proposed

BYLINE: Liliana Mihaila

LENGTH: 287 words


The Shura Council proposed on Sunday a new law governing protests and sit-ins.
The draft law is said to be limiting freedom of protest and expression.

The legislative and human rights committees of Shura Council proposed the law,
which stated that protests are allowed between 7 am and 7 pm.

The proposal stated that the organiser of the protest should inform security
forces of the location and timing of the scheduled protest before holding it. It
also gave security forces the right to attend or prevent meetings of protest
organisers, if they were perceived as "threatening national security and state
order." According to the law, security forces could also end the protest, if it
is "threatening national security."

The law would also ban any protests disrupting state institutions and interests
of the citizens. Slogans and speeches instigating sectarianism would also be
banned.

It also specified a punishment of one-year imprisonment and a fine ranging
between EGP 30,000 and EGP 100,000 for those disregarding the law.

Hafez Abou See'da, head of the Egyptian Organisation for Human Rights, confirmed
that the law was proposed by the Shura Council, adding that it will be
negotiated only inside the council, before it is ratified. He denied that the
proposed law was or would be referred for public dialogue.

"It is a proposal limiting freedom of expression and peaceful protests. It is
irrational to limit the timing of the protest, as it is up to the protester to
decide when to protest as long as he is peaceful."

Abou See'da criticised the punishment stated in the proposal, describing it as
"unsuitable."

"You shouldn't go to jail for one year just because you broke an organisational
rule. This is a harsh punishment."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                             August 6, 2012 Monday

PTI protests against power outages from 8th

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 168

LENGTH: 292  words


In order to press the government to stop hours long electricity loadshedding and
condemn lodging of cases against its workers, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI),
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa chapter, Sunday called for holding weeklong protest
demonstrations and rallies across the province from August 8.

Terming power outage, lodging cases and use of force against PTI workers, PTI
has planned to holding province wide protests and rallies against what it said
brutal act on the part of provincial government.  PTI provincial spokesman Shah
Farman while talking to media persons said that it was due right of the people
to protest in favour of their demands.

On the call of PTI, protests were held against load shedding across the
province. But unfortunately, government registered cases against PTI's workers,
which was regrettable. To condemn this brutal act and again hold more protests
against load shedding, a series of weeklong protests would begin from August 8.
Theses protests would continue till August 17.

The PTI workers would hold demonstrations against government for not halting
load shedding, which has paralyzed life. People have fed of protests, but to no
avail, the government did nothing to overcome energy crisis in the country, he
alleged.

He said that government must take back all cases lodged against PTI workers,
otherwise the protest call could be extended. He appealed party workers to
remain peaceful during these protests.

He said that protests would take place at all district headquarters and tehsil
headquarters and it was expected that hundreds of party workers would attend it
so that to press government to stop load shedding and take cases against PTI
workers immediately.

He asked ANP government to stop humiliation of party workers.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday

Ongoing protests demand Yemeni president "steps down"

LENGTH: 639 words


Text of report in English by Yemen Times newspaper website on 24 January

[Report by Sadeq Al-Wesabi: "Protests Set to Continue in Yemen"]

Hundreds of Yemeni protesters yesterday faced heavy security when they took to
the streets demanding the release of citizens arrested during anti-government
protests within the last week.

They also continued their demands for a regime change and that President Ali
Abdallah Salih steps down.

The protest started at the office of the Yemeni Journalists' Syndicate, passed
Sana'a University and proceeded to the General Prosecutor's Office where they
demanded the release of imprisoned protesters.

"Overthrowing the president is inevitable," the protesters chanted as they
marched.

The Yemeni Interior Ministry last week declared that protest organizers should
inform them in writing three days before holding protests or face arrest.
Despite this, yesterday's protest was spontaneous and had a crowd of at least
500 people.

Among the crowd were women, men, students and children. They carried pictures of
activists and protesters who were arrested in recent days.

Salah Al-Mekhlafi told the Yemen Times during the protest that "Yemenis must
protest against corruption".

"It's our duty as the youth to overthrow the oppressive regime," he said.

Abdulkareem Al-Khayati said that "ordinary people" were more active and honest
than political parties.

The arrests of protesters have continued despite the fact that Yemen signed the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in February 1987 which
states in Article 21 that the "right of peaceful assembly shall be recognized".
It further states that, "no restrictions may be placed on the exercise of this
right other than those imposed in conformity with the law and which are
necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security or
public safety, public order, the protection of public health or morals or the
protection of the rights and freedoms of others".

Karman had publicly said that Yemeni security had warned her two days before her
arrest that she would be detained if she continued with demonstrations.

Among those who were arrested yesterday was Khaled Al-Ansi, the general
executive of the National Organization for Defending Rights and Freedoms. An
hour before his arrest, Al-Ansi spoke to the Yemen Times about Karman's arrest.

"They arrested her because she represents the free voice of Yemenis as she tries
to transfer the Tunisian's massage to Yemeni youth. She led a new youth movement
in its second week now against the regime," he said.

"Her arrest is a stupid step that will lead to more public anger. She was taken
to the Central Prison, instead of the Political Security Prison which
journalists and activists usually are held in, so that the government can avoid
public anger as she is a woman," said Al-Ansi.

Abdullah Al-Sufi, a cameraman with Al-Arabia news channel, was also among those
arrested. He told the Yemen Times that after they were arrested, the General
Prosecutor Rezq Al-Olofi said that Al-Sufi and other cameramen should be
released. Television cameras of Al-Arabia and Al-Jazeera news channels were
confiscated.

"They released me but they took my colleague Mujeeb Souleh," said Al-Sufi.

Ali Al-Dailami, head of the Yemeni Organization for Defending Rights and
Freedoms, was also among those arrested.

Abdulkareem Al-Khewani, a journalist who was arrested repeatedly in the past
because of his articles that claimed President Ali Abdullah Saleh thought that
Yemen was a monarchy, said that the government wanted to gain legitimacy by
arresting activists.

"The regime thinks it can avoid public anger by taking a defensive step and
attacking activists. The Yemeni regime is broken and thinks it can earn
legitimacy by arresting activists," he said.

Source: Yemen Times website, Sanaa, in English 24 Jan 11

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                              Business Day Edition

Data confirm SA is a world leader in labour instability

BYLINE: KARL GERNETZKY

SECTION: LABOUR

LENGTH: 353  words


Data confirm SA is a world leader in labour instability

Political Writer

LABOUR issues accounted for almost half of all public protests recorded by the
police between 1997 and 2013, while the number of protests characterised as
disorderly had risen steadily, the University of Johannesburg (UJ) has said.

UJ's research reaffirmed the general opinion that SA has one of the highest
global incidences of labour instability. Analysts said the correlation between
various protests points to a broader wish for economic inclusion and growth, as
opposed to policy tinkering.

Peter Alexander, a director of UJ's Social Change Research Unit, Carin Runciman,
Boitumelo Maruping and others used the South African Police Services' (SAPS)
Incident Registration and Information System, which characterises events based
on whether there is a crowd, peaceful or not. The researchers sought to
determine whether these crowds were necessarily protest events. Eighty percent
of all police-recorded protests between 1997 and 2013 were categorised by the
researchers as & orderly& 10% as & disruptive& and 10% as & violent& with the
researchers combining the latter two categories under & disorderly& Labour
protests were the most common reason for a crowd-forming, at 46%, more than
twice that of community-based protests including service delivery, at 22.1%,
with community protests more likely to be disorderly than labour protests. The
report notes that media coverage is far more likely to focus upon violent
protests. Public perceptions that protests were becoming increasingly violent
were not inaccurate, said Alexander.

The SABC drew criticism for not showing images of violent protest.

When accounting for population, the Free State had the highest estimated number
of police-recorded protests between 1997 and 2004 and the Northern Cape had the
highest between 2005 and 2013. The SA Institute of Race Relations, which
conducts similar research, had found correlations between declines in relative
disposable income and protest action, as well as electoral participation and
protest action, CEO Frans Cronje said.

gernetzkyk@bdlive.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 200

LENGTH: 200  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Friday. According to details, the
contract based employees of the National Bank of Pakistan continued their
protest demonstration under the leadership of Zulfiqar Shah, Pir Nawaz for the
regularization of their services. The children of the SSGC's contract based
employee Pir Bux Bughio continued their protest demonstration for the
regularization of their father's service.

The contractors and labourers working at the Manchhar Lake recorded a protest
demonstration against the actions of their company's owner named Ashok Thadhani.
The residents of Bulri Shah Karim recorded a protest demonstration led by Wafa
Aijaz Memon staged a protest demonstration against the acute shortage of water
in their area. The residents of the Hari Camp in Husri recorded a protest
demonstration against the actions of Golarchi's landlords for not paying dues to
them. The members of the Qadam Welfare Organization recorded a protest
demonstration against the civic problems being faced by the residents of Tando
Qaisar and demanded of the concerned authorities to take steps for their
redressal.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

FOUNDER FRAZER IN PROTEST AT UPF PROTEST STATEMENT;
FLAGS ROW CONTINUES ; Signs of split over demos

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366 words


THE Ulster People's Forum will not be telling anyone to take part in white line
protests, one of the group's founding members said yesterday.

Victims' campaigner Willie Frazer added "if anything there will be an
escalation" of protests as support grows for the group said to be behind dozens
of demos linked to the ongoing dispute over the reduction of days the flag flies
at Belfast City Hall.

He spoke out after the UPF issued a statement saying members "feel that the
peaceful protests should move to a new phase of white line protests".

The police added they "welcome the announcement from the Ulster People's Forum
which encourages legal, peaceful protest".

The PSNI spoke after meeting with UPF members on Tuesday night in which they had
a "frank and constructive dialogue".

But Mr Frazer added: "The statement shouldn't have been put out as it's not up
to the People's Forum to tell people how to protest.

"The protests will certainly not be called off, far from it. There's more ahead,
it's going to be escalated.

"If people want to hold white line protests in certain areas that's up to them,
but it's not up to us to be giving people directions.

"We still haven't got all the areas on board. There are more meetings to come to
get people from different areas involved as well as getting a clearer idea what
our aims and objectives are. But there's no agreed stance yet."

He denied there was a split within the organisation and added there is "just so
much going on" that some things are "badly organised".

But the veteran campaigner said the forum has always called for protests to be
lawful. He added he was unable to attend the meeting between police and the UPF.

The police said they "were explicit that all protests need to be lawful and
peaceful" during Tuesday's meeting.

In its statement, the forum said: "The Ulster People's Forum have a consensus
that those who took part as representatives of their various areas on Saturday
feel the peaceful protests should move to a new phase of white line protests and
also localised protests outside council offices to coincide with monthly
meetings in each respective area."

It's not up to the People's Forum to tell people how to protest WILLIE FRAZER

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ESCALATE Z Frazer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

FOUNDER FRAZER IN PROTEST AT UPF PROTEST STATEMENT;
FLAGS ROW CONTINUES ; Signs of split over demos

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366 words


THE Ulster People's Forum will not be telling anyone to take part in white line
protests, one of the group's founding members said yesterday.

Victims' campaigner Willie Frazer added "if anything there will be an
escalation" of protests as support grows for the group said to be behind dozens
of demos linked to the ongoing dispute over the reduction of days the flag flies
at Belfast City Hall.

He spoke out after the UPF issued a statement saying members "feel that the
peaceful protests should move to a new phase of white line protests".

The police added they "welcome the announcement from the Ulster People's Forum
which encourages legal, peaceful protest".

The PSNI spoke after meeting with UPF members on Tuesday night in which they had
a "frank and constructive dialogue".

But Mr Frazer added: "The statement shouldn't have been put out as it's not up
to the People's Forum to tell people how to protest.

"The protests will certainly not be called off, far from it. There's more ahead,
it's going to be escalated.

"If people want to hold white line protests in certain areas that's up to them,
but it's not up to us to be giving people directions.

"We still haven't got all the areas on board. There are more meetings to come to
get people from different areas involved as well as getting a clearer idea what
our aims and objectives are. But there's no agreed stance yet."

He denied there was a split within the organisation and added there is "just so
much going on" that some things are "badly organised".

But the veteran campaigner said the forum has always called for protests to be
lawful. He added he was unable to attend the meeting between police and the UPF.

The police said they "were explicit that all protests need to be lawful and
peaceful" during Tuesday's meeting.

In its statement, the forum said: "The Ulster People's Forum have a consensus
that those who took part as representatives of their various areas on Saturday
feel the peaceful protests should move to a new phase of white line protests and
also localised protests outside council offices to coincide with monthly
meetings in each respective area."

It's not up to the People's Forum to tell people how to protest WILLIE FRAZER

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ESCALATE Z Frazer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 163

LENGTH: 228  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to details, the
activists of the Awami Tehreek staged a protest demonstration against the census
which is being carried out in the province of Sindh. A landlord namely Abdul
Salam, resident of Fazil Rahu Taluka staged a protest demonstration for the
provision of his dues by the British Petroleum Company. The members of the Sindh
Professor and Lecturers Association Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of
Niaz Laghari recorded a protest demonstration for the acceptance of their
demands.

The relatives of an abducted girl namely Razo Kolhi, resident of Jhudo staged a
protest demonstration for her recovery. The retired employees of PTCL recorded a
protest demonstration in favor of their demands. The activists of the Hyderabad
Action Committee continued their protest demonstration against the Habib Group
of Companies. A newlywed couple namely Ghulam Miustafa and Sanam Sehto recorded
a protest demonstration for the provision of protection to them. The members of
the APCA Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of Ashraf Bozai, Noor Muhammad
Shaikh and others staged a protest demonstration for the reinstatement of sacked
employees, restoration of employees' quota and provision of other facilities to
the clerk community

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday

Bush protest is newsworthy

LENGTH: 155 words


Why is a peaceful protest against President Bush and his policies newsworthy?
Because the right to participate in a legal, nonviolent protest is fundamental
to a vibrant and open democracy. Protest has brought about much-needed social
reform and social justice. Protest is often the only way citizens can be heard.
Even if protests do not bring about a desired change, at least those protesting
are on the record.

What is the alternative? Tiananmen Square, Red Square, Myanmar or North Korea.
Would any democratic-minded person really want to live in a place that
suppresses, often violently, the protest of its citizens?

I find the Bush administration and its policies abhorrent. While I have not
participated in any anti-Bush rallies recently, I fully support those who do.
Peaceful protest is a time-honored and effective tool. It in no way shows
disrespect to the office of the president or any other institution.

Sara A. Lee

Orem

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              77 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           African Manager (English)

                           December 17, 2015 Thursday

Tunisia: protests fall by half in November

LENGTH: 219 words


The Tunisian Social Observatory noted, at its latest report published Wednesday,
December 16, 2015, a significant decline in citizen protests in November, 2015
compared with October.  Indeed, 390 movements were

The Tunisian Social Observatory noted, at its latest report published Wednesday,
December 16, 2015, a significant decline in citizen protests in November, 2015
compared with October.

Indeed, 390 movements were recorded during the month of November 2015, against
910 in October 2015. This was due to the decline in protest movements in the
education sector.

Collective protests have significantly decreased from 860 in October 2015 to 349
collective movements in November 2015. Individual protests, which include
suicide, attempted suicide and other types of movements, fell in number from 50
acts to 41 in November 2015.

The 24 governorates of the Republic of Tunisia have seen a noticeable decline in
protests, both collective and individual. The governorate of Tunis remains the
main place of protest with 47 movements in November 2015.

The governorates of Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid have exceeded the threshold of 30
citizen protests or more than one protest by day. The governorate of Ben Arous
has been relatively calm during the month of November 2015.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/203/713/50/145033988653.jpg



LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 713


                         Copyright 2015 AFRICAN MANAGER
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

Democracy Index: 94 workers' protests in October

BYLINE: Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 402  words


Democracy Index, affiliated to the Cairo-based organization the International
Development Center (IDC), has said that 94 protests were staged by workers in
October with an average of three protests daily.In a report issued on Tuesday,
the index showed that workers of factories and companies came on top of the
protesting categories by 22 protests (24.5 percent of the total demonstrations
in October). Teachers and administrative workers of education came next by 20
protests (21.3 percent). Workers of the governmental medical field followed by
12 protests (12.8 percent). Faculty members of universities came next by seven
protests, then workers of police sector by four protests and finally each of
farmers and workers of Agriculture Ministry by four protests for every
category.Of the demands, 91.5 percent focused on financial dues, salaries and
bonuses, said the index. Workers of factories, companies, medical and
educational fields were the largest category urging this demand.Protesters also
demonstrated against arbitrary dismissals and layoffs, according to the index.
More than 1,930 workers were laid off in October for reasons of clearance or
changing the workplace activity.

Demonstrators demanded permanent contracts at governmental, private and business
sectors, and complained about bad treatment by either the employer or the
service recipient. Protesting farmers complained about high prices of
fertilizers, governmental reluctance in specifying cotton price as well as the
declining price of rice.Civilian and political demands occupied 8.5 percent of
the total demands. Eight protests were staged against the recent Sheikh Zuwaid
terrorist attack supporting the current regime. No protests were recorded
against laws, labor legislations or trade union freedoms.The index showed that
93.6 percent of the protests were peaceful. Protesting came in the form of
marches (22), strikes (20), demonstrations (14), sit-ins (nine), hunger strikes
(nine), memorandums and complaints (six). However, six protests adopted violence
through blocking roads, closing and breaking into authorities.Protests took
place in 20 governorates. Cairo and Giza were the main destination for
protesting workers, according to the index. Eighteen protests were staged in
Cairo, 12 in Giza, 10 in Sharqiya, eight in each of Alexandria and Daqahliya,
five in Monufiya, three in each of Minya, Ismailia, Aswan and Port Said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1436

LENGTH: 216  words


Different protests were staged by the people in favour of their demands outside
the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, the residents of village Baqar Nizamani Tando Adam staged
a protest demonstration for the recovery of an abducted girl of the Sheedi
community Gul Naz Sheedi. The activists of the Jeay Sindh Students Federation
(JSSF) staged a protest demonstration for the release of their arrested leaders
including Abdul Razzaq Sehto, Haji Nohani, Imran Nohani and others. The people
of the Kolhi community, residents of Umerkot staged a protest demonstration
against the actions of a local landlord.

The sacked employees of  Pingrio Sugar Mills staged a protest demonstration for
the  reinstatement of their services. The leaders of the All Pakistan Clerk
Association (APCA) staged a protest demonstration in favour of their demands.
The people of the Kolhi community, residents of Nangarparkar staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the accused rapists of Kastoori.

The members of the Hyderabad Action Committee staged a protest demonstration
against the construction of a power plant at the Chashma Canal . The people of
the Mallah community, residents of Fazil Rahu area staged a protest
demonstration against the atrocities of influential men of their area.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Paducah Sun (Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 27, 2007 Saturday

Group to protest war today: The protest will be by the Chief Wacinton statue in
Noble Park.

BYLINE: The Paducah Sun, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


Jan. 27-- -- The Simon-Barkley Democracy for America group and the Patriots for
Peace will sponsor a protest against the Iraq War from 10 a.m. to noon today in
Paducah.

The protest will be near the Chief Wacinton Indian Statue in Noble Park along
Park Avenue. The gathering is open to anyone and will be in conjunction with a
larger protest in Washington, D.C. today.

Information: Charles Schneider at 554-7349 or Merryman Kemp at 442-7636.

Copyright (c) 2007, The Paducah Sun, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070127-PA-0127-Group-to-protest-war-today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PA


                         Copyright 2007 The Paducah Sun


                              81 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 11, 2016 Friday

Small groups stage protest, counter protest at Lyons Township High School

BYLINE: Annemarie Mannion, Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


Nov. 11--A small group of students from Lyons Township High School staged a
protest, saying they are taking a stand against racist and other derogatory
remarks they've received since the election of Donald Trump.

The students, about 10 of them, gathered at the north campus in La Grange and
carried signs with such statements as "Make Bridges Not Walls." They walked in
silence down Cossitt Avenue to the fountain next to La Grange Village Hall on
Friday afternoon.

The protest was organized by senior Josh Leak, 17, of La Grange Park.

"After the election we've experienced a lot of hateful comments. We just want to
be heard," he said.

Leak said the comments have been against people of color and lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgendered students. He said they wanted to end their walk in
the downtown business district to present a diverse face to the community.

"We want to be heard and seen and go into a predominantly white area," he said.

Even before the protest was held after school, another small group of students
organized another counter protest that they called "an anti protest protest."

Colin Kubacki, a senior from Western Springs, put together the counter protest.

"This is not pro Trump," he said. "This is anti protest."

Henry Groya, 18, a senior from La Grange, said the group, that numbered about a
dozen, was made up of students with various political views. He said he thinks
people need to accept the election results.

"The results are the results. Suck it up," he said.

The group led by Kubacki walked around the school and took a more jocular
approach to the event they staged.

Leak, who said he is a student activist for Black Lives Matters, said he plans
to organize more protests.

"There is still lots of racism going on, discrimination against LGBQT, and
(against) women's rights," he said.

amannion@tribpub.com

___ (c)2016 Pioneer Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) Visit Pioneer
Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161111-PIO-Small-groups-stage-protest-counter-protest
-at-Lyons-Township-High-School-1111-20161111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PIO


                          Copyright 2016 Pioneer Press


                              82 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Adnkronos International, Rome

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

Morocco: Authorities give nod to anti-govt protests organised on Facebook

BYLINE: Adnkronos International, Rome

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


Feb. 04--RABAT, Morocco - In an unprecedented move, Moroccan authorities have
okayed an anti-government protest being planned on the popular social networking
site Facebook, local newspaper Hespress reports.

The paper said several Moroccan youth movements have announced on Facebook that
they are planning to organise an Egypt-style anti-government protest on 20
February, a move apparently welcomed by the government.

"We intend to reassure those who are organising protests on the internet that
this is an entirely normal thing and is part of the democratic life of Morocco,"
Hespress quoted telecommunications minister Khaled al-Nasiri, as saying.

The protest will counter a rally planned this Sunday by government supporters,
which is also being organised on Facebook.

"We are used to such initiatives growing up and have for years been open to
freedom of opinion and expression," al-Nasiri said.

Anti-government protests began in Egypt last week aimed at ousting its
authoritarian president Hosni Mubarak from power and mass protests have also
been taking place in Yemen against its president Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has
been in power for 30 years.

The protests appear to have drawn inspiration from a revolt in Tunisia which
ousted president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from office after over 23 years in
power in what was dubbed the "Jasmine" revolution.

To see more of the Adnkronos International, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to www.adnkronos.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Adnkronos International, Rome
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110204-YR-MOROCCO-ANTI-GOVT-PROTESTS-FACEBOOK-20110204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YR


                                 Copyright 2011


                              83 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Columbus Telegram (Nebraska)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

Supervisors set valuation protest dates

BYLINE: Eric Freeman, Columbus Telegram, Neb.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 728 words


Jun. 16--COLUMBUS -- The Platte County Board of Supervisors set the 2009 real
property valuation protest hearings to begin at 1 p.m. Tuesday, July 20, and 9
a.m. Wednesday and Thursday, July 21-22.

If needed, hearings will continue on Friday, July 23. As of Tuesday a total of
55 protest forms had been submitted at the Platte County Clerk's office.

The deadline to file a protest with the county clerk's office is Wednesday, June
30.

A total of 195 protests were scheduled last year in time for the June 30 protest
filing deadline.

Those considering a protest are encouraged to contact the assessor's office for
an explanation of the changes before filing a protest. The information can also
be accessed online by completing a property search at
www.plattecounty.net/assessor.htm.

The required valuation protest Form 422 can be obtained at the Platte County
Clerk's office at the Platte County Courthouse, 2610 14th St. or online at
www.plattecounty.net/protest.htm.

The supervisors voted no to an offer to settle a freedom of information act
court action between the Platte County Assessor's office and County Records
Inc., an Oklahoma based firm.

Supervisor Holly Olk had made a motion to accept a settlement offer brought
forward by Platte County Attorney Carl Hart which would have provided County
Records, Inc. a monthly report in electronic format detailing property
assessment records at a fee of $20 per month with the company providing a
portable data drive for the information. The company would also have received
GIS mapping data, sketches and photographs on a semi-annual basis at a fee of
$20 twice per year.

County Records Inc. is a for profit company that uses the information to provide
plat maps and assessment products for sale to individuals and, potentially,
other for profit organizations.

"If the board approves this settlement today, the company has agreed to drop the
law suit and we can all go on our way," Hart said.

Hart had assured the board that Platte County Assessor Vanora Mulligan had
worked diligently to arrive at the $20 fee as being a reasonable fee for the raw
data requested which is public information.

Supervisor Myron Franzen insisted the request for public information should have
to be made by the company each month and that in his opinion the $20 fee was not
enough to cover the expense to the county and the assessor's office in providing
the information.

"There was, at the beginning of this situation no process for extracting the
data the company wanted and so at that time there was significant time spent in
finding a reasonable way to provide the data," Hart said. "Now there is a way to
do it and the process is as simple as plugging in a flash drive , starting the
process and in about 30 minutes have what is needed and requested."

Hart explained that if the board chose to deny the settlement and the case goes
poorly for Platte County that the county could be liable for the attorneys fees
of County Records Inc.

The supervisors were concerned that the company was using the public information
for profit and most agreed the $20 fee was not enough.

"Under current law why they use the information can not be considered when
determining what is a reasonable cost for the information," Hart said.

In the end Hart was directed to return to negotiations with County Records Inc.
and secure a higher fee for the information and mechanisms in any agreement
reached to re-evaluate or assess the cost of providing the information on at
least an annual basis.

In other business, the board of supervisors approved support of CASA (Court
Appointed Special Advocates) in the amount of $15,000, which will be more fully
addressed in the upcoming budget cycle. The board approved the amount to cover a
budget deficit of $15,145.66 reported from the Platte County Treasurer. A
permissive tax exemption for Rainbow Inc. a non-profit organization that
provides residential services to mentally ill clients also was approved.

To see more of the Columbus Telegram, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.columbustelegram.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Columbus Telegram, Neb.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100616-CU-HLT-Supervisors-set-valuation-protest-dates-0616

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CU


                        Copyright 2010 Columbus Telegram


                              84 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                              June 19, 2009 Friday

Avoid those futile protests

BYLINE: Samuel Yesuiah

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 390 words


I REFER to your report ("Minister warns foreign students" - NST, June 17) on the
staging of demonstrations.

A group of 700 Iranian university students had demonstrated on Monday over the
results of the Iranian presidential elections. The police had to fire tear gas
to disperse the unruly crowd.

Foreign students and workers should never abuse their stay in this country. If
they have come here to study or work, then they should do just that. This rule
should also apply to local students and Malaysians as a whole.

The staging of protests and demonstrations outside embassy buildings, places of
worship and public places should not be encouraged with or without police
permits. .

Such protests and demonstrations prevent the people from going about their daily
duties.

There is also the feeling of tension and fear of things getting out of hand with
such boisterous crowds.

However peaceful these assemblies are, it takes only a small misunderstanding or
scuffle for the gathering to turn into chaos. Therefore, it is important that
the government views such protests and demonstrations by locals and foreigners
seriously.

The recent staging of the protest against the alleged killing of Tamils in Sri
Lanka at Batu Caves temple by hundreds of people and Tamil members of parliament
is a case in point.

However noble the intentions are in staging a protest or demonstration, it
should be avoided at all costs for the peace and security of the nation.

As the letter "Not the place for a protest" (NST, May 27) has clearly indicated,
a protest of this nature should never have been staged in the temple grounds.
The organisers of the protest had little regard for the sentiments of devotees
and the sanctity of the temple grounds.

As the letter suggested, it would be ideal to hold such protests and
demonstrations in an indoor stadium as it would be easier to keep the protesters
under control and it would not inconvenience others. It has become the norm the
world over for people to stage protests and demonstrate in their home countries
against incidents in other countries.

The alleged killing of Tamils in Sri Lanka has fuelled protests by Tamils in
England, Australia and Europe against the Sri Lankan government.

However widespread these protests are, they would not have any bearing on what
the Sri Lankan government does.

SAMUEL YESUIAH

Seremban

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                            January 25, 2005 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Council hears proposals for changes to bid appeals

BYLINE: DEENA WINTER, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 512 words


To try to prevent frivolous protests from being filed when businesses are vying
for contracts with Lincoln, city officials proposed increasing the protest
filing fee from $50 to $500 during a public hearing Monday night.

The Lincoln City Council held a public hearing on the proposal, part of a
package of ordinance changes proposed by city officials at the direction of
Mayor Coleen Seng. The mayor requested the changes after three protests recently
prolonged the awarding of a bid to build up to seven new fire trucks.

The current appeals process was created in 1993, and since then protests have
been filed on seven different bids, according to city Finance Director Don Herz.

The proposed amendment clarifies the deadlines for filing protests, increases
the protest filing fee from $50 to $500 and clarifies who may file a protest. It
also allows the city to award a contract while a protest is underway.

Councilman Jon Camp questioned the need for changes when the city has averaged
less han one protest per year 1993.

"Really, to say there's been frivolous protests would be an overstatement,"
Camp said. "I think maybe we're overreacting here."

He said increasing the filing fee might be enough to prevent frivolous protests.

Currently, a protest stops the bidding process in its tracks. The changes would
let the city proceed.

In other business, the council listened to a request by Talent Plus to assign
the address "One Talent Plus Way? to a driveway near its headquarters, at 65th
Street and Pioneers Boulevard. Talent Plus is a human resources consulting firm.

Talent Plus Chairman Doug Rath said the simple address helps brand and market
the company and helps them compete internationally. The address would be
assigned to the building, not on a street sign. The company already uses the One
Talent Plus Way address in the Alltel phone directory and on a sign in front of
the Talent Plus building.

Mark Hunzeker, an attorney representing Talent Plus, said granting the address
designation would be a ?very small token? of appreciation from the city to the
business for keeping its headquarters in Lincoln.

But the U.S. Postal Service and police chief opposed the address, saying the
city should not set a precedent of allowing ?vanity addresses? rather than legal
addresses that more accurately reflect the locations of businesses.

Lincoln Police Chief Tom Casady said emergency responders wouldn't have trouble
finding the building, since it's a large landmark, but the departure from
previous addressing protocol could open the door to ?weird addresses? that
aren't so easy to find.

Council members expressed appreciation that the company is located in Lincoln,
but worried that the unusual address could set a precedent.

But Hunzeker said the action would not likely ?bring down a torrent of these
kinds of applications."

"I don't understand why this is all that difficult," he said.

The council will decide on both the bidding changes and Talent Plus address at
its next meeting.

Reach Deena Winter at 473-2642 or dwinter@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 25, 2013 Wednesday

BRIEF: Mass protests participants in Turkey to stand trial

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 166 words


Dec. 25--Some 255 participants of mass protests in Turkey will stand trial,
Anadolu agency reported on Dec. 25.

They are accused of holding illegal protests, damaging public and private
property, as well as marauding, according to the report.

The accused persons also included seven foreign nationals. Their nationality was
not specified.

Anti-government protests took place in Turkey for nearly three weeks beginning
in late May. Turkish oppositional parties accused Turkish police of using
excessive force against protestors. In total, around 2.5 million people from 79
Turkish provinces participated in protests during the three weeks, the Turkish
Interior Ministry said.

As a result of the unrests in Turkey nearly 4,000 people were injured with
varying severity, 4,900 were detained by the police.

Translated by E.A.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131225-1AZ-BRF-Mass-protests
-participants-in-Turkey-to-stand-trial-1225-20131225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              87 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Egypt security forces disperse protest in Alexandria

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 162  words


CAIRO, Nov 27 (Aswat Masriya) - Egyptian security forces fired teargas to
disperse a protest staged in support of 21 detained Islamist women in Alexandria
on Wednesday.

The women were arrested by security forces earlier in November as they attempted
to stage a protest to back deposed President Mohamed Mursi before his trial.

The detained women, aged 15 to 25, stand trial on Wednesday on charges of
disrupting traffic and vandalizing public property during their protests.

Nasser al-Abd, a senior security official in Alexandria, said that the
defendants did not have permits to protest and they stood outside a vital
installation which is the court.

Their protests took place before the new protest law, which largerly restricts
protests, was ratified. The new law requires that protesters notify the
authorities of demonstrations three days prior to it.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>All rights reserved 2013 Aswat Masriya ©Provided
by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2013 Aswat Masriya
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                            August 27, 2013 Tuesday

ECP takes notice of PTI by-polls rigging protest

LENGTH: 150  words


The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) has taken notice of the protest of the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) against rigging during the by-election in PP-150.
The ECP has decided to hear the PTI's petition seeking a recount in PP-150 and
summoned all candidates who contested for the seat on August 28.

The PTI continues its protest against alleged rigging and party leaders and
workers are staging a sit-in outside the Punjab Assembly. According to reports,
PTI workers assaulted members of the press during the protest.

On Saturday, several party leaders and workers had been arrested during a police
crackdown on their protest camp on Mall Road. The police claimed protests could
not be held in the area due to the imposition of Section 144. Later, those
arrested were released and they continued their protest on Mall Road. The
protest ended when party leadership decided to continue it from Monday.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Iranian TV news 0930 gmt 1 April 11

LENGTH: 342 words


A. Headlines

B. Home and world news:

1. 0931 Traffic report on the 12th day of New Year holidays. Video shows heavy
traffic on roads.

2. 0933 Interview via video link with traffic police on the situation on roads.

3. 0937 Worshippers in Yemen, Jordan, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia are preparing for
anti-government protests after Friday prayers.

4. 0938 Report on protests yesterday in Yemen in memory of those killed in
previous protests. Video shows opposition members talking, previous protests.

5. 0940 The funeral procession of a young man, who was killed in protests in
Bahrain, started a new protests gathering. Video shows protests, military forces
on streets.

6. 0941 Report on Qadhafi's envoy holding talks with the West in London. Report
says Western media have started a psychological war against Qadhafi after the
defection of his foreign minister. Video shows interview with experts, scenes of
fighting, US officials commenting.

7. 0945 Weather report.

8. 0945 Seyyed Ahmad Khatami led Friday prayers. He stressed the importance of
economic Jihad.

9. 0946 Report on the funeral of Reza Saftari, a young radio and TV film maker
who died of heart attack yesterday.

10. 0948 The Organization of Islamic Conference has called on Muslim countries
to condemn desecration of the Koran and has urged the UN to take a stance
against such actions. Video shows meeting of OIC.

11. 0950 Report on the conference of Asian mayors in Turkey. Video shows Tehran
Mayor, Qalibaf at the conference, talking to reporters.

12. 0952 Facebook's removal of a page, which called for a third intifadeh in the
Palestinian territories and unity against Israel, has caused uproar.

13. 0953 The resignation of the Kuwaiti cabinet has been accepted by the Emir of
Kuwait.

14. 0953 Indian population has grown to one fifth of the world population. Video
shows a lot of people on streets in India.

15. 0954 Calendar/ prayer times

16. 0955 Recap of headlines

17. 0955 End of bulletin.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
0930 gmt 1 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday

Burma: Mass protests against fuel oil price increases continue in Rangoon

LENGTH: 302 words


Excerpt from report by Norway-based Burmese Democratic Voice of Burma on 21
August

Protests against the military regime increasing fuel oil prices continued in
Rangoon today and democracy activists warned that protests would be staged
nationwide tomorrow.

Protests were reported in at least four locations of Rangoon. People who are
organizing the mass protests tomorrow informed Democratic Voice of Burma that
the first protest was led by members of the National League for Democracy (NLD)
with about 50 people walking from Yankin to the NLD Headquarters. The second
protest march was by 88 Generation Students and NLD youths who walked from Tamwe
to the NLD headquarters. The third protest took place near Theingyi Market but
no details are available yet. The fourth protest was staged by students of Dagon
University, Rangoon East University, and Tarwa University, who walked in
procession without riding buses.

Although there were attempts by the Union Solidarity and Development Association
and [its affiliated] Swan-Arr-Shin ["People with Power"] members to stop these
protest marches, no instances of arrest or physical assault were reported.

The organizers also said that the monks and the workers were also initiating
their own protests.

These protests started because the military regime raised fuel oil prices by 100
to 500 per cent last Wednesday [ 15 August].

On Sunday, the 88 Generation Students and about 500 people staged a peaceful
march in Rangoon and the other forces started joining the protest today.

Ko Htin Kyaw and his group members who have been leading the campaign against
high commodity prices have publicly announced that protests will be staged in
Rangoon as well as other places nationwide tomorrow. [Passage omitted]

Source: Democratic Voice of Burma, Oslo, in Burmese 1430 gmt 21 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

BRIEF: President: Comparing protests in Turkey with unrest in Middle East is
wrong

BYLINE: R. Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 157 words


June 12--It is wrong to compare the protests in Turkey with the unrest in the
Middle East, Turkish President Abdullah Gul said during his visit to the Rize
province, TRT Haber TV channel reported today.

Gul said that every citizen has the right to protest in Turkey, but it must be
within the democracy.

He added that the countries, criticising Turkey, incorrectly assess the
situation. Such protests also occur in those countries.

Protests have been taking place in various Turkish cities for more than two
weeks. According to the authorities, the protests are of an anti-government
character.

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is expected to meet with a
delegation of Taksim Square protesters.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Taksim Square, Abdullah Gul

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130612-1AZ-BRF-President-Comparing-protests
-in-Turkey-with-unrest-in-Middle-East-is-wrong-0612-20130612

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              92 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 14, 2011 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1797

LENGTH: 197  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people for the acceptance of
their demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.

According to details, the activists of the PML-N district Hyderabad under the
leadership of Comrade Qadir Bux Lakho and others staged a protest demonstration
against the party's provincial leadership for neglecting them. The members of
the Left Unity Hyderabad under the leadership of Comrade Latif Laghari, Comrade
Iqbal Mallah and others staged a protest demonstration against dictatorship in
the Middle East.

A man namely Khair Muhammad Chohan, resident of Kotri staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of his son Muhammad Sadiq Chohan.
The residents of Matiari staged a protest demonstration against the actions of
the Matiari Police. The activists of the Sunni Tehreek Hyderabad staged a
protest demonstration against the Hyderabad Police. The flood affectees of Dadu
staged a protest demonstration against the non provision of basic facilities to
them.

Meanwhile, the members of HAC under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Ramzan
Brohi, Akhtar Sindhi and others continued their protest demonstration against
the Habib Group.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             August 27, 2010 Friday

PTCL employees protest continues for salary raise

LENGTH: 167  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Aug. 27 -- Employees of Pakistan Telecommunications Corporation Limited
(PTCL) are continuing their protest in Lahore for the second day; they have also
indicated a country wide strike.

Yesterday they staged a protest for a salary raise in front of the Lahore Press
Club. One employee tried to burn himself in protest, but others foiled his
attempt.

PTCL employees started their protest on Egerton Road and took the protest rally
up to the Lahore Press Club.

Furious PTCL employees brought out a ceremonial funeral of the management; upon
reaching the Press Club, they burnt it.

During the protest, one PTCL employee Abdul Ghafoor was chanting slogans against
the management and beating his chest in protest. In between, he suddenly tried
to burn himself but fellow protesters foiled his attempt Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 20, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OVER 150,000 IN AUSTRIA PROTEST FAR-RIGHT PARTY'S RULE;
DEMONSTRATORS IN VIENNA SHOUT SLOGANS CRITICAL OF RIGHT-WING LEADER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, AUSTRIA


More than 150,000 flag-waving demonstrators crammed a historic Vienna square on
a cold, rainy Saturday evening in the largest protest yet against a far-right
party's inclusion in the Austrian government.

Throughout the day, tens of thousands of protesters gathered for smaller rallies
at different spots throughout the city. Others marched through the streets,
blowing whistles and shouting slogans critical of the government and Joerg
Haider, leader of the right-wing Freedom Party.

Later, they converged on the Heldenplatz, or Heroes' Square, where thousands of
Austrians welcomed Adolf Hitler as Nazi German troops arrived in 1938.

"We have to prevent right-wing nationalism from creeping into Austria again,"
Hans Marschalek, head of the inmates association from Austria's Mauthausen
concentration camp, told a cheering crowd of 30,000 gathered in front of the
ornate neo-Grecian Parliament Building.

A banner that was hung from police barricades around the building read: "Haider
is Hitler."

Vienna police and state television estimated the crowd at 150,000 by evening.
Austrian state television estimated that 1,000 more people continued to stream
into the plaza each minute an hour after the rally began.

Overall, the demonstrations were peaceful. The atmosphere varied throughout the
city, from festive in downtown Vienna, where artists decorated the sidewalks of
the city's posh shopping district with anti-Nazi symbols, to that of an earnest
political rally outside Parliament.

The Ringstrasse, the main road around Vienna, was a sea of mostly hand-painted,
colorful banners: "Being ruled by the Freedom Party hurts our souls"; "Join in
to help in the retention of human dignity"; "Austria, you mournful country,
being ruined by black and blue hands." The last slogan referred to the political
colors of the Freedom Party and its coalition partner, the mainstream
conservative People's Party.

Anti-government rallies have become a near-daily practice in Vienna since the
new government coalition took office Feb. 4. The European Union, Israel and the
United States have taken measures to isolate Austria diplomatically.

The outrage stems from Haider's opposition to immigration and rapid European
Union expansion, as well as previous statements praising some Nazi policies and
excoriating immigrants. He has since apologized.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Photo - Demonstrators crowd Vienna's
Heldenplatz on Saturday to protest the inclusion of Joerg Haider's Freedom Party
in the Austrian government. Protests occurred throughout the city.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             April 11, 2016 Monday

733 protests in the first quarter of 2016: observatory report

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 418 words


Independent observatory Democracy Index said in its periodic report that 733
protests took place over the first quarter of 2016 with an average of 245
protests per month and 6 daily across Egyptian cities.

Democracy Index based the quarterly report on media reports from five local
newspapers, an independent fact checking unit, field reporting, official reports
and previously published statistics, and figures on movements by organisations
and groups critical of the regime in Egypt.

The latest figure indicates a similar pace of protesting compared to the latest
quarter of 2015, during which there were 730 protests with an average of 244
protests per month.

The reasons behind the protests were attributed to economic and social demands
for 74% of the total number of protests monitored in the report, whereas
politically motivated protests represented only 26% of the protests.

The economic demands were brought about by delay in payment of salaries for
workers, not receiving incentives, and arbitrary expulsion among other issues.

In early April, dozens of workers in the Nile Cotton Ginning Company went on an
open strike inside the company's headquarters in Mahalla, demanding the payment
of late salaries.

Earlier in 2016, Egypt witnessed more protests from taxi drivers who protested
against the emerging Uber and Careem services.

Meanwhile, the past few months were marked by a wave of protests demanding civil
and political rights. The release of political detainees topped the list of
those demands. According to the report, 63 protests took to the streets
demanding the immediate release of detainees with 45 protests on the fifth
anniversary of 25 January Revolution.

On the anniversary of the revolution, protesters affiliated with the Muslim
Brotherhood took to the streets in small groups in several governorates. All
over the country minor protests took place, leading to clashes with riot police,
and leaving dozens arrested. Although the official number of arrests has not
been confirmed, lawyers estimated that 60 protesters were detained.

Following the ouster of the Muslim Brotherhood regime in 2013, the interim
cabinet issued a new law to regulate protests--the controversial Protest Law--in
November 2013 amid bloody clashes between Brotherhood supporters and security
forces.

Since the law was enacted, it has been used to build several cases against
students and activists, on charges of "illegal assembly". Thousands have been
arrested in Egypt since then, according to Amnesty International.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2016 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Advocate (Burnie)

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Rylah slams peaceful protests

BYLINE: JASON THOMAS

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 208 words


A PEACEFUL protest against logging has been labelled as a job- destroying
campaign by Braddon Liberal candidate Joan Rylah.

Fearless Summer is holding protests across Australia this summer, including
Tasmania in January, to voice its concerns about logging.

Ms Rylah compared the planned protests to what she called the "anti-everything"
protests of last year, while defending the counter pro-mining and logging
demonstrations.

Holding a peaceful protest about an important issue would not hurt anyone,
Fearless Summer spokesperson Miranda Gibson said.

"Such events support the community to take safe and effective actions in
expressing their concerns and highlighting the destruction of native forests,"
Ms Gibson said.

Ms Gibson said inciting hatred towards one world view, while praising another,
meant Joan Rylah was ill-suited for state parliament. Rather than seek to
destroy jobs, the peaceful protests would be a chance for Tasmanians to make a
statement, Ms

Gibson said.

Ms Rylah said it would be a new round of conflict for business.

Before the protests, the group will hold training days about conducting peaceful
protests.

The Fearless Summer group has not confirmed the details of the protest in early
January, but said details were on its website.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                           September 20, 2013 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

Public order units may be needed to cope with protests

BYLINE:  Xolani Koyana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


POLICE Minister Nathi and police commissioner Riah Phiyegahave alluded to the
re-establishment of specialised public order units as an increase in the number
of violent protests in the country contributed to a rise in other serious
crimes.

The country saw an increase, with police responding to 12 399 protests between
April 2012 and March 2013 nationally, Mthethwa said at the release of the latest
crime statistics yesterday.

The Western Cape experienced 1 243 incidents of protests. KwaZulu-Natal recorded
the most number of protests - 2 609.

Between September and January, the Western Cape was hit with a wave of protests
in De Doorns, Robertson, Ceres, Wolseley, Swellendam and other farming towns in
the Boland with workers demanding better wages. There were also strikes by bus
drivers and Metrorail security guards.

Phiyega said protests nationally were a challenge and taking up resources meant
for visible policing.

"We need to deal with these visible policing constraints upfront. In this
regard, we are looking into beefing up our public order policing resources.

The public order police unit was disbanded in 2006.

Of the 12 399 national protests, 10 517 were peaceful and 1 882 were violent
public protests.

Police opened 693 various criminal cases as a result of the protests. Mthethwa
said the surge in violent protests contributed to an increase in the number of
arson attacks reported, damage to property and common robbery.

"There are some instances where these have led to criminal elements being able
to make use of public gatherings and protests to pursue criminal acts.

"You will also realise that some of these protests result in murder... ,"
Mthethwa said.

Community Safety MEC Dan Plato said he was encouraged by Mthethwa and Phiyega's
statements. He said the units would prevent the increasing number of violent and
illegal protests.

"While the public have a right to take part in peaceful protests in our
democracy, there is no excuse to resort to violence, and I look forward to
Minister Mthethwa ensuring that the SAPS are adequately trained and resourced to
deal effectively with illegal protesters," Plato said.

xolani.koyana@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

Rights centre: 1462 protests in Egypt during April

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 101  words


Egypt witnessed 1462 protests during April, making it the top country worldwide
in number of protests during that month, a report for the International
Development Centre (IDC) has said.

April's record number compares with 1354 protests in March and 864 in February.

Forty-seven categories of Egyptians staged the protests.

Economic and social demands were the major drive for 62.4 percent of the
protests.

The main demands of these protests included releasing detainees and toppling the
regime.

The protests also included demonstrations to supportthe Copts' religious beliefs
and condemnassaults on the judiciary.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2013 Aswat Masriya
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   Bikya News

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

1462 protests in Egypt during April

LENGTH: 103  words


CAIRO: Egypt witnessed 1462 protests during April, making it the top country
worldwide in number of protests during that month, a report for the
International Development Centre (IDC) has said.

April's record number compares with 1354 protests in March and 864 in February.

Forty-seven categories of Egyptians staged the protests.

Economic and social demands were the major drive for 62.4 percent of the
protests.

The main demands of these protests included releasing detainees and toppling the
regime.

The protests also included demonstrations to support the Copts' religious
beliefs and condemn assaults on the judiciary.

BN

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 876


                           Copyright 2013 Bikya News
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 22, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Egyptian Nile News TV 1600 gmt 22 Jul 11

LENGTH: 276 words


0000 News headlines

1. 0050 Thousands of Egyptians participate in protest in Cairo's Tahrir Square
on so-called "Decisive Friday". Video report.

2. 0510 Live two-way with correspondent from Tahrir Square in downtown Cairo on
developments.

3. 1055 Protesters raise different demands, have mix reactions to new laws on
parliament. Video report.

4. 1305 Dozens of Egyptians protest in Ramsis Square in Cairo rejecting calls
for delaying parliamentary elections. Video shows protest.

5. 1355 Coalitions of "silent majority" stage protest in Roxi Square in Cairo to
support ruling military council. Video report.

6. 1520 Live interview at studio with Egyptian journalist on today's protests.

7. 2035 Thousands of Egyptians protest in Alexandria demanding fulfillment of
"revolution's demands". Video shows protest.

8. 2130 Live two-way with correspondent from Alexandria on developments.

9. 2615 Interview with journalist at studio resumed.

10. 2920 Egyptians protest in Suez demanding quick reform. Video shows protest.

11. 3000 Live two-way with correspondent from Suez on protests.

12. 3200 Midway headlines.

13. 3315 Syrian rights activists say eight protesters were killed as security
forces dispersed their rallies in Halab and Hims. Video shows protest.

14. 3355 Libyan rebels say top aide of Al-Qadhafi, Mansur Daw, was seriously
wounded in rocket attack in Tripoli; Other developments in Libya. Video report.

15. 3750 Hundreds of Jordanians protest in Amman demanding reform. Video shows
protest.

16. 3835 International news.

17. 4115 Economic news.

18. 4600 Light news.

19. 4950 Sports news.

20. 5500 Closing headlines.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1600gmt 22 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

Teachers plan protest drive for acceptance of demands

BYLINE:  Statesman Report

SECTION: Vol. 9 No. 728

LENGTH: 243  words


The Muttahida Mahaz-i-Asteza (MMA) has decided to launch a protest movement
across the province from May 20 to mark their protest against federal and
provincial governments for failing to meet their demands regarding 100 per cent
raise in salaries.

The decision was made during a meeting with president of MMA Khairullah Khan
Hawari in the chair here on Sunday.

The meeting decided to hold protest camps from May 20 in the first phase of the
protest drive followed by protests in the districts.

In the second phase the MMA will hold a protest camp in front of the Parliament.

The president said that the protest movement includes rallies, demonstrations
and meetings besides pen-down strike in government institutions.

He said that the government endeavours are nothing but total disgrace and insult
to the teaching community.

He also expressed his resentment and anguish over spending billions of rupees on
enforcement of English medium school system in Urdu medium institutions and
holding of training courses for schoolteachers.

The meeting said that besides announcing additional educational allowance, the
government should introduce a health insurance policy for teachers instead of
giving them meagre medical allowance in their salaries.

The participants of the meeting further said that teachers and other staff
cannot wait any longer and the recommendations of Pay and Pension Committee
should be implemented in the budget for the fiscal year 2010-2011.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             August 3, 2008 Sunday

Beijing spells out the rules for protesters during the Games

BYLINE: Josephine Ma in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words


Beijing has issued a detailed list of  procedures to follow for those wanting to
hold public protests during the Olympic Games.

The move comes after   an activist was detained and sent home while  trying to
lodge  an application to stage a demonstration in one of three designated
protest zones.

Protest organisers will have to submit an application to the relevant public
security bureau five days before they want to hold their protest, together with
their ID cards, according to a notice posted on the official Bocog website.

Organisers  are also asked to assign people to help the police maintain  order
during the protest and wear badges for easy identification,   Liu Shaowu,
director of the Beijing Organising Committee for the Olympic Games'  security
department, said on the website.

The removed activist    was sent home on Friday. She had been representing some
100 homeowners from Suzhou and was at  the Beijing Municipal Public Security
Bureau to hand in an application to protest in a designated protest zone.

Anti-Japanese activists have also been  told they will not be given permission
to stage protests.

According to the website,  foreign applicants have been  asked to provide a
Chinese translation of their application documents.  State agencies, private
companies and NGOs have to  chop the document with their official seal  as well
as getting it signed by   the head of the organisation.

The relevant public security agencies will  decide on whether to allow the
protest  two days before the planned protest date and will notify applicants in
writing,  Mr Liu said.

If applicants have not received any feedback two days before the planned
protest,  they should assume their application has been turned down.

The three protest parks would remain open to the public even if protests took
place, although security measures would be implemented,  he said.

"Parks are recreational venues for the public and they will open as usual. Of
course, if there are any  protests or demonstrations, Beijing police and the
park authorities  will take appropriate measures  to ensure the protests go
smoothly.   Visitors will be informed about these measures in advance," he said.

The public  would be told when approved protests would  take place in the
designated zones.

He also reiterated that protests should not jeopardise the interests of the
country, although  he did not explain what constituted  national interests.

Beijing announced 10 days ago that it had designated areas in three  parks for
protests  during the Olympics.

The parks are in the Beijing districts of Fengtai, Haidian and Chaoyang,   areas
of the sprawling capital a long way from the Olympic Green.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                             July 21, 2016 Thursday

\c\SPage 3 FS Lead

BYLINE: TSHIMOLOGO LEEUW

LENGTH: 370 words


TSHIMOLOGO LEEUW

LEADING civil society organisations in the country have formed an alliance to
promote the peaceful resolution of public protests.

The Coalition Against Violence (CAV) is made up of organisations working to
prevent violent protests and is coordinated by the Centre for the Study of
Violence and Reconciliation (CSVR) and the Institute for Security Studies (ISS).

CSVR executive director Nomfundo Mogapi said that they were very concerned at
the increasing number of violent protests ahead of the local government
elections. "The coalition will draw attention to the trends and put pressure on
the government and political parties to act appropriately."

The coalition was formed following a meeting to review the state of violent
protests in the country.

"Municipalities must take applications to hold a protest seriously, the right to
protest, demonstrate or strike is entrenched in Section 17 of South Africa's
Constitution and this needs to be respected," ISS researcher Lizette Lancaster
said.

CAV will focus on addressing the triggers that increase the risk of protests
turning violent.

"The causes of violent protests in South Africa are complex, but this doesn't
mean that protest action should be discouraged or that appropriate responses
can't be taken to minimise the impact of violence in the weeks ahead," Mogapi
said. Research by ISS and CSVR shows that a range of factors can influence
whether or not protests become violent and these include the conduct of leaders,
law enforcement agencies, government departments or private companies that may
be the target of protests.

According to Lancaster, the key question is why many communities feel peaceful
protests are not working to resolve their grievances.

"We know people often resort to violence after other avenues have been
exhausted. Violence is a desperate expression of dissatisfaction. Underlying
issues such as socioeconomic exclusion, inequality, poverty, unemployment and
unresolved trauma related to our past all come into play. Communities feel
stripped of their dignity and mistrust those in authority," Lancaster said.

The coalition aims to promote human dignity in how the government engages with
communities.

tshimol@ann7.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           Agency Tunis Afrique Press

                              June 17, 2016 Friday

Social protests down 46% in May 2016

LENGTH: 156 words


(TAP) - Social protests have decreased by 46% in May 2016 compared to April,
2016.

During a press briefing held Friday in Tunis, Abdessatar Sahbani, member of the
Tunisian Forum for Economic and Social Rights (FTDES) said 529 social protests
were recorded in May, against 987 in April 2016.

Presenting the results of the report on social protests for May 2016 prepared by
the Tunisian Social Observatory under the FTDES, Sahbani added that the region
of Kairouan has occupied the first place in protest movements with 80, followed
by the region of Gafsa with 60 protests and Greater Tunis (50) and Kasserine
(42), pointing to a decrease in social protests in education and also
politically and socially driven ones, against rising sporting and economic
protests.

Sahbani said social movements will further decrease in the coming months as they
coincide with the summer period and Ramadan.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/142/392/42/146620158317.JPG



LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 392


                               Copyright 2016 Tap
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Oroville Mercury Register (California)

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Too few protests to halt plan

BYLINE: By Ryan Olson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


Oroville >> A preliminary review of submitted protests indicates there are too
few to outright halt the annexation of the first area of Southside Oroville into
the city.

Local officials were still verifying protests from registered voters to
determine if there are enough to call a mail election over the annexation of the
neighborhood of 2,392 residents east of Lincoln Boulevard and south of Wyandotte
Avenue.

State law required the Butte Local Agency Formation Commission to hold a protest
process after it approved the city of Oroville's application to annex the
203-acre area Feb. 5. The period to submit written protests began March 12 and
ended with a hearing Monday.

Under the protest process, annexation is halted if more than 50 percent of
either registered voters or landowners protest. A mail election is called if
between 25 to 50 percent of either group protests.

Annexation continues if less than 25 percent of either group protests.

LAFCO executive officer Steve Lucas said Wednesday the number of landowner
protests was insufficient to cancel annexation or call for a vote. Protesting
landowners needed to represent about $19 million of land value to halt
annexation or $9.5 million to force an election.

Regarding registered voters, Lucas said the 408 submitted registered voter
protests fell short of the 438 needed to stop the process.

Some protests invalid

LAFCO staff spent the day verifying the written protests to determine if there
were enough to

Annex Â» Page 5

meet the 219-vote threshold to force an election. Lucas said a preliminary
review showed a large number of protests would be invalid, but didn't have more
detailed figures by the end of the day.

He said protests may be disqualified for any number of reasons, including
residents who aren't registered voters or whose information didn't match voter
rolls.

Lucas said protests also needed to be completed by the person who signed the
document. Some protests were partially written in different colored inks or
different handwriting.

The final tally would be presented to the LAFCO board during its May 7 meeting.

One Faunce Way landowner told this publication that she didn't receive the mail
notice of the protest period. She had wanted to contact neighbors to submit
protests, but it was too late.

Lucas said it was possible some didn't receive a mail notice and it was
unfortunate some were missed. LAFCO mailed notices based on information from the
Assessor's Office.

Case law calls for commissions like LAFCO to make a good faith effort to contact
people. Lucas said LAFCO sends out mail notices in addition to a required public
notice in the newspaper.

After LAFCO completes its protest review of the first Southside annexation, it
will schedule the protest period for the second annexation east of the Lincoln
Boulevard area.

On March 5, the LAFCO board approved the city's annexation of the 201-acre area
generally south of Lower Wyandotte Road, east of Oro Bangor Highway and north of
both V-7 and Oroville Garden Ranch roads.

Reach reporter Ryan Olson at facebook.com/NorCalJustice and 896-7763.

Annex

From Page 1

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Oroville Mercury Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            National Herald Tribune

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

JI Balochistan to launch protest demonstrations from Dec 13

LENGTH: 302  words


Jamaat Islami (JI) Balochistan has announced to launch protest demonstrations
from December 13 to 29, 2013 across the province against NATO supply and
continued lawlessness, price hike and unemployment in the country.

Provincial Ameer JI Abdul Mateen, Secretary General Bashir Ahmed Khundai along
with other leaders said during a press conference Quetta press club that protest
demonstrations will be held on national avenues and different areas of the
province.

Provincial Ameer said, in first phase of protest demonstration, JI will arrange
APC and Tribal Councils, while will launch the movement from December 13, 2013
by holding protest on Chamman After that protest demonstration will be held in
Quetta on December 20, while on Dec 29 public protests will be arranged in
Naseerabad on the route of NATO supply. Protest will be staged on 4 main avenues
of the province, he added.

Abdul Mateen said that nation is being dragged into economic crises from the day
when Pakistan became ally of US in war against terror, and because of this,
lawlessness has spread in country.

He said, rulers seems being failed in resolving the issues of public because,
they have closed the doors of employment on youth by increasing the tax to
fulfill their own resources, while it is the responsibility of government to
provide employment to youth. Abdul Mateen said, Prime Minister (PM) Nawaz Sharif
has not worked on the hope that he had given to people before the general polls
of May 11, while he has also not taken any lesson from his past experiences.

"Matters are becoming worst due to delay in decisions because, Pervez Musharraf
went against our culture, religion and faith by supporting US in war against
terror, while it has been confirmed in Wiki Leaks that US had already planned
the attack on Afghanistan," he added.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 National Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 1, 2013 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 181

LENGTH: 166  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.

According to details, the veterinary doctors staged a protest demonstration
under the leadership of Dr Rasheed Ahmed Nizamani, Liaquat Ali Abro and others
for the provision of different facilities to them. A man named Sheeraz Ali
Chandio, resident of Jamshoro recorded a protest demonstration against the
Jamshoro Police for looting valuables from his home.

The civil society leaders staged a protest demonstration against the Secretary,
Accounts Officer and Publication Officer of the Sindhi Adabi Board. The
protestors demanded removal of the officials, otherwise they have threatened to
accelerate their protest circle. The NTS test passed candidates continued their
protest demonstration for the issuance of offer orders to them. The Meghwar
community people of SITE area recorded a protest demonstration for the recovery
of their abducted girl named Rekha Meghwar.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

Tent protesters to head from Tel Aviv to periphery;
The tent protesters today announced that this Saturday night's main protest will
be held in Beersheva.

BYLINE: Ori Chudy

LENGTH: 295 words


The tent protesters today announced that this Saturday night's main protest will
be held in Beersheva, rather than in Tel Aviv. A second protest march is planned
to take place in the north. The organizers said that the objective was to move
the center of power to the periphery.

Yesterday, the protesters published their vision for Israeli society, and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced the make-up of his team for socioeconomic
change.

Judea and Samaria Council chairman Danny Dayan visited the tent protest on
Rothschild Boulevard in Tel Aviv today. Although the Judea and Samaria Council
has not officially joined the protest, Dayan said that it was a worthy protest
that brings the entire nation together.

Dayan said, "There are a lot of settlers among the tents here. The whole people
of Israel are here. For years, I've been saying that Israeli society should be
engaged, and from this perspective, the tent camps across the country have now
created a grace period. This is the time to engage to deal with the ills of
Israeli society. This protest puts real distress on the agenda."

Dayan said that the social protest should not turn into a protest that will tear
society apart, and that this was the time to focus on solutions. As for the
issue of government spending on the settlements and whether this contradicted
social justice, he said, "There are no special incentives for the settlements
now. Not in housing nor for education, nor for anything else. We have the same
problems as everyone else. Home prices in the settlements have also soared and
their residents are middle class people par excellence."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
August 9, 2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Telegraph (Australia)

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday
                               1 - State Edition

Protests reach Jordan

BYLINE: DALE GAVLAK

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 284  words


AMMAN

HUNDREDS of Jordanians inspired by Egypt's uprising staged a protest against
Jordan's prime minister, installed just days earlier in response to
anti-government marches.

However, Jordan's main Muslim opposition group said it wants to give the new
leader a chance to carry out promised political reforms, and Friday's turnout
was much smaller than in previous protests against rising prices.

The scenes of mass protests in Egypt have riveted the Arab world, and unrest has
spread to other countries, most recently Yemen where tens of thousands on
Thursday called on their long-time president to step down.

However, expectations of large-scale protests in Arab countries after Friday's
noon prayers, the highlight of the Muslim religious week, did not materialise.

In Syria, where authoritarian President Bashar Assad has resisted calls for
political freedoms, an online campaign calling for protests in the capital,
Damascus, fizzled.

In Iraq, residents seizing on the Egypt protests staged two small demonstrations
to protest corruption in their own security forces, rampant unemployment and
scant electricity and water supply.

Even the march in the Jordanian capital of Amman on Friday was far smaller than
previous anti-government protests. Jordan's King Abdullah II has tried to
pre-empt further unrest by sacking his Cabinet earlier this week and installing
a new prime minister, Marouf al-Bakhit, amid promises of political reform.

The Islamic Action Front, the political arm of Jordan's Muslim Brotherhood, said
it is confident about change after meeting with the king and Mr al-Bakhit, a
leader of the group, Nimer al-Assaf, said.

Egypt's protesters also found support from people in Malaysia and Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STE


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2008 Sunday

China lays out rules for protesters during Olympics

LENGTH: 480 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 3
August

[Report by Josephine Ma in Beijing: "Beijing Spells Out the Rules for Protesters
During the Games"]

Beijing has issued a detailed list of procedures to follow for those wanting to
hold public protests during the Olympic Games.

The move comes after an activist was detained and sent home while trying to
lodge an application to stage a demonstration in one of three designated protest
zones.

Protest organizers will have to submit an application to the relevant public
security bureau five days before they want to hold their protest, together with
their ID cards, according to a notice posted on the official Bocog website.

Organizers are also asked to assign people to help the police maintain order
during the protest and wear badges for easy identification, Liu Shaowu, director
of the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games' security department,
said on the website.

The removed activist was sent home on Friday. She had been representing some 100
homeowners from Suzhou and was at the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau
to hand in an application to protest in a designated protest zone.

Anti-Japanese activists have also been told they will not be given permission to
stage protests.

According to the website, foreign applicants have been asked to provide a
Chinese translation of their application documents. State agencies, private
companies and NGOs have to chop the document with their official seal as well as
getting it signed by the head of the organization.

The relevant public security agencies will decide on whether to allow the
protest two days before the planned protest date and will notify applicants in
writing, Mr Liu said.

If applicants have not received any feedback two days before the planned
protest, they should assume their application has been turned down.

The three protest parks would remain open to the public even if protests took
place, although security measures would be implemented, he said.

"Parks are recreational venues for the public and they will open as usual. Of
course, if there are any protests or demonstrations, Beijing police and the park
authorities will take appropriate measures to ensure the protests go smoothly.
Visitors will be informed about these measures in advance," he said.

The public would be told when approved protests would take place in the
designated zones.

He also reiterated that protests should not jeopardise the interests of the
country, although he did not explain what constituted national interests.

Beijing announced 10 days ago that it had designated areas in three parks for
protests during the Olympics.

The parks are in the Beijing districts of Fengtai, Haidian and Chaoyang, areas
of the sprawling capital a long way from the Olympic Green.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 3 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

LETTERS

BYLINE: AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G02

LENGTH: 979 words


SPEAKING OUT

Misleading coverage

Re: Jan. 18 article "Decrying abortion, war."

Your coverage of the protests in Austin was misleading and failed to accurately
convey the scope of the day's events. The article attempted to equate the
anti-abortion protest, attended by only a few hundred, with the larger anti-war
protest that gathered more than 1,000 citizens.

Anti-war Austin residents stopped traffic to march up Congress Avenue, chanting
to end the occupation of Iraq. The protest began with a large rally that
blanketed the plaza in front of City Hall and concluded on a stage constructed
in front of the Capitol. Speakers included prominent political figures and a
University of Texas professor, both of whom spoke out against this horrible and
illegal war. All of these facts were absent from your article.

It strikes me as ironic that a protest against women's rights should receive
more emphasis in your paper than an anti-war protest.

KATHERINE HAENSCHEN

Austin

Protests endanger troops

Re: Jan. 28 article "Thousands join D.C. war protest."

I'm offended by the absurd suggestion that war protesters like Nick Travis are
"troop-supporting." Quite the contrary, their efforts embolden our enemy and
make tougher an already difficult situation.

Claiming to be troop-supporting may make Travis feel good about himself, but the
fact is; he's no help to our troops.

Don't like the war? Fine, write your congressman, support a like-minded
candidate or run for office yourself. But as long as we're fighting this war,
you can better support our troops if you'd keep yourself from being part of the
enemy's propaganda machine.

BILL WELCH

wowelch@aol.com

Austin

SPECIAL PRIVILEGES?

KIM-POSSIBLE

Who does she think she is?

Re: Jan. 27 article "Kim seeks special airport access."

I understand that Saturdays are typically slow news days, and that is the only
reason I can muster as to why Austin City Council 3ember Jennifer Kim's demand
for special airport privileges commanded front-page news.

I find it terribly ironic when bureaucrats such as Kim and our venerable
representatives in Washinton believe they can and should circumvent those very
rules and regulations they are responsible for creating in the name of the
public good.

Don't like the laws? Fine. Change them the old-fashioned way - by utilizing the
very same legislative process they were elected to impart.

DIANE LeBLEU

Austin

*

When I read the article, I was relieved such a critical issue had been resolved.
Austinites everywhere can breath a sigh of relief knowing Kim doesn't "own" our
airport and must go through the hoops just like the rest of us.

Whew! Now we can move on.

DON STRATMANN

Austin

*

Bravo for the American-Statesman publishing that story on Page 1.

What unmitigated chutzpah, when the mayor and the city manager have not
requested such an exemption. And to top it off, Kim is peeved that she didn't
get what she asked for.

We need people with maturity to run our City Council, so I will not be voting
for Kim if she runs for reelection.

HENRY R. HUG

Austin

*

Welcome to the world of us common folk, Ms. Kim, those of us who hired you and
can fire you. Since we common folk are paying your salary, you can stand in line
like the rest of us.

JOE MEADOWS

Austin

Leave her alone

Kim's misunderstanding about airport security procedures seems to have been a
short-lived, minor incident that does not merit full-length, front-page
coverage.

Why isn't the Statesman reporting on the minor misunderstandings of the white or
male City Council members?

Texas has a long tradition of denying Asian Americans political participation.
That's one tradition the Statesman should not be seeking to revive.

Leave Kim alone or publish something positive about her for a change.

ARTHUR SAKAMOTO

Austin

Webb set up for failure

Re: "District saw few answers for Webb's problems."

So Superintendent Pat Forgione's recommendation is to move failing students to
another low-performing school and pray (surely not in public school) that they
miraculously improve.

Webb Middle School has one of the state's highest teacher turnover rates;
inexperienced teachers who actually fail certification exams; and its students
have been failing for three years. Now, everyone pretend those teachers were at
Westlake High or Anderson High and consider whether students there would have
any chance of passing with that caliber of instruction.

Trust me, the parents are not blameless, either, and they should be held
accountable, but if those are the types of teachers the state is sending, then
Webb was set up for failure.

SHARON ARMSTEAD

Cedar Park

Watch your step, parents

A law is under consideration in California to put parents in jail for spanking
their children because it is a form of child abuse.

Let's go one step further. Let's put the parents of obese children in jail
because the parents are abusing the children by overfeeding them and putting
them in bad health. Or the parents who won't go to sports events or to dance
recitals or music recitals because that is a form of child neglect. Or the
parents who smoke or drink or use drugs in front of their children because they
are setting a bad example. Let's put parents in jail for correcting their
children, such as scolding, when their child does something wrong.

Let's put parents in jail for raising their own children as they see fit.

Solution: Let's turn our kids, at birth, over to the government and let the
government raise them according to their laws so that our kids will be
well-trained and disciplined.

TOM WALSH

Buda

Coal plants' effects

Even if TXU Corp. does get approval to build the coal plants, the public will
soon turn against the company when everyone realizes the impact global warming
is going to have on flooding the Texas Coastal Plains areas. I hope it's not
already too late to stop the eventual ocean rise. Some scientists think it is
already too late.

EUGENE PRESTON

http://egpreston.com

Austin

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 20, 2005, Monday

CALL FOR BAN ON PROTESTS AT MARCHES

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 212 words


STRANGFORD assemblyman David McNarry is issuing a call today to the Parades
Commission for a total ban on protests at parades. The Ulster Unionist MLA said
he firmly believes an across-the-board ban could go a long way to ensuring that
the marching season will pass off peacefully. "Unfortunately, it seems there is
no such thing as a peaceful protest," said Mr McNarry. "Protests cannot be
controlled and there is no option other than for the Parades Commission to ban
all parade protests. "This is because republicans are intent on abusing the
right to peaceful protest," said the MLA. "What we have is that the Parades
Commission readily determines bans on legal parades, but never have they banned
a protest. "The PSNI can police law-abiding people involved in parades, but they
cannot police protests without violence erupting. "Subsequently, the Parades
Commission have caved-in to a protests' charter as evidenced by the orchestrated
republican attacks over the weekend." Speaking to the News Letter yesterday, the
Strangford MLA said he would be firmly putting his view to the Commission today.
"I have no doubt that parades would pass through peacefully if people don't
protest," said Mr McNarry. "The law is there to ban them and it should be used."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Century Newspapers Limited


                              116 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 20, 2005, Monday

CALL FOR BAN ON PROTESTS AT MARCHES

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 217 words


STRANGFORD assemblyman David McNarry is issuing a call today to the Parades
Commission for a total ban on protests at parades.

The Ulster Unionist MLA said he firmly believes an across-the-board ban could go
a long way to ensuring that the marching season will pass off peacefully.

"Unfortunately, it seems there is no such thing as a peaceful protest," said Mr
McNarry.

"Protests cannot be controlled and there is no option other than for the Parades
Commission to ban all parade protests.

"This is because republicans are intent on abusing the right to peaceful
protest," said the MLA.

"What we have is that the Parades Commission readily determines bans on legal
parades, but never have they banned a protest.

"The PSNI can police law-abiding people involved in parades, but they cannot
police protests without violence erupting.

"Subsequently, the Parades Commission have caved-in to a protests' charter as
evidenced by the orchestrated republican attacks over the weekend."

Speaking to the News Letter yesterday, the Strangford MLA said he would be
firmly putting his view to the Commission today.

"I have no doubt that parades would pass through peacefully if people don't
protest," said Mr McNarry.

"The law is there to ban them and it should be used."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Century Newspapers Limited


                              117 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                            June 15, 2016 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

13 protests a day rock SA, says research

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words


WAGES, service provision, crime, dismissals, unemployment and housing are what
South Africans complain about daily - in at least 67â[#x20ac]¯750 protests over
the past 17 years.

And those protests are continuing, at a rate of about 13 a day at the last
count, mainly peacefully.

"Protests seem to be the measure that the majority of the poor use to access
democracy," said University of Johannesburg researcher Boitumelo Maruping.

Why are so many still protesting across the country?

"Those in power have to do more listening, as well as more implementing," said
sociology professor Peter Alexander, also of UJ. "One way of avoiding protests
over electric lights is by providing electric lights."

They are part of the team of researchers from UJ's Social Change Research Unit
which analysed the SAPS's counts of protests.

Yesterday the team released its report, "Counting Police-recorded Protests:
Based on South African Police Service Data".

Recorded

It looked at incident data collected by the police through their incident
registration information system from 1997 to 2013.

Those 67â[#x20ac]...750 incidents were police-recorded protests, not general
crowd-related incidents. They were about 43% of the 156â[#x20ac]...230 crowd
incidents logged by police over that period, and were probably under-reported,
said the researchers.

Police count protests by the day, so if a group protested over three days, it
would be logged as three incidents.

Researchers said about 80% of protests were orderly, 10% disruptive and 10%
â[#x20ac]¨violent (with injuries or damage).

Labour-related protests were more orderly - about 86% of them - than
community-related protests (68%).

There was a "steady rise" in the proportion of both labour and community
â[#x20ac]¨protests that were disorderly, said the report.

Researcher Boikanyo Mo-

loto said her assessment of the incident reports indicated that violence often
flared after police intervened, for example by shooting rubber bullets.

Labour issues topped protesters' concerns, with about 46% of protests attributed
to this by police. Community protests were the second-biggest issue, with about
22%.

Xenophobia was listed as the main cause of just 0.2% of protests.

The most protests were in 2012 with 5â[#x20ac]¯589; the least in 2004, with less
than half â[#x20ac]¨that.

Gauteng had the most protests and the Northern Cape the least, but looking at
protests per 100â[#x20ac]...000 people, the Northern Cape and North West had the
most.

"It's not just about this elusive concept of service delivery," said Institute
for Security Studies researcher Lizette Lancaster.

She welcomed the study, saying it showed how communities were under siege over a
range of issues, including violent crime.

louise.flanagan@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            December 18, 2015 Friday

Karachiites suffer as protests become order of day

SECTION: Vol. XXX No. 346

LENGTH: 364  words


Commuters have to go through great hardship almost every day due to protests and
rallies on the streets of Karachi, as these have become order the day.It appears
as if protesters are at liberty to take to any street and block it for traffic,
ruining the plans of thousands of commuters who are trying to reach from point A
to B. Ambulances also get stuck in the traffic mess and the distance that should
take minutes to cover gets stretched over hours, delaying the provision of much
needed medical care to the patient.

Here is the list protests and rallies on Karachi streets during the past few
days: protest over killings of Muslims by Israel-backed forces in Nigeria on
December 16; protest by PIA on December 15 employees over proposed privatization
of the national flag carrier; protest by sugarcane growers on December 13;
protest by family members of a youth killed in an alleged police encounter and;
protest demonstration on December 11 calling for declaring local bodies
elections null and void and then holding re-elections.No matter if the number of
demonstrators is huge or thin, blocking roads is considered the most essential
part of any protest. The aim, obviously, is to draw attention of the government
by making the people suffer.Traffic jam is just one problem caused by these
protests.

The availability of a large number of people stuck in jams becomes a perfect
place for the criminal elements to come out and deprive the citizens of their
cash, jewelry, cell phones, laptops and other valuable belongings.What is even
more irritating for the commuters is how police reacts to the protests.
Sometimes the protesters don't have any intention to block a road but then
police jumps to action and does what protesters don't.Protests are also held in
other civilized countries where people do take to streets to raise their voice.
But unlike the protesters of our country, these demonstrators never try to
disrupt the system. The citizens of Karachi who contribute billions of rupees in
taxes question for how long they will have to put up with this ordeal on a day
to day basis. Don't the administration and traffic police have any solution to
this significant issue?

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday

Social justice protests held in TA, J'lem for 2nd week

BYLINE: BEN HARTMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 206 words


A few hundred people marched in central Tel Aviv on Saturday night to protest
the current government's economic policies, in the second-straight week of
"social justice" protests in the city.

The protest in Tel Aviv was held at the same time that hundreds gathered in
Jerusalem as well as in Beersheba.

Other protests included a few hundred people who gathered outside the house of
Israeli businessman Yitzhak Tshuva in Netanya, and a few dozen outside of Prime
Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's house in Caesarea. At the protest in Netanya,
demonstrators called for a greater share of the offshore gas profits to go into
the public coffers, while in Caesarea, protesters rallied against the budget and
lampooned recent revelations about the expenditures at the prime minister's
house.

At the protest in Tel Aviv, the crowd called out chants like "there is no future
with [finance minister] Lapid and Bibi [Netanyahu]" as well as "the people
demand social justice," a chant from the 2011 protests.

Saturday night's protests were far smaller than last weekend's, when several
thousand people marched through central Tel Aviv in what was billed as the
reignition of the 2011 social justice protests, in response to the announcement
of the new budget.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Photo appeared on page 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: OUT IN THE STREET. Hundreds of people gather in Jerusalem last
night to protest the government's economic policies, in the second-straight week
of 'social justice' demonstrations in the city. A protest was also held in Tel
Aviv. (Credit: Flash 90)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 258

LENGTH: 207  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Sukkur on Saturday.

According to details, the members of the Shehri Ittehad Sukkur recorded a
protest demonstration against the poor sanitary system in different areas of the
city and performance of the concerned authorities. The activists of the Sunni
Tehreek led by Rizwan Ahmed Memon, Kashif Hussain and others recorded a protest
demonstration against the target killing incidents in Karachi. The Rajput
community people staged a protest demonstration against the actions of the
B-Section Police. They accused the police of arresting their community man
namely Fayaz Rajput without any reason.

The Pirzado community people recorded a protest demonstration against the
actions of the police and influential men of Unar community. The residents of
different areas of Sukkur continued their protest demonstrations against the
prolonged power outages and the drinking water shortage. The activists of the
Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM) led by Ghulam Mustafa Phulpoto and others staged a
protest demonstration against the Lyari Operation. A couple namely Collector
Mashori and Ayesha Mashori staged a protest demonstration for the provision of
protection to them.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Egyptian Nile News TV 1600 gmt 18 Nov 11

LENGTH: 320 words


0000 News headlines

1. 0055 Tens of thousands of Egyptians protest in Cairo's Tahrir Square against
supra-constitutional principles; Protesters demanded timetable for handover of
power to civilian government. Video report.

2. 0425 Live two-way with correspondent from Tahrir Square on developments of
protests.

3. 0740 Live interview at studio with professor of constitutional law on today's
protests and proposed supra-constitutional principles in Egypt.

4. 1545 Thousands of Egyptians protest in coastal city of Alexandria demanding
speedy handover of power to civilian government. Video shows protest.

5. 1640 Live two-way with correspondent from Alexandria on developments of
protests.

6. 1950 Egyptian premier resumes consultations with various political parties on
proposed supra-constitutional principles. Video shows meeting in progress.

7. 2035 Live two-way with leading Muslim Brotherhood figure Mahmud Ghizlan on
today's protests. Ghizlan said his group would not stage sit-in in Tahrir Square
after the end of protests.

8. 2415 Egyptian security forces control situation in Cairo's district of Shubra
after unrest on 17 November.

9. 2505 Midway headlines.

10. 2705 Syrian human rights organization says security forces have killed 16
protesters during Friday protests. Video report.

11. 3000 Hundreds of Jordanians protest in Amman demanding political and
economic reforms. Video shows protest.

12. 3045 Live two-way with correspondent from Amman on protests.

13. 3235 Libya's envoy to UN accuses Qatar of arming and financing Islamists in
Libya. Still of Libyan envoy.

14. 3320 Head of military council in Libyan capital Tripoli says agreement was
clinched with new Libyan rulers to include revolutionaries in new government
which is due to be announced on 20 November.

15. 3420 Economic news.

16. 4300 International news.

17. 4730 Sports news.

18. 5320 Closing headlines.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1600gmt 18 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

EDITORIAL: The "Occupy" protests: After the bellowing, get to achievable targets

BYLINE: The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 401 words


Oct. 07--The protests

Street protests can be inane. Recall the image of Medicare beneficiaries
bellowing (during Congressional debates over health care reform) that government
should keep its mitts out of health care. Another case: Several months ago a
woman protesting the planned construction of a mosque in a Tennessee town found
particular meaning in screaming into a radio microphone "Islam is not a
religion!"

The current protests being carried out under the banner of "Occupy Wall Street"
have similarly tenuous components that, at times, convey impressions of a
complaintfest; what else to make of the latest iteration in the form of "Occupy
College" walkouts to protest student debt loads and the shortage of jobs for
graduates?

But there is something legitimate beneath some of these "occupy" protests, just
as the tea party movement ultimately gave voice to genuine dismay over the
direction of government.

The tea partiers started in a confusing way, and a few of their early champions
were laughably inarticulate. But ultimately some of them got beyond caricature
fulmination to insist on specific actions. Some of those actions have been
downright damaging, the debt ceiling fiasco being an example, but the ultimate
blame for that falls not on the tea partiers but on the elected policymakers who
did their bidding.

With luck, the "occupy" movement will take a lesson and come up with achievable
targeted steps to guide policymakers in wiser directions. Doubling the minimum
wage and arresting unnamed Wall Street "criminals" don't pass the achievable
test. Here's one that does: Call for the return of banking controls that were
written during the Depression in 1933 and that were later swept away. The
restoration of so-called Glassâ[#x20ac]"Steagall restrictions, which tea
partiers might also favor, would do more to heal and protect the economy than
countless other corporation-bashing initiatives by keeping Wall Street cowboys
in check.

The test here is whether the "occupy" crowd -- or crowds -- can get beyond the
shouting to the practical stage. That includes not just spelling out pragmatic
prescriptions, as wonky as some might sound, but also turning up at the voting
booth. That's ultimately how many important things get done in a democracy.

___ (c)2011 The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) Visit The Keene Sentinel (Keene,
N.H.) at www.sentinelsource.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111007-KN-EDITORIAL-The-Occupy-protests
-After-the-bellowing-get-to-achievable-targets-1007-20111007

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KN


                                 Copyright 2011


                              124 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Iranian TV news 0930 gmt 29 April 2011

LENGTH: 258 words


A. Headlines

B. Home and world news:

1. 0931 Hojjat ol-Eslam Ahmad Khatami led Friday prayers. He expressed his
support for Ayatollah Khamene'i by saying that the Islamic revolution is owed to
the guardianship of the jurisconsult. He urged officials to be vigilant and
avoid providing the enemies with pretexts that can be used against Iran. Video
shows sermons in progress.

2. 0933 The head of the targeted subsidies HQ has said that his year the focus
of the government will be on production and full support of industry and
agriculture as well as price control policy. Video show interview with official.

3. 0936 Report on protests in Bahrain against death sentences issued by a
military court for four protesters yesterday. Video show protests.

4. 0938 Report on protests in Saudi Arabia. 192 people have been arrested in the
latest wave of protests.

5. 0939 Report on anti-Israeli protests in Egypt. Video shows protests.

6. 0940 Report on continuation of protests in Yemen. Video shows protests.

7. 0941 Rebels are advancing in Misrata, Libya. Video shows fighting.

8. 0942 Report a spring day.

9. 0942 Weather report.

10. 0943 Report on International Film Festival in Kish. Video shows closing
ceremony.

11. 0945 Report on the visit of the new US envoy to Afghanistan, Afghanistan ten
years after occupation. Video shows US soldiers in Afghanistan.

12. 0947 Sports

13. 0949 Calendar/ prayer times

14. 0949 Recap of headlines

15. 0950 End of bulletin.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
0930 gmt 29 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

THE ESSENTIALS How to start and organize a protest

SECTION: XTREME; Jennifer Glass; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 297 words


Having a voice as a teen is important, because we are the future of our nation.
One way to get your voice heard is by protesting.

Here are tips on how to start and organize a protest from Mecca and Okonlawon
Smith, who have participated in a protest demonstration; Shama S. Cartwright, a
local musician who writes protest music; and Richmond County Marshal's Sgt.
Bryan Patterson:

* When organizing a protest, first and foremost, have a reason.

* Find people that support your cause: Draft a petition and go out to find
people who believe the same way you.

* Protest by the rules: While protesting, you can't block a sidewalk, but you
can be on a sidewalk. You cannot impede the flow of traffic.

* Protest no-no's: Never take your clothes off in public, never throw stuff, and
never make terrorist threats, such as, "I'm going to follow you home and burn
your house down." Use common sense: You know what not to do.

* Laws change. Generally, you need to have a permit to demonstrate for groups of
four or more, but recent laws in Augusta state that you no longer need a permit
unless the protest is held in the street.

* Keep your options open. Protest doesn't mean just marching and carrying picket
signs. You can express your concerns with the clothes you wear, the music you
play or a simple act of silence.

* Sometimes, you don't need to protest. "Learn who you are and there's no need
of protest," Mecca Smith said. "When you know who you are there is no need to
protest because the knowledge of self is the protest."

* Protester words of wisdom: "Knowing who your history is, knowing your
grandmother, knowing your ancestors, knowing your goals and objectives allows
you to know where you need to be today," Okonlawon Smith said.

Jennifer Glass is a senior at North Augusta High School.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Commission permits loyalist counter demo

BYLINE: Barry McCaffrey

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words


The Parades Commission last night ruled that nationalists and loyalists can hold
counter-protests within metres of each other at a flashpoint interface in west
Belfast tomorrow morning.

Loyalists will be allowed to hold counter-protests on the Springfield Road as
nationalist residents protest against an Orange Order march.

The decision, which has angered nationalist residents, will allow 10 loyalist
protesters to stand on a traffic island outside the disused Mackies Factory site
while a second loyalist protest will be allowed to take place on an upper
section of the Springfield Road up to within 10 metres of the nationalist
protest.

It is believed to be the first time that loyalists have been allowed to counter-
protest in this way.

Defending its decision, the commission said: "Protests and counter-protests are
important civil and human rights and should be facilitated where possible
without restriction.

"However, there is no doubt that these protests demonstrate a degree of
community disharmony which clearly is in need of redress."

Springfield Road residents spokesman Sean Murray criticised the commission
decision to allow the loyalist counter-protests.

"The Parades Commission decision defies logic as they are now allowing loyalists
to protest directly outside nationalist homes on the Springfield Road," he said.

"This counter-demonstration has been orchestrated by two senior figures from the
NWBPCF (North and West Belfast Parades and Cultural Forum).

"The NWBPCF is trying to disrupt the nationalist protest but we are appealing
for people to remain calm and not to be provoked."

Mr Murray rejected NWBPCF claims that nationalists had intimidated loyalist
residents on the Springfield Road and attacked the home of a Protestant
pensioner at the weekend.

NWBPFC spokesman Tommy Cheevers said that nationalist intimidation had forced
loyalists to apply for a counter-protest, however.

"This is the first time this has happened and only came about because our people
were being intimidated and decided to speak out against these attacks," he said.

"Our community is not looking for confrontation, but we insist that our voice is
properly heard."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

Almost one "act of violence" every five hours in September: Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 542  words


CAIRO, Oct 17 (Aswat Masriya) - Egypt has witnessed 138 acts of violence and
"political terrorism" in September, led by clashes between Muslim Brotherhood
supporters and security forces, the Cairo-baseddemocracy index reported Friday.

Explosions and violence in Cairo and other cities have surged since the ouster
of Former President Mohamed Mursi, resulting in 1500 deaths of mainly Mursi
supporters and hundreds of security personnel.

The month of September witnessed 25 killings, 43 injuries, and 138 cases of
violence and political terrorism, the report stated, estimating five accidents
per day, and almost one accident every five hours.

The report identified perpetrators in three groups; the Muslim Brotherhood,
security forces, and supporters of the current state administration.

Armed clashes between the Brotherhood supporters, security forces, and the
people amounted to 57, all of which were sparked by pro-Brotherhood protests and
ended in confrontations with either security forces or the supporters of the
current administration, in reference to the supporters of President Abdel Fattah
al-Sisi.

Bombings carried out using improvised explosive devices (IEDs) amounted to 32
cases, while 20 more attempts were foiled, four of which targeted electricity
transformers.

These accidents occurred in 17 governorates, most of which took place in North
Sinai which witnessed 23 accidents (17 percent), followed by Cairo where 20
accidents took place (15 percent).

On Wednesday, the index reported a decline in the rate of protesting in
September, standing at 513 protests during the month against 647 protests during
August.

Democracy Index noted a decline in the number of protests staged by the Muslim
Brotherhood. The group, listed as a terrorist organisation last December, staged
203 (39.5 percent) protests in September, compared to 414 (64 percent) in
August; almost half the number of protests.

Most of the Muslim Brotherhood's protests were held on Friday, making up 75
percent of the group's protests throughout the month. Fridays witnessed the
largest number of protests held during the month; 153 protests were held on the
four Fridays of last September.

The number of social and economic protests meanwhile rose in September, making
up 54 percent of the protests held during the month, compared to 35 percent last
month. This came at the expense of protests calling for civil and political
rights, which made up 46 percent of the protests, as opposed to 65 percent in
August.

The most frequent form of protests in September was hunger striking. Democracy
Index reported at least 1000 cases of hunger strikes, in solidarity with a
nation-wide campaign launched in late August in protest over last year's protest
law and calling for the release of all those detained due to the law.

Cairo hosted the highest number of protests in September; 118 protests making up
23 percent of the protests held nationwide. Alexandria ranked second with 56
protests while Giza ranked third with 45 protests. The Sinai Peninsula witnessed
the smallest number of protests; one protest was held in North Sinai and another
in South Sinai.

Democracy Index is a research project issued by the Cairo-based International
Development Centre to monitor protests rate in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2014 Aswat Masriya
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

NATO supply, lawlessness: JI Balochistan to launch protest demonstration from
Dec 13

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 333

LENGTH: 448  words


Jamaat Islami (JI) Balochistan has announced to launch protest demonstrations
from December 13 to 29, 2013 all across the province against NATO supply and
continued lawlessness, price hike and unemployment in the country.

Provincial Ameer JI Abdul Mateen, Secretary General Bashir Ahmed Khundai along
with other leaders said during a press conference Quetta press club that protest
demonstrations will be held on national avenues and different areas of the
province.

Provincial Ameer said, in first phase of protest demonstration, JI will arrange
APC and Tribal Councils, while will launch the movement from December 13, 2013
by holding protest on Chaman

After that protest demonstration will be held in Quetta on December 20, while on
Dec 29 public protests will be arranged in Naseerabad on the route of NATO
supply. Protest will be staged on 4 main avenues of the province, he added.

Abdul Mateen said that nation is being dragged into economic crises from the day
when Pakistan became ally of US in war against terror, and because of this,
lawlessness has spread in country.

He said, rulers seems being failed in resolving the issues of public because,
they have closed the doors of employment on youth by increasing the tax to
fulfil their own resources, while it is the responsibility of government to
provide employment to youth.

Abdul Mateen said, Prime Minister (PM) Nawaz Sharif has not worked on the hope
that he had given to people before the general polls of May 11, while he has
also not taken any lesson from his past experiences.

"Matters are becoming worst due to delay in decisions because, Pervez Musharraf
went against our culture, religion and faith by supporting US in war against
terror, while it has been confirmed in Wiki Leaks that US had already planned
the attack on Afghanistan," he added.

JI Provincial leader more said that all parties have advised the current
government that Pakistan should take itself out from this war but, Nawaz Sharif
government is also continuing the policies of its predecessors.

He said all parties have forwarded this opinion in All Parties Conference (APC)
that Pakistan should come out of war on terror by changing its foreign policy
because this war is creating problems for country.

"No one in the society is feeling secure, kidnapping and target killing is
ongoing even Ulema, political and religious leaders are being targeted," he
added.

Replying to a query he said, Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) has fake mandate and
Altaf Hussain is not a political leader he has made Karachi hostage for 20
years.

"US should leave this land and we by blocking the NATO supply should pressurize
US to stop drone attacks on our country," he concluded.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

NATO supply, lawlessness Balochistan JI to launch protest demonstration

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 033

LENGTH: 147  words


Jamaat Islami (JI) Balochistan has announced to launch protest demonstrations
from December 13 to 29, 2013 all across the province against NATO supply and
continued lawlessness, price hike and unemployment in the country.

Provincial Ameer JI Abdul Mateen, Secretary General Bashir Ahmed Khundai along
with other leaders said during a press conference Quetta press club that protest
demonstrations will be held on national avenues and different areas of the
province. Provincial Ameer said, in first phase of protest demonstration, JI
will arrange APC and Tribal Councils, while will launch the movement from
December 13, 2013 by holding protest on Chaman.

After that protest demonstration will be held in Quetta on December 20, while on
Dec 29 public protests will be arranged in Naseerabad on the route of NATO
supply. Protest will be staged on 4 main avenues of the province, he added.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            January 27, 2013 Sunday

AHBP teachers to launch protest move

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 26

LENGTH: 201  words


The teachers recruited under the Aghaz Haqooq Balochistan Package (AHBP) have
decided to launch protest movement in favour of their demand of making them
permanent. The protest movement is being launched under the umbrella of Haqooq
Teachers Association.

In this regard, a protest rally would be taken out in Quetta on January 28
(today). A hunger strike camp would also be set up in front of the Press Club
after the protest rally. The male as well as female teachers would also take
part in the hunger strike.

If then the demand of the teachers were not met, then the circle of protest
would be expanded to the entire province where protest demonstrations would be
held. If the concerned authorities did not agree to their demand, a protest
demonstration and sit-in would be staged in front of the parliament, said the
teachers.

According to them, the authorities including the ministers had assured to them
to make them permanent within 15 days, at the parliament house, but nothing was
done despite lapse of several months.

It is high time for the government to regularize their services making them
permanent against the same posts of teachers, otherwise, the protest would be
intensified further, they vowed.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            January 18, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Protests part of healthy democracy

BYLINE: Nathalie Des Rosiers, The StarPhoenix

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 454 words


Des Rosiers is general counsel of Canadian Civil Liberties Association.

The right to protest disturbs and disrupts. It is meant to.

It disturbs ordinary people who may be delayed, inconvenienced or unable to do
business as usual. It disturbs businesses for whom changes to scheduling may
mean additional costs. It should disturb the government whose job it is to
facilitate our life in a democracy and offer us a prosperous place to live.

When protests disturb and paralyze traffic, what should be done?

During the protests last spring in Quebec, we witnessed a variety of responses.
The government initially ignored the protests and these grew larger. Some people
took their anger to the courts and sought injunctions, which led to arrests,
violent interaction between police and protesters, more court challenges, more
arrests, more tear gas and broken shop windows.

Then the government enacted a special law that would have significantly
curtailed the right to protest, which was met by a broadening of support for the
protest movement and eventually to an election, which saw the newly elected
Parti Quebecois "revoke" the legislation.

There are lessons to be learned here. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty worries that
continuous indigenous blockades threaten economic recovery. He may be right.

The government has choices: It can ignore the protest and hope that, over time,
protesters will tire, their numbers decrease and their public support wanes. It
can criminalize the protest, seeking injunctions to stop blockades and have
police arrest people. Or it can opt to attempt to remedy the problem at the root
of the protest, and commit to a resolution.

The job of police is to enforce the law and they must protect the right to
protest. Their primary aim is often to de-escalate the potential for violent
interruption. A decision not to intervene is often the smartest. Charges can be
laid later, if there has been criminal behaviour.

But people ask: How long can a protest go on? How long can the patience of
ordinary people be taxed? The answer is as long as the political struggle gains
enough supporters to keep the action going, or as long as the government takes
to resolve the issue.

Certainly, there are limits to the right to protest. There is no constitutional
right to violence or to endanger someone's life. Protests let emergency vehicles
go through. Occasionally, other essential services can also be negotiated with
the protesters.

It must be remembered that protests are legitimate forms of political
expression, and they do disturb. But so do elections, road construction and
closing the streets for parades and fundraising races. All are part of living in
a democracy. It is messy, but better than the alternative.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Russians' protest potential steady over summer months, polls show

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 23 August: Over the summer months of 2012, the index of public protest
potential among Russians has narrowly fluctuated around 34 points, while the
personal level [of protest potential] has stayed between 25 and 27 points,
VTsIOM [All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre] sociologists told Interfax,
citing the results of their research.

The index of public protest potential shows the extent to which Russians
consider mass protests possible, while the index of personal protest potential
measures people's readiness to take part in protests. The greater the indices,
the more conviction among respondents that protests are possible and the greater
the declared readiness to take part.

At present, 28 per cent of Russians consider certain protest manifestations
possible in the country, while 68 per cent suppose that such events are
unlikely, the VTsIOM poll, carried out on 18-19 August among 1,600 people in 138
settlements in 46 Russian regions, showed.

According to regular sociological research, 27-28 per cent of respondents did
not rule out mass protests in their settlements in June-July, while 68-29 [as
received, presumed to be 69] per cent considered them unlikely.

As regards personal involvement in rallies against falling living standards and
in support of their rights, 17 per cent said they were ready to take part in
June and 19 per cent in July-August. Most people - 77 to 79 per cent - showed an
indifference towards such events throughout the summer months, the VTsIOM
research has shown.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0806 gmt 23 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Queen's students join nationwide protests

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 307 words


STUDENTS from Queen's University Belfast were among thousands across the UK to
protest against plans to increase tuition fees.

Up to 60 students were involved in the demonstration outside the
vice-Chancellor's office at the south Belfast campus yesterday.

The protest organised by the pressure group FEE (Free Education for Everybody)
began at around 1pm and ended peacefully after three hours.

The students were seeking a meeting with vice-Chancellor Peter Gregson to
discuss fears about proposals to raise student fees to £9,000 a year.

Chris Donnelly (21), a first-year history student from Dungannon, was among the
protesters.

"We had a meeting on Monday night and decided to go down the protest route
against the vice-Chancellor Peter Gregson," he said. "We are totally opposed to
the Browne Review, which is the proposals to raise the tuition fees up to
£9,000.

"We came down to highlight that students at Queen's are resolutely opposed to
the rise in tuition fees.

"It was a peaceful protest, there has been no vandalism.

"It is a stewarded protest. Security guards are not allowing people outside the
building in."

QUB Students' Union president Gareth McGreevy, however, said it was an
independent protest.

"The Students' Union acknowledges the right for peaceful protest and the choice
to do so. "The protest was independent to any action currently ongoing by
QUBSU."

A spokesman for QUB said the protest ended quickly.

"There was small protest by a number of young people," he said.

"Professor Tony Gallagher, pro-vice-Chancellor, addressed the students, listened
to their concerns, and promised to report them back to the university's
management board."

CAPTION: Students unfurl a banner outside the vice-Chancellor's office at
Queen's University yesterday during their demonstration against cuts ARTHUR
ALLISON/PACEMAKERPeter Gregson: meeting sought

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Sukkur Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1572

LENGTH: 157  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by the people in favour of their
demands outside the Sukkur Press Club on Sunday. According to details, the
people of the Mahesser community, residents of Pano Akil staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the accused murderers of their community man
Muhammad Alam Mahesser. The leaders of different political, social and religious
parties staged a protest demonstration against the tribal clashes and feudal
system in Sindh. The activists of Jamat-e-Islami staged a protest demonstration
against the target killings in Karachi. The people of they Syed community
recorded a protest against the atrocities of the Abad Police. The leaders of
Disabled Ittehad continued their protest demonstration in favour of their
demands. The people of the Korai community, residents of Pano Akil staged a
protest demonstration against the lodging of a murder case against their
community man Javed Korai.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1462

LENGTH: 244  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad press club on
Tuesday.

According to details, former employees of the SRTC staged a protest for issuance
of their remaining stipends. A suspended police constable namely Saleem along
with his wife and children staged a protest for reinstatement of his services. A
resident of Kotri namely Khair Muhammad Chohan staged a protest for the arrest
of the killers of his son. The workers of PPP Rural Taluka Hyderabad observed a
token hunger strike against the neglecting of the PPP activists. The people of
the Kolhi Community staged a protest for the arrest of the accused rapists of
Kasturi Kolhi. The residents of Muslim Town Kotri under the leadership of Mir
Hassan Nautkani and others staged a protest against a few influential men. The
members of the Atish Social Welfare Association Hyderabad under the leadership
of Nusrat Khanam Zai and others staged a protest against the torture of women.
The people of the Kunbhar Community under the leadership of Imtiyaz Kunbhar and
others staged a protest against the influential men, who had attacked their
village and tortured them. The activists of the JSQM and PPP-SB Hyderabad
Chapter under the leadership of Majeed Siyal, Dr Niaz Kalani, Masood Thebo and
others staged a protest for the regularization of the employees of the NPIW. The
employees of TMA City, Qasimabad and Latifabad staged a protest demonstration
for the issuance of their salaries.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside Press Club Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1421

LENGTH: 211  words


Different protests were staged by various people in favour of their demands
outside the Press Club Hyderabad on Tuesday.

According to details, the residents of  Firdous Colony Hyderabad staged a
protest demonstration against an occupation of their residential plots. The
peasants of Sanghar under the leadership of Sodho Oad and others staged a
protest demonstration against the actions of an influential landlord.

The contract based employees of the OGDCL staged a protest for the
regularization of their services. A woman namely Lali Thakur, resident of Husri
demanded provision of compensation over the sad demise of her husband Narsing
Thakur, who was killed in an accident of the Allama Iqbal Express at Karachi.

The activists of the Sindh Peoples Students Federation (Shaheed Bhutto) Sindh
University Jamshoro chapter staged a protest demonstration against the actions
of the local police. The people of the Mallah community including Allah Bachayo
Mallah and others, residents of Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration against
Pabban Police Hyderabad. The workers of PPP PS-48 Hyderabad staged a protest
demonstration against a local party leader. The members of the All Pakistan
Clerks Association staged protest demonstration in favour of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            December 21, 2015 Monday
                              CourierMail Edition

Protest was not simply just about the judiciary

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 812  words


TREVOR LaBrooy rightly points out (Letters, Dec 19) that Richard Chesterman
misses the whole point, as does the legal profession generally.

The protests about the Baden-Clay case are threefold: a protest against the
court overruling a properly instructed jury; a protest against a law that allows
this to happen; and a protest against inactivity on domestic violence generally.

Some people subscribe to one, two or all of these.

The protest should not be against the judiciary if, as they say, they only
interpret the law.

The protest against the law itself must be directed at government. The protest
against domestic violence is against the perpetrators.

The Queensland judiciary rightly defends its right to make judgments without
interference.

However, the people also make judgments through the jury. The appropriate body
to fix this is the people, through their government.

Ross Clark, Woody Point I READ with disbelief the statements of the Queensland
judiciary, who tried to state that the community protest against the decision in
Baden-Clay's appeal was an attack on the separation of powers (executive,
legislature and judiciary).

This is disingenuous in that the community (like the jury in the original trial)
believes that the evidence has proved that Baden-Clay killed his wife, lied
about the circumstances of her death in any number of formal venues, and has
been found guilty by a jury of his peers.

There is no attack on the separation of powers, it is a direct rebuff to the
decision of the Court of Appeal to downgrade his conviction for murder to
manslaughter.

It is the community that elects members of Parliament who raise legislation, the
executive is selected from these members of Parliament, and the judiciary is
appointed by the executive.

I suggest that there should be a mechanism whereby judicial decisions and the
judiciary itself are evaluated to ensure these decisions and the holders of
these judicial appointments are safe, acceptable and meet community standards
and expectations.

Garry Volk, Brisbane

THE sad demise of Allison Baden-Clay has shown the new order under which we now
must live.

This conclusion has been reached due to the legal fraternity's decision that we
have no right to ever question them.

1. Legal Fraternity. No dissent must ever be shown.

2. God. You may criticise slightly.

3. Politicians. Nothing must be shown as being their fault.

4. Us, the public. We must shut up, pay all our bills and never question the
legal fraternity or politicians.

Robert Lillington, Sheldon

I KNOW things are a bit unbridled at the moment but the spokesman for the Law
Society has flummoxed me. This present position has been brought about because,
in his opinion, "the prosecution was unable to prove that murder was the
intention".

If evidence was presented to the court by both the prosecution and defence, and
the jury, after hearing the evidence, brought in a verdict of guilty of murder
where does the problem lie? Are the jury to blame here? They believed the
prosecution was able to prove that murder was the intention. What is afoot?

Patrick McNevin, Macgregor

THE law makes much about what the "man in the street" or a "reasonable person"
would think about an issue.

A petition has been signed and a rally has been held by such people regarding
the Gerard Baden-Clay verdict reversal.

This is the feedback the judiciary should heed.

Ordinary people, evidently, are perplexed and distressed by this decision and
call into question the judicial system.

Patricia Paige, Nobby

IN DOWNGRADING the charge against Gerard Baden-Clay from murder to manslaughter,
the Court of Appeal has made two huge assumptions.

First, it has assumed that Allison's death was an accident during a fight.
Second, it has assumed Allison was dead when her body was dumped in the creek.
Surely Baden-Clay would have called an ambulance if he had accidentally
seriously injured or maybe even killed his wife in a fight and thus given her
perhaps some chance at life.

Instead he dumped her in a creek when she may not have been completely dead.
Surely this proves that he wanted her dead one way or the other.

The dumping in the creek may well have been the thing that finally killed
Allison.

To assume that she was killed in an accident and that Gerard "forgot" to call an
ambulance to try to save her, but instead innocently dumped her in a creek,
represents to me the greatest miscarriage of justice I have seen in my 77 years.

Robin Barke, Daisy Hill

AT THE rally on Friday, one of the speakers said that the law had to move with
the times.

I found myself questioning this until later that day I heard Bill Potts saying
that in Allison Baden-Clay's case, there were "no witnesses to a domestic
incident".

So yes, the law does have to move with the times.

Let Allison's death be evidence that surely violence can be fatal no matter who
is the perpetrator.Carol da Costa-Roque, Annerley

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 4, 2015 Friday

A protest spot in college campus? In UP, it's a norm: Students

BYLINE: Abhimanyu Mathur

SECTION: NOIDA

LENGTH: 763 words


Last week, Bareilly College announced its plan to build a designated protest
spot for its students inside the campus. Universities and colleges in the state
are certainly not alien to student protests. The fact that many of them are now
trying to come up with policies to regulate protests shows how deeply ingrained
student protests are in Uttar Pradesh's academic culture. But students in UP say
that to some extent, this has always been the case, with most institutions
having their own unofficial protest spots. The only difference is that what was
earlier a norm is now being given an official sanction.

Bareilly College to have a dedicated 'dharna spot' for students

Bareilly College recently sent out a circular proposing the construction of a
'high park' near the administrative block, which will act as an earmarked
location for student protests, or a de facto dharna sthal within the college.
Dev Murti, the secretary of the college's management committee, says, "The idea
behind this high park is to provide students space near the principal's office
to protest so that they do not disturb the evening classes or affect the
functioning of the administrative wing. If the students have a dedicated protest
spot, they will stay there and not disrupt the college proceedings. Lucknow has
its own protest spot opposite Council House, Delhi has Jantar Mantar, and so we
thought, why can't Bareilly have the same?"

Most UP varsities have unofficial protest spots

The idea of having a designated protest spot in campus is not new to UP. Aligarh
Muslim University has the reputation of being one of the most politically
charged varsities in the state, so it does not come as a surprise that the
administration there has made many attempts to regulate protests. Aman*, an
engineering student from the university, says, "The main entrance gate to the
university - Bab-e-Syed - is unofficially the protest spot for students in
Aligarh. There is an understanding between the administration and the students
that all protests will take place there only. In fact, in the past, the
administration has even tried to regulate the timings of the protests in an
attempt to restrict them to specific times during the day."

The situation in other major varsities in the state is quite similar. Ayush
Panwar, a student leader from Meerut, says, "Meerut's Chaudhary Charan Singh
University (CCSU) has a big tree inside the campus, which is known as the
protest spot. If you want to protest, that is where you go, almost like an
unwritten rule. Of course, there have been protests outside VC residence and
near the administrative block as well, but those are few in number. There was a
plan to limit protests inside the university and to move it to a park opposite
the library, but that never worked out."

UP students protest for the sake of protesting

Students say that this is because the educational institutions here are known
for their proactive and charged-up political atmosphere and student protests are
a regular feature in most of these institutions. A senior police official from
Lucknow, who did not wish to be named, says, "In Delhi and other places,
students protest for some issue. In UP, they protest for the sake of protesting.
Here, they say that if you haven't been a part of half a dozen big protests in
your first year of college, you are not a student leader. So, it's no wonder
that colleges have now started coming up with some rules and regulations for
protests."

Even cities like Noida that do not see a lot of dharnas have had colleges coming
up with protest-related regulations. Animesh*, a student of a private institute
in Noida, tells us, "Even though private colleges do not see protests because
here the authority is stricter and the punishment is severe, colleges in Noida
have come up with protest rules. That includes the area where one can stage a
dharna to the time limit. This is obviously done to discourage protests and to
ensure that such activities don't disrupt studies."

Only in UP you can have a protest over another protest

Sometimes, rules formulated on protests can become a reason for a whole new
protest. Rajneesh Thakur, a former student politician from Muzaffarnagar, tells
us, "I remember that the colleges here had introduced a rule some years ago that
students will not protest after lunch time because it disturbed the hostellers.
The funny part is that this led to a protest over the time schedule of protests.
It is clear that this region loves to protest, particularly the students!"

(*Names changed on request)

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

54 protests recorded in SA last week

LENGTH: 349 words


The Police Ministry says 54 incidents of protests were recorded by police in the
last week, with most being peaceful.


"It is because most of the leaders of the protesting communities decided to be
at the centre of these protests and they have helped to ensure that they went
off peacefully most of the time," said Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko on
Saturday.



The Minister commended the leaders for their hand in ensuring that most protests
were conducted within the law.

"In the event that the protests were not peaceful, they were quickly brought
under control by the combined action of police and leaders," he said.

Student protests were recorded in eight of the country's provinces with
KwaZulu-Natal recording the most at 15 and Mpumalanga recording the least with
two protests. Protests were also recorded in the following provinces:

-          Gauteng with 13 protests

-          North West with 4 protests

-          Free State with 5 protests

-          Western Cape with 9

-          Eastern Cape with 11

-          Limpopo with 3

In all, students estimated at just over 30 000 protested in various forms with
most higher learning institutes being barricaded by angry students.

An estimated 40 000 Economic Freedom Fighters also took to the streets in
Johannesburg and Sandton in a march that largely went off peacefully.

On Friday, an estimated 1000 members of the African National Congress Women's
League also undertook a march to Pretoria.

Public order police were deployed in all the recorded protests. A few arrests
were made although most of these had to do with trespassing and defying court
orders.

"Again, men and women in blue have been on hand to ensure that protesters
exercise their rights peacefully - the rights that are enshrined in the
Constitution. They also ensured that those who were not part of the protests
were given the necessary protection and space to go about their lives without
least possible inconvenience," said Minister Nhleko.

The Minister said police will continue to discharge their duty of protecting all
South Africans as they exercise their rights.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday

599 labour protests in H1 of 2015: Democracy Meter

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 300 words


Egyptian NGO Democracy Meter issued a report Tuesday on Egypt's labour movement
in the first half of 2015, marking steadiness in the labour protest movement
size since 2014.

The report tracked the labour movement in the broader sense of the term, that
includes every wageworker whether for a public or private institution, small
businesses or handicrafts. The report tracked 48 categories of labourers who
demanded rights related to their work.

The categories included lawyers, journalists, university staff, security
workers, butchers, engineers, pharmacists and pilots.

A total of 599 protests were recorded between January and June of 2015, with an
average of three protests a day. These numbers are consistent with the 433
protests in the last four months of 2014, according to the report.

However, the Democracy Meter figures conflict with government officials'
statements. Minister of Manpower Nahed Al-Ashry stated last Tuesday that the
number of labour protests in 2015 were approximately 100 protests in comparison
to 200 protests in 2014.

The organisation added that the difference in figures could be referred to
either a deviation in the official statistics and the governments tracking of
labour issues, or "an attempt to create imaginary gains and draw an unreal image
of labour reality in Egypt".

The report highlighted that the industrial sector led the labour protests in
2015 with 169 protests, followed by the educational sector with 89 protests. The
main demands of the protests according to the report included: higher wages,
salaries and/or allowances and protesting arbitrary dismissals.

The report showed concerns on Al-Ashry's reactions to labour protest, saying
they lacked systemised solutions. Instead, instead they were mainly directly
attempts to solve every dispute on its own.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2015 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 26, 2015 Thursday

Different protests staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE: Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 802

LENGTH: 286  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, the members of the Pakistan Paramedical Staff's
Association Civil Hospital unit recorded a protest demonstration for the
provision of facilities to them. The leaders including Nazir Laghari, Aijaz
Mahar, Saleh Khaskheli and others accused the Health Department officials of
corruption also. A retired schoolteacher Haji Ali Mohammad Bozdar, resident of
Tando Allahyar recorded a protest demonstration against the occupation of his
agricultural lands. On the occasion, he demanded of the highups to provide
justice to him by removing occupation from his agricultural land. Another man
namely Mohammad Yousif Laghari, resident of Johi staged a protest demonstration
against the occupation of his residential plot. The contract based employees of
the National Bank of Pakistan led by Syed Zulfiqar Ali Shah and others continued
their protest demonstration for the regularization of their services.

The residents of Tando Yousif recorded a protest demonstration against
atrocities of their area's police.  He members of the GSTA staged a protest
demonstration against the government's decision of handing over the
governmentrun schools to the NGOs. The activists of the Qaumi Awami Tehreek
Hyderabad chapter led by Mst Fatima, Allah Bachai and others took out a protest
rally which marching through various routes culminated outside the Hyderabad
Press Club. Addressing on the occasion, the leaders demanded of the concerned
authorities to ensure arrest of the accused murderers of a nineyearold girl
namely Sayani Khaskheli, who was killed nine years ago in Tando Allahyar.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              March 9, 2015 Monday

Municipality clears out protest encampment on Tel Aviv's Rothschild

BYLINE: BEN HARTMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 258 words


A protest encampment set up on Rothschild Boulevard in Tel Aviv was cleared out
Sunday morning less than a week after it was set up as a continuation of sorts
of the Summer 2011 housing protests.

The man who launched the demonstration, Shay Cohen, said Sunday he and his
associates would look for other protest efforts in the coming days and that he
believes other protest camps could start sprouting up in other cities beginning
Monday.

"Our message was heard in the media and on social networks and helped get the
issues that really matter to the public back into the discussion," Cohen told
The Jerusalem Post Sunday afternoon.

Like the 2011 protests, the week-long protest on Rothschild began with a
Facebook post. About two weeks ago, Cohen, one of the founders and leaders of
the organization "Koach L'Ovdim" called on supporters to pitch tents in a show
of protest against the high cost of housing in Israel.

That may be where the similarities end though. While the 2011 demonstrations
swept the country and brought hundreds of thousands of people to protests in
cities across Israel, at most there were only about two dozen tents at the camp
launched by Cohen, and the protest only remained in the news cycle for around 24
hours.

The Tel Aviv municipality said Sunday that it had informed the protesters last
week that by Wednesday it would begin removing the tents. It added that those
who received permission to set up the encampment last week had left by Friday
and just a few late arrivals had remained when the evacuation was completed on
Sunday

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DOZENS OF Israelis pitch tents on Rothschild Boulevard in Tel
Aviv last week to protest high housing costs. (Credit: Nir Elias/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

BRIEF: PM: Protest organizers include terrorist organizations members

BYLINE: R. Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 159 words


June 06--Among the organizers of the protests in Turkey, there are
representatives of terrorist groups who organized the attack on the U.S. embassy
in Ankara, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said during a press conference in
Tunis, TRT Haber TV channel reported on Thursday.

Erdogan added that among those detained during the protests in Istanbul there
are foreign nationals, but they are not officers of the diplomatic missions
accredited in Turkey.

It is ninth day that protests against the reconstruction of the park Gezi in
Taksim Square in Istanbul are continuing in different cities of Turkey.

Earlier, Erdogan said that the protests have ideological nature and are directed
against the government.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Tunis, Taksim

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130606-1AZ-BRF-PM-Protest
-organizers-include-terrorist-organizations-members-0606-20130606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              154 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday

Non-recovery of senior doctor: Doctors on city roads lodging protest, stage
sit-in --Condemn govt. apathy

SECTION: Vol. XXXVI No. 219

LENGTH: 249  words


Doctors took out a protest rally and staged a protest demonstration near GPO
chowk here in the provincial metropolis on Monday.

The protest rally under the aegis of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA)
Balochistan was started from the Sandman Provincial Headquarter Hospital and
reached at the GPO chowk. The President PMA Balochistan, Dr. Sultan Khan Tareen
and others were leading the protest rally.

The participants of the rally carrying banners inscribed with slogans for early
recovery of Dr. Ghulam Rasool wanted to go to the Governor House and Chief
Minister Secretariat to record their protest. However, they were stopped by the
police personnel deployed there. Barricades were also erected there to prevent
entry of the doctors into the VIP area.

Addressing on the occasion, Dr. Sultan Tareen strongly condemned the government
for delay in recovery of the kidnapped psychiatrist. He also lashed out at the
government for its apathy towards the issue regretting that it has not bothered
even to say few words of sympathy to doctors.

Dr. Tareen also said that doctors' protest and strike would remain continued
till recovery of Dr. Ghulam Rasool. He said that doctors' protest is also aimed
at lodging protest against increasing incidents of kidnappings for ransom in
Quetta and other parts of the province.

He said that as the government has failed to protect the life and property of
the masses so it must quit.

Later, the doctors ended their protest demonstration and were dispersed
peacefully.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    Appeal-Democrat (Marysville, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday

Hillcrest vote is too close to call: But city's surface plan may be going under

BYLINE: John Dickey, Appeal-Democrat, Marysville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words


Aug. 21--Unofficial counts of Hillcrest water protests show the proposed Yuba
City surcharge will be a close call and could go down in defeat.

"It's real close," said City Clerk Terrel Locke.

Locke and other city staffers spent Wednesday checking whether the protests were
valid, and inputting the substantiated ones on to a computer spreadsheet.

Locke is hoping to have the count finished by the end of today.

By late Wednesday, unofficial and uncompleted counts showed 2,222 verified
protests, 461 more protests that still need to be verified, and another 436
unverified protest withdrawals that might go against the protest totals if they
check out.

Just over half of the 4,000 Hillcrest area homeowners or city water customers
would have to protest the nearly $20-per-month surcharge to shoot it down.

The fee would pay to switch residents from their current groundwater system to
the city's surface water facility.

Official numbers will be certified by City Council on Aug. 26.

Members of Murky Waters, opponents of the city's plan, were observing the public
count at City Hal, but declined comment on process.

They had gathered many of the protests filed, but generated a backlash from
people who wanted the city's surface water because it was better than the
Hillcrest groundwater.

Anti-protesters started their own campaign of hanging flyers on doorknobs
telling residents they can take back their protest. They also put a video on
YouTube.

Mayor Rory Ramirez joined in the anti-protest campaign with a mailing to
residents claiming misinformation was given out, and telling them they could
take back their protests or file a protest.

A 45-day Proposition 218 protest period ended Monday at a stormy Yuba City City
Council meeting marked by accusations of lies and complaints regarding the
city's handling of the issue.

High arsenic readings in Hillcrest groundwater last year sparked a city campaign
to connect Hillcrest residents to the main city plant which takes its water from
the Feather River.

But some have complained about a $3,570 per-home surcharge, or $19.80 monthly,
to pay for a 30-inch pipe, a water tank and other equipment.

Contact Appeal-Democrat re-porter John Dickey at 749-4711 or
jdickey@appealdemocrat.com

To see more of the Appeal-Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.appeal-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Appeal-Democrat, Marysville,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080821-MY-Hillcrest-vote-is-too-close-to-call-0821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MY


                         Copyright 2008 Appeal-Democrat


                              156 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

Settler leaders to renew protests vs government

BYLINE: Margot Dudkevitch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


Leaders of the Council of Jewish Communities in Judea, Samaria, and the Gaza
Strip informed Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in a meeting last night of their
plans to renew protest activities and fight the government's recognition of the
establishment of a Palestinian state.

The leaders expressed deep disappointment in Sharon's overall policy, especially
his decision to pull out IDF troops from the Abu Sneineh and Hareth a-Sheikh
neighborhoods in Hebron and leave the security of Jewish civilians in the hands
of West Bank Preventive Security chief Jibril Rajoub.

Prior to the meeting at Sharon's office, the Council convened an emergency
meeting to discuss the issues and vote on whether to cancel their meeting with
the prime minister, but decided to go ahead with it and express their concerns..

Council chairman Benny Kashriel said: We are deeply disappointed with Sharon's
performance and will point out to him that the withdrawal of IDF troops from Abu
Sneineh will only lead to the renewal of violence and an escalation in terror.
The easing up of restrictions and the lifting of blockades will only endanger
the lives of Jewish residents in our communities even further and greatly harms
the IDF's deterrence capability Kashriel said that the leaders will also demand
that Sharon dismantle the coalition and form a right wing government.

The council will also go ahead with plans to stage a protest rally in Jerusalem
next Monday to protest the current government policy. Uri Ariel of Beit El said
community leaders will tell Sharon that they will fight the establishment of a
Palestinian state and do everything to prevent it from happening.

It is absolutely inconceivable and we will remind Sharon that he is responsible
for the security of all Israeli civilians Ariel said. The current war we are
waging against the terrorists has taken the heaviest toll in civilian lives more
than any other war the country has fought."

Noam Arnon spokesman for the Hebron Jewish community who refused to accompany
the leaders to meet Sharon due to the decision to withdraw the troops noted that
despite Sharon's statements if one shot is fired in the Hebron area troops would
reoccupy the Palestinian neighborhoods.

Meanwhile Binyamin police yesterday began investigating reports by Palestinians
that residents of Shilo and Shvut Rachel torched two of their vehicles and
damaged others and fired shots at a group of Palestinians harvesting olives in a
grove two kilometers from the community yesterday morning.

Judea and Samaria police spokesman Rafi Yafe said Palestinians from Turmus Aya
informed soldiers that Jewish residents shot at them as they harvested the
olives. Police who arrived at the scene were taken by Palestinians to the grove
and showed them the two torched cars.

The Palestinians whose cars were torched were identified as Rebhi Salama and
Mahmoud Araj and they told Palestinian reporters that when they sought to
prevent the Jewish residents from setting their cars on fire they were told to
leave and weapons were pointed at them.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 The Jerusalem Post


                              157 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

Patidar students bunk school to support leaders

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 306  words


More than 200 students from the community skip classes and stage protest outside
school in Surat

Surat: Students from Patidar community staged a protest in Surat on Tuesday, by
skipping school at Ambatalavdi in Katargam area of the city. Students boycotted
school demanding the release of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leaders and
continued the demand for reservation in education and jobs.

More than 200 students of Ankur Vidyabhavan and Yogi Pravutti Vidyalaya in
Ambatalavdi area boycotted classes in school. At 6 am, students gathered at
school gates and staged protest. They chanted slogans and showed banners in
support of Hardik Patel and other PAAS leaders.

The student's protest resulted in chaos in the area and administrators of both
schools promptly informed police. Cops rushed to the spot and asked students to
end protest. Majority of students protesting at the gates skipped school, while
few students attended classes.

"Students have decided to stage protest against bias state administration, which
is making all efforts to crush the protest initiated by Patidars. The student's
protest was planned by them and PAAS has no role in it. Tuesday's incident is
result of anger within community due to delay in giving reservation," said
Dharmik Malaviya, convener of PAAS in Surat.

Parth Navadia, a class XII student said, "We will continue protests on
Wednesday."

Students allege school authorities of using force

Students alleged school administration of using force to prevent them staging
protest. They alleged that the school security personnel beat some of them to
force them into calling of protests and return to respective classrooms. One of
the trustees of Ankur Vidyalaya threatened students with arrests, if they didn't
enter into class-rooms, said a class XI student.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Anti-fossil fuel protesters plan protest at Didcot Power Station

BYLINE: Alex Wynick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 249 words


A PROTEST at Didcot Power Station at the weekend will be monitored, police said.

Officers said the No Dash For Gas group is planning a demonstration, called
Reclaim the Power, between tomorrow and Tuesday.

Anti-fossil fuel protesters may establish a camp within a few miles of the power
station, police said.

Supt Jim O'Ryan said: "We will be working closely with its partners, including
the RWE Energy Trading Ltd and those wishing to protest, in order to minimise
the impact of the protest on the local communities and fulfil our legal
responsibility to facilitate peaceful protest.

"We respect everyone's right to protest in a way which is non-violent protest
against people or property. However, should activity go beyond peaceful, those
breaking the law will be dealt with proportionately.

"Measures are in place to notify local residents and those who might be affected
by the protests, and our aim is to ensure that there is minimal disruption
caused to them and the wider community of Didcot, and the surrounding areas,
while facilitating protest.

"However, it is highly likely that there will be some disruption to the area.

People should remain vigilant and take appropriate measures to secure access to
open land."

The No Dash for Gas website said the camp was part of a "global weekend of
action on corporate power" ahead of UN climate talks in December.

There will be activities, talks, activist speed dating, workshops on alternative
energy sources and sessions on how to effectively campaign.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday
                                Bangalore Mirror

'FIRs were needed, but no one will be arrested'

BYLINE: Praveen Kumar

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 336 words


Reacting to Bangalore Mirror's article titled After peaceful protests, the
police state strikes back, additional commissioner of police (law and order)
Alok Kumar defended his men for filing the FIRs against principals of the two
colleges, its students as well as others, for protesting over the death of a
woman in an accident at Hebbal recently. The IPS officer explained the need for
registering the FIRs against those who blocked the KIA road on February 27, in
an interview with the newspaper.

What do you have to say about the FIRs?

The FIRs have not been registered against all students who protested on that
day. It was against some students who kept inciting other students to come on
the road and stage a protest. Even a lecturer was seen encouraging students to
protest.

Why was there a need for FIRs?

Inconvenience was caused to so many people as a result of the protest. Traffic
was stranded for up to 7 km. People going to KIA as well as the movement of
ambulances were affected. Yes, the police definitely understand the need for
protests. This protest was extremely emotional, but no force was used against
anybody.

Was there any other way without protests?

The students on their part should have carried out a symbolic protest for about
10 to 15 minutes, but it went on for two hours. There are various other ways to
voice grievances against civic authorities. A protest is not the only option. So
many people were affected because of the protests. Somebody might have been late
to attend an interview, while another may have been rushing to attend to an
emergency, while somebody may have had to catch a flight. This protest has
definitely caused problems to so many people.

Were the FIRs a last resort?

Yes, the registration of FIRs was much needed, failing which it would be like
encouraging somebody to keep protesting and block all major roads, leading to
public disorder.

Will there be any arrests?

The police will not arrest anybody.

Related Story: After peaceful protests, the police state strikes back

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Azer News

                            October 14, 2013 Monday

Protests against Russia's actions in de-facto border held in Georgia

BYLINE:  Nazrin Gadimova

LENGTH: 281  words


Georgian students held peaceful protests with the slogan "Stop the annexation"
in seven cities across the country on October 13. Participants of the protests
accused Russia in the occupation of Georgian territories.

About 500 students who lined up in a "human chains" gathered in Tbilisi,
Rustavi, Telavi, Gori, Batumi, Kutaisi and Zugdidi during the protest actions.

One of the protesters said that the protest actions were planned in social
networks and similar protests will be held in the future, and it is desirable
that the wider population joined it it.

The main goal of the protests is to show the international community that the
majority of the country protest over the occupation by Russia.

The situation at the administrative border of Tskhinvali region (the so-called
South Ossetia) with the rest territory of Georgia has been in the spotlight of
the Georgian authorities and the international community for several months.

Russian border guard officers have begun establishing barbwire along the
de-facto border shortly after the conflict. The Georgian side claims that these
actions violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia, as well as
the principles of international law and the ceasefire agreement between Georgia
and Russia dated August 12, 2008.

Georgia and Russia, its giant northern neighbor, have maintained no diplomatic
relations since a brief war in 2008. Tbilisi broke off relations with Moscow in
August 2008 when Moscow crushed a Georgian assault to reassert control over two
rebel regions -- South Ossetia and Abkhazia -- and later recognized the regions.
Georgia announced the two unrecognized republics as occupied territories in
September 2008.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Azer News Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   Azer News

                            October 14, 2013 Monday

Protests against Russia's actions in de-facto border held in Georgia

BYLINE:  Nazrin Gadimova

LENGTH: 281  words


Georgian students held peaceful protests with the slogan "Stop the annexation"
in seven cities across the country on October 13. Participants of the protests
accused Russia in the occupation of Georgian territories.

About 500 students who lined up in a "human chains" gathered in Tbilisi,
Rustavi, Telavi, Gori, Batumi, Kutaisi and Zugdidi during the protest actions.

One of the protesters said that the protest actions were planned in social
networks and similar protests will be held in the future, and it is desirable
that the wider population joined it it.

The main goal of the protests is to show the international community that the
majority of the country protest over the occupation by Russia.

The situation at the administrative border of Tskhinvali region (the so-called
South Ossetia) with the rest territory of Georgia has been in the spotlight of
the Georgian authorities and the international community for several months.

Russian border guard officers have begun establishing barbwire along the
de-facto border shortly after the conflict. The Georgian side claims that these
actions violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia, as well as
the principles of international law and the ceasefire agreement between Georgia
and Russia dated August 12, 2008.

Georgia and Russia, its giant northern neighbor, have maintained no diplomatic
relations since a brief war in 2008. Tbilisi broke off relations with Moscow in
August 2008 when Moscow crushed a Georgian assault to reassert control over two
rebel regions -- South Ossetia and Abkhazia -- and later recognized the regions.
Georgia announced the two unrecognized republics as occupied territories in
September 2008.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Azer News Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             June 5, 2013 Wednesday

Davutoglu reacts to consecutive US statements on Turkey protests

LENGTH: 590  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has reacted to the
consecutive statements issued by the United States expressing concern over the
ongoing protests in Turkey during a phone conversation with US Secretary of
State John Kerry on Wednesday.



Describing the protests against the demolition of Gezi Park as "tests of
democracies," Davutoglu told his American counterpart that similar protests have
taken place in Europe and the US such as the "Occupy Wall Street" movement.

Davutoglu also said that while similar protests in other democratic countries
are seen as normal, the protests in Turkey are reflected differently. The
Turkish foreign minister underlined that the way that the protests are reflected
in the media depict Turkey as a "second class democracy."

Noting that Turkey respects people's right to protest, Davutoglu stressed that
there are marginal groups who want to hijack the environmental protests. He
added that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is able to distinguish between
peaceful protests and those by marginal groups.

Turkey's allies as well as international bodies have voiced concerns over the
protests, particularly the police violence reported during the clashes.

A new round of concern was expressed by US Vice President Joe Biden on Tuesday,
who urged Turkey's government to respect the rights of its political opponents.


Biden, speaking to the American-Turkish Council, said Turkey stood a chance to
reach its goal of becoming one of the world's 10 largest economies by 2023, but
that it should not stray from democracy.

"Turkey's future belongs to the people of Turkey and no one else. But the United
States does not pretend to be indifferent to the outcome," Biden said.

The protests that started as an objection to the demolition of Gezi Park in
Istanbul's Taksim Square evolved into anti-government demonstrations when
marginal groups and foreign agents reportedly hijacked the campaign. More than a
thousand protesters and hundreds of policemen have been injured in
demonstrations that have turned into the most violent rioting that Turkey has
seen for decades.

As opposed to the defiant tone used by Prime Minister Erdogan who accused
"thugs" and the country's main opposition, Republican People's Party (CHP), for
the violence, deputy Prime Minster Bülent Arinç and President Abdullah Gül sent
more conciliatory messages to the protestors. On Tuesday, Arinç apologized for
the undue and disproportionate police force against an initially peaceful group
of protestors in Gezi Park, while Gül said that they "got the message" of
protestors.

According to the US vice president, countries with open societies, political
systems and economies; democratic institutions; and a firm commitment to
universal human rights are the countries that will thrive and be the most
powerful nations of the 21st century.

"Today's Turkey has a chance to demonstrate that there's no need to choose
between economic advancement and democracy, the system that empowers the winners
of elections and yet protects those who are in the opposition," Biden said.

Separately, White House spokesman Jay Carney noted Arinç's apology and added:
"We hope that ... the Turkish government will handle this in a way that respects
the rights of free speech and assembly that are elemental to democracies. And we
welcome the deputy prime minister's comments apologizing for excessive force and
we continue to welcome calls for these events to be investigated," Carney stated
at a briefing.

(Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

EIPR rejects limitations on right to protest

BYLINE: Hend Kortam

LENGTH: 423 words


//

EIPR: Protests need protection, not legal limitations
(AFP File Photo of the 25 Jan 2011 protests)

The Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights (EIPR) has announced its rejection
of the Ministry of Justice's draft of the protest law.

In a Thursday statement, the human rights organisation said it rejected in form
and substance as well as the philosophy behind the law which places restrictions
on the right to assemble and protest.

Article 4 of the draft law allows the right to protest in a way that does not
breach security or public order, impede citizens' day to day activities, block
roads or transportation, or disrupt traffic, or property or the right to work,
or pose as a serious threat to any of the aforementioned.

EIPR described this as a "loose definition" that includes a set of unacceptable
restrictions that can be used to limit protests.

"Protests need protection, not legal limitations. What needs regulation and
legal limitations is the authority's intervention in peaceful gatherings," EIPR
said.

In addition, Article 5 of the draft law states that those wishing to organise a
protest must provide a written notification to the police, three days before the
protest. EIPR described this as a text isolated from reality and impossible to
apply citing that most protests in Egypt are spontaneous and not pre-planned.

"Even in countries that require a notification, the authority has no right to
ask those organising the protest to sign any papers or hold them legally
responsible for everyone who took part in the protest," the human rights group
added. It added that in most protests, there usually isn't one person who can
speak on behalf of the protest or bear responsibility for it and the actions and
events that may come with it.

The draft law limits police's ability to break up protests then gives an
exception, in cases allowed by the Penal Code and Police Corps Act. "The current
Police Corps Act allows the police to fire live bullets to disperse a protest,"
EIPR said.

EIPR took part in the discussion of the draft law by two committees in a joint
session between them in the Shura Council. It announced its rejection of the law
and decided not to join next discussions.

"The priorities of legislative amendments have to focus on the Police Corps
law... and the Egyptian legislative body has to fully review its legislative
priorities," EIPR added.

Related posts:

Several protests prevent constituent assembly from meeting

US concerned NGO draft law will weaken civil society

Shura Council committee discusses protest law

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

Why I Shunned Fuel Subsidy Protest - Terry G

BYLINE: Opeoluwani Akintayo

LENGTH: 172 words


At a time when fellow artistes were all out to protest against the removal of
Fuel Subsidy by the Jonathan adminstration, House of Ginger master, Terry G
never stepped a foot at the protests.

Terry G gave reasons why he didn't show up at the protest in an interview he
recently granted an online magazine, saying he didn't see any reason to be at
the protests.

According to Terry, the protest as a waste of time because instead of artistes
protesting against the removal of Subsidy, the protest became a means to perform
their songs.

...I don't get it, I saw artistes performing their songs and forgetting what the
protests really meant. What's the point in that? I'm not looking for that kind
of attention, he commented.

Instead of being at the protests, Terry G took out time to share already packed
food prepared by his mother, to hungry street children and area boys, claiming
that they needed his help more than his presence at the protests.

My people have found it hard to eat so I just brought some food for the hungry
kids, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Programme summary of Croatian TV news 1830 gmt 2 Mar 11

LENGTH: 242 words


1. 0044 Headlines.

2. 0125 Anti-government protests continue, organized by Facebook group;
correspondent says protestors urge government to resign, protests are calm and
peaceful; around 1,000 people join protests in Zagreb; 300 people stage protest
in Rijeka. Roundup of video reports.

3. 0832 Tourism Ministry worried that protests might affect tourist season.
Video report.

4. 0903 Midway headlines.

5. 0918 Opposition parties deny that they are supporting protests. Video report.

6. 1211 Opposition parties urge PM Kosor to set date for elections; PM Kosor
does not respond. Video report.

7. 1439 EU praises government's efforts to join EU, but urges even more effort
in fight against corruption and cooperation with The Hague. Video report.

8. 1615 Foreign news on Libya events. Video report.

9. 1819 Bosnian Serb President Dodik visits Croatia, meets President Josipovic;
they discuss return of refugees. Video report.

10. 2044 President Josipovic, Bosnia Serb leader Dodik join economic forum,
urging better economic cooperation. Studio report over video.

11. 2103 Midway headlines.

12. 2118 Serbian Prosecution wants Croatia to Croatia to investigate wartime
events in Maslenica where 22 Serbian soldiers were killed. Video report.

13. 2306 The Hague news. Video report.

14. 2358 Court news. Video report.

15. 2519 Strong wind, snow in Croatia. Video report.

16. 2713 Tourism. Video report.

[Duration: 29 min]

Source: HRT1 TV, Zagreb, in Croatian 1830 gmt 2 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday

Bosnian Serbs would not eagerly protest over Hague arrests, poll indicates

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report by Belgrade-based B-92 TV on 11 December

[Presenter] Citizens of Banja Luka are not quite sure that they would join
street protests if [Bosnian Serb wartime leaders, now Hague indictees] Radovan
Karadzic and Ratko Mladic were arrested.

Some of them, nevertheless, support today's protests in Croatia [following the
extradition of indictee Ante Gotovina to The Hague].

[Reporter] Would you join protests if Karadzic and Mladic were arrested?

[Citizen 1] I would join protests only if people protested about low wages, bad
living standards, lack of heating, etc.

[Citizen 2] I support them [referring to protests in Croatia].

[Reporter] Would you join protests if Karadzic and Mladic were arrested?

[Citizen 2] I would.

[Citizen 3] Of course, any time, why not? If they can, why can we not [probably
referring to protests in Croatia]?

[Citizen 4] It is all the same to me.

[Reporter] Would you join protests if Karadzic and Mladic were arrested?

[Citizen 4] I would not.

[Reporter] Why?

[Citizen 4] I mind my own business, let them mind theirs.

[Citizen 5] Why would I support them [the protests in Croatia]? In my opinion,
the whole Gotovina thing serves to pull the wool over Serbs' eyes. Gotovina was
arrested so that Serbs would calm down. Come on.

Source: B92 TV, Belgrade, in Serbian 1730 gmt 11 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                              May 30, 2016 Monday

Sanghiya gathabandhan contemplates further protests

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, May 30 -- Madhesi and Janajati parties have begun fresh discussion on
ways to take the anti-government and constitution protest ahead once the ongoing
mass campaign comes to an end on Monday. The first round of extended programmes
of protest is expected to conclude amid a formal programme in Pokhara--the
second largest city

Leaders affiliated to Sanghiya Gathabandhan, a joint alliance of ethnic and
Madhesi groups, said that the protest would continue.

But the parties are still undecided over the form, length and target of the
upcoming protest.

"The protest would continue but its length and nature would be decided only
after a meeting of the top leaders," said Rajendra Mahato, chairman of the
Sadbhawana Party. Gathabandhan's second rung leaders had held a meeting on
Friday to review the protest and discuss further moves.

While Gathabandhan allies are determined to continue the protest, some disputes
remain over its form and length. The Sanghiya Samajwadi Forum Nepal and most of
the ethnic parties in the alliance have insisted on more protest programmes
targeting large cities including Kathmandu. They have also argued on behalf of
confining the ongoing protest to an awareness campaign.

But Madhesi parties, including the Tarai Madhes Loktantrik Party and the
Sadbhawana Party, have stood in favour of resuming protest at the grassroots
level in the Tarai citing lack of expected support in the hills.

Meanwhile, talks to end the Tarai crisis stare at further delays, with the
government and the agitating parties blaming each other of being insincere over
talks.

The Gathabandan have sought another formal invitation from the government
addressing the Madhesi-Janajati alliance instead of the Samyukta Loktantrika
Madhesi Morcha.

"We are ready to sit for negotiation anytime if the government is serious about
finding a solution," said Ashok Rai, senior leader of the Sanghiya Samajwadi
Forum-Nepal.

Published: 30-05-2016 08:36

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                              July 28, 2014 Monday

Sindh protests against power outages

LENGTH: 374  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Staging a protest against power outages in Sindh, Pakistan People's Party on
Sunday gave a one month ultimatum to the federal government to end the power
crises in Pakistan.

The PPP protest was staged outside K-Electric head office, as several people
from different areas of Sindh also staged protests and sit-ins against frequent
power outages.

Addressing the protest, Senator Raza Rabbani said that "circular debt was paid
so that the power crises could end soon" but the situation is still the same. He
said that the privatisation of state institutions will not be allowed in any
situation.

The senator also announced his support for laborers after calling Prime Minister
Nawaz "a representative of capitalists".

MPs Nauman Islam Shaikh and Nafeesa Shah led a protest at Regional Office of
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). PPP workers also staged protests
at Dadu Press Club against power outages.

It should be noted that protests against power outages are underway in many
parts of Sindh as Hyderabad, Thatta, Badin, Mirpurkhas, Sukkur, Larkana and
Jacobabad are facing power cuts of upto 18 hours.

A protest was held at Hyderabad in which citizens and PPP workers were present.

The angry citizens blocked the National Highway to protest against prolonged
power load shedding at Mirpur Mathelo.

The protesters demanded that Sindh be given its due share of electricity.

Earlier, Sindh Information Minister Sharjeel Inam Memon said the massive power
breakdown on Friday hampered industrial production in the port city and that
citizens also suffered in the process.

Sindh Governor Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan directed K-electric, WAPDA and Water Board
to ensure regular electricity and water supply to the people of Sindh.

Friday's power breakdown across Karachi as well as in several parts of
Hyderabad, Jamshoro and other districts of the southern province had occurred
reportedly due to the tripping of production units in the National Grid Line.

The breakdown had come at a time when exporters were busy in meeting shipment
deadlines ahead of Eidul Fitr holidays.

Earlier, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM)'s coordination committee had also
condemned the power outages, saying it is imperative that both cities had
uninterrupted power supply.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Patriot

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

PAT protest adversely affected business activities

SECTION: Vol. 13 No. 174

LENGTH: 137  words


The traders community in twin cities of Islamabad and Rawalpindi on Monday said
that Pakistan Awami Tehreek protest on the arrival of its patron-in-chief
adversely affected their business activities.

The traders community said that these kinds of issues can aggravate problems,
demanding that there should be some specific places for protest demonstrations.

They said that people are busy in shopping for Ramazan ul Mubarak, but due to
protest of PAT, their business activities have been affected badly.

They claimed that due to these unnecessary protest demonstrations the traders
are suffering losses worth millions of rupees.

Gul Nawaz, a shopkeeper said that PAT protest has no sense, adding that  earlier
also these people was created mess in capital city and now again they are trying
to create problems for the common man.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 The Patriot
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

Democracy Index releases report on 2013 protests

BYLINE: Ali Omar

LENGTH: 587 words


Egyptian Islamist groups led by the ruling Muslim Brotherhood took part in a
demonstration to mark  anniversary since President Mohamed Morsi (portrait) was
elected, on June 21, 2013 in Cairo.
(AFP File Photo)

Democracy Index released Monday its comprehensive report on 2013's protests,
breaking down the 14,270 individual protests based on demands of the protesters.
The report is split into two, first detailing protests for social and economic
rights and lastly detailing civil and political demands.

According to the report, 70% of the protests that took place pre-30 June were
organised to demand social and economic rights, whereas post-ouster, only 20-30%
of protests were concerned with said rights.

A total of 3,212 protests were organised to demand labour rights, "especially
the right to work or the rights relating to appropriate pay" for workers.

A total of 1,052 protests were organised to claim wages, back pay, or promised
demands. Of the protests, the report says: "Workers, who lie between the hammer
of the low scarcity of wages and salaries and the anvil of price rises, have
[been given] no practical solution to the issue of minimum and maximum incomes."

2014 has already seen crippling strikes at factories such as the Mahalla
Spinning and Weaving company, although workers from seven companies later joined
the strikes.

Workers also gathered to protest corruption and nepotism, which, according to
the report, "were the main engine of uprising of the Egyptian people in January
[2011] and June [2013]".

2013 witnessed more than 2,000 protests pertaining to the education environment
in Egypt, although only 591 dealt with administrative issues. The report noted
that present conditions on college campuses are "worse than before 2011," and
that the educational environment is "something that requires the immediate
intervention of the state to protect the Egyptian education system from sliding
into a quagmire".

The health sector only witnessed two protests in 2013, but the Index noted that
"patients do not protest, they only suffer. This is what the Egyptian state must
be aware of ... only two demonstrations of their systems of patients do not
express the size of the face of violations of [patients'] rights in hospitals".

A total of 67% of 2013's protests, or 8,999, were political. According to the
report, "the fall of the regime and the beginning of the transitional phase
outlining a new regime amid political infighting" further encouraged protests.

According to the report, the first half of 2013 witnessed 1,312 anti-Muslim
Brotherhood protests, whereas post 3-July witnessed 2,679 protests against
interim authorities, who many accused of staging a coup.

A total of 1,149 protests were organised to express solidarity with detainees,
whose numbers swelled after Morsi's ouster and during the subsequent crackdown
on Muslim Brotherhood supporters.

Another 153 protests were organised to mobilise citizens against 2013's Protest
Law, which essentially outlaws public gatherings and marches unless permission
is granted by the Ministry of Interior.

The report, which intermittently questions future authorities' abilities to
control constant and ongoing protests, ends with "five basic tools" used to
suppress freedom in Egypt: restrictive legislation (the Protest Law);
suppressive security; political trials for demonstrators; encouragement of
citizens loyal to the regime to protest in favour of present authorities
themselves; and disinformation.

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2014 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

Report: Egypt averaged two protests an hour in May

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 293  words


With 5,544, Egypt witnessed the most protests in the world during the period
from 1 January to 31 May, according to a report released Sunday by an
Egypt-based research center.



According to the democracy index published by the International Development
Center (IDC), the month of May saw 1,300 protests, an average of two protests an
hour, 42 a day, and 325 a week.

The report said that 39 different Egyptian social groups staged in May 390
demonstrations, related to work conditions and workers' rights.

Economic and social demands, spurred by violations of workers' rights and
deteriorating services, triggered 63.7 percent of the protests, according to the
report.

Common citizens, the report outlines, were the second most disruptive segment of
society, accounting for 28.4 percent of all demonstrations in May. With 210
protests, activists and politicians staged 16.2 percent of all protests.

Pilots were the latest group to join the wave of protests last month.

Cairo, accounting for 18 percent of all protests, was the most rebellious
governorate, followed by Alexandria, Sharqiya, and Gharbiya. The rates in other
provinces in the Delta, Upper Egypt, and the border regions were similar.

The wave of protests, as the report explains, reflect in the Egyptian street
indignation at the ruling regime and a return to the habit of pressuring state
institutions and major corporations in order to retrieve lost rights.

Protests in May were more violent than in the preceding months, according to the
report. It stated that demonstrators managed to shut down institutions in 56
separate incidents, stormed facilities in 23, and besieged other buildings in
14. The number of protests featuring marches dropped to 57 in May, down from 120
in April, the report indicated.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2013 Egypt Independent
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Sussex Police launch specialist protest team

BYLINE: Peter Truman

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS (GENERAL NEWS)

LENGTH: 360 words


Police have unveiled a new tactic as they try to deal with an increase in
protests in Sussex.

With the number of protests in the county increasing in recent years,
particularly in Brighton and Hove, Sussex Police has announced that two
dedicated Protest Liaison Officers will shortly be introducing themselves to
protest groups.

Sergeant Mark Redbourn and PC Stephanie Franks will be making the visits over
the coming weeks.

According to Sussex Police, this is to 'develop its approach to enable greater
communication, understanding and facilitation of peaceful protests'.

Chief Inspector Paul Betts said: "Everyone has the democratic right to protest
and as we know the city of Brighton and Hove has always attracted diverse
communities and welcomed freedom of speech.

"It is therefore one of our core functions as a police service to facilitate
these protests whilst balancing this with the needs of the rest of the
community.

"While we have used officers in a protest liaison capacity in the city for a
number of years, we are now changing how these officers operate and, for the
first time, investing in a specialist team to build and maintain relationships
on a permanent basis.

"Sergeant Redbourn and PC Franks are working within our communities on a daily
basis. Over the coming weeks, they will be contacting protest groups directly,
offering information about their role and explaining ways of contacting them
before, during and after a protest.

"During protests they will be easily recognisable and visible by their light
blue police liaison officer tabards.

"Their primary role will be to increase engagement with protest groups by
supporting an open and honest two-way dialogue with them, before during and
after events.

"By doing this we hope to better facilitate peaceful protest, and provide a safe
environment for the protesters and others in the city."

He added: "We accept that some groups will not want to engage with us initially
and some may choose not to at all, which we will respect. But we owe it to the
many communities of Brighton and Hove, including those who engage in protest, to
try."

Will the new police scheme work? Tell us what you think.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Pakistan: PML-N plans nationwide protest against power cuts

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, March 28 -- The Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) has announced a
plan to hold nationwide protests against ongoing power cuts and high electricity
bills.

According to the schedule, PML-N will stage protests in Lahore, Karachi,
Peshawar and Quetta on March 31. It will then hold protests in Abbottabad,
Sialkot, Hyderabad and Sahiwal on April 2.

On March 3, protests will be held in Multan, Kasur, Sheikhupura and Dera Ismail
Khan while Rawalpindi, Bahawalpur, Kurk and Sargodha will witness protests on
April 4.

The schedule further said that there would be protests in Dera Ghazi Khan,
Gujrat and Okara on April 5.

The protests will be led by the parliamentarians and senior leadership.

Traders, students, laborers and local organizations will be contacted to
organize the protest plan Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 22, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Iranian TV news 0930 gmt 22 April 2011

LENGTH: 223 words


A. Headlines

B. Home and world news:

1. 0931 Report on the impact of targeted subsidies on the lives of Iranians,
particularly in the deprived regions. Video shows interview with peasants in
Esfahan, Khorasan and Qom provinces.

2. 0935 Report on the destruction of mosques and more protests in Bahrain. The
Bahrainis call today the day of defending the Koran. Video shows clashes,
protests, Italian defence minister defending Western stance in Bahrain, French
and other Western leaders meeting.

3. 0939 Report on protests in Saudi Arabia. Video shows protests.

4. 0940 The Yemenis will protest after Friday prayers today. They say this is
the last peaceful protest they will hold. Video shows previous protests.

5. 0942 Fighting in Misrata, Libya, continues. The US is planning to use armed
drones in Libya. Video shows heavy fighting.

6. 0943 Weather report.

7. 0944 Ayatollah Emami-Kashani led Friday prayers. He condemned the silence of
the international community towards the atrocities in Middle East.

8. 0945 Report on an accident between a bus and a train blocking the
Tehran-Karaj railway.

9. 0946 Report on a swan's affection for a tractor.

10. 0947 Sports

11. 0949 Calendar/ prayer times

12. 0950 Recap of headlines

13. 0951 End of bulletin.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
0930 gmt 22 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Youni Chandio & jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1481

LENGTH: 296  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Sunday. According to details, the members of the Pakistan Trade Union under the
leadership of Ghulam Rasool Memon, Pir Muhammad and others staged a protest
demonstration against the prolonged power outages and surge in electricity
tariff.

The members of the Solangi Social Welfare Association (SSWA) under the
leadership of Muhammad Waryam Solangi, Khadim Hussain Solangi and others staged
a protest demonstration against the open sale of narcotics in Hyderabad .

The workers of the Bangle Glass Industries under the banner of the Mehran
Mazdoor Union and under the leadership of Ashiq Ali, Muhammad Rehan and others
staged a protest demonstration in favor of their demands. The candidates, who
had passed IBA Test under the leadership of Azam Siddiqui, Nauman Shah and
others staged a protest demonstration for the reinstatement of their services
and issuance of their withheld salaries.

The members of the All Hindu Shagird Association under the leadership of Ram
Sigh, Molchand and others staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the
accused rapists of Kasturi Kolhi. A youth namely Muhammad Rehan Khan, resident
of Latifabad No-8 staged a protest demonstration for the provision of a job. The
PPP workers of Tando Jam chapter under the leadership of Altaf Hussain Unar and
others continued their protest demonstration against the local party leadership.

The members of the Left Unity Hyderabad chapter staged a protest demonstration
against rampant inflation. The Palestinian students of the University of Sindh
Jamshoro under the leadership of Muhammad Oaz, Saleman Baqir, Fahad and others
staged a protest demonstration against the Israeli aggressions and attack on the
Masjid-e-Aqsa.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Business World (Digest)

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday

Off duty gardai to protest today on levy;
Gardai Protest

LENGTH: 123 words



HIGHLIGHT: Off duty gardai are to hold a protest in Dublin today in protest at
the public sector pension levy which is currently going through the Dail.


Off duty gardai are to hold a protest in Dublin today in protest at the public
sector pension levy which is currently going through the Dail.

The demonstration is being organised by the Garda Representative Associaiton,
which has asked members to gather at Parnell Square at lunchtime for a march to
Government Buildings.

The association says the introduction of another levy on earnings is causing
"extreme concern" to its members.

In a statement announcing today's march, it said: "This protest is significant
in that a new generation of gardai will be protesting against government plans.
"Many of these gardai were in school during the pay protest of 1998. It is among
this new generation that the proposed levy will have the most effect."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Media World Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

Protests escalated in last three months: report

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 192  words


Protests in Egypt have escalated in the past three months, according to a report
issued Saturday by the Arab Foundation for Civil Society and Human Rights
Support.According to the report, 67 protests, sit-ins and strikes occurred
between July and September.Eight protests occurred at the Education Ministry,
six at the Journalists' Syndicate and five at the Cabinet headquarters. Six
protests were organized against the new Civil Service Law.Fourteen protests
occurred in July, including four by doctors, pharmacists, and teachers, three by
high school and university students, two by residents against water cuts, one by
public employees against the Civil Service Law, one by policemen, one by
laborers and two by the Muslim Brotherhood, said the report.Twenty-eight
protests occured in August, including eight protests by workers at the
Endowments Ministry department in Giza, workers at the Rock Ceramic factory,
workers at the General Authority for Industrial Development, workers at the
Integrated Oil Company and high school students and students of the Faculty of
Specific Education at Ain Shams University.


Edited translation from Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Derry Journal

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

PSNI recruitment event protest passes peacefully

BYLINE: Andrew Quinn

LENGTH: 491  words


A protest held outside a PSNI recruitment event in Derry has passed off
peacefully.

At around 3:30p.m. on Saturday afternoon approximately 60 protesters carrying
banners, Irish tricolours and placards made their way from Pilot's Row in the
Bogside, across the Peace Bridge and through St. Columb's Park where they were
stopped by police from entering the venue where the recruitment event took
place.

Independent Derry City and Strabane District Council councillor Gary Donnelly
was amongst the protesters.

Speaking to Journal' at the protest Colr. Donnelly said

"This is a protest led by the people of Derry against British policing.

"Over the last number of days there have been a number of homes ransacked by the
PSNI and there has been a dramatic increase in the number of stop and searches.
People have come here today to show their anger and opposition to British
policing," said Colr. Donnelly.

The PSNI maintained a heavy police presence throughout the protest.

The protesters eventually made their way from Browning Drive, through St.
Columb's Park to the entrance of St. Columb's Park House.

PSNI officers in high visibility jackets maintained a barrier across the
entrance during the protest.

Several PSNI land rovers observed the protest from less than 50 yards away.

There was no violence and no one was arrested. The protest lasted over an hour
and passed off without incident.

Elected members of the DUP, including Gregory Campbell and MLA for Foyle, Gary
Middleton, attended the protest.

Mr. Middleton described the protest as "disgraceful" and said he did not think
it was peaceful.

"I am disgusted at this protest because again, individuals have taken it upon
themselves to disrupt what is an employment opportunity for many.

"I think it's disgraceful that people who have come to this recruitment event
today have been denied that opportunity. I am all for peaceful protest and I
support the right of people to protest peacefully but what we have here today is
completely unacceptable."

The PSNI recruitment event was due to take place in Waterfoot Hotel on Saturday
October 10 but the police postponed the session as they feared a planned
Republican Network for Unity (R.N.U.) protest had the potential to interfere
with a wedding due to take place at the hotel at the same time.

Police then carried out a search after they received reports that a suspect
device had been planted near the hotel on October 9.

After a thorough search of the area a viable device was discovered in the
grounds of the hotel.

The event was then due to take place in the hotel on Saturday October 17 but
hotel owner Garvan O'Doherty decided against it because he feared for the safety
of customers and staff.

The PSNI then announced on Wednesday that an alternative venue had been found on
the event went ahead as planned on Saturday afternoon.

The PSNI held two information sessions at St. Columb's Park House and Justice
Minister, David Ford MLA, was in attendance.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INJF


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

KC to continue protest until TU office bearers resign

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, April 1 -- Dr Govinda KC said that he would go with fast-unto-death
protest unless the office bearers of Tribhuvan University resign.

Dr KC who has been staging the protest for the last 11 days accused the office
bearers for compelling him to stage protest. "The office bearers are the reason
behind my protest," KC added, "I will not give up the protest unless they
resign."

He also said that he would not ink any agreements today so that he had to go for
the protest for the sixth time in the future.

Dr KC's health fast deteriorating

Dr Govinda KC's health conditions are fast deteriorating as his protest entered
the 11th day on Wednesday. He has been regularly administered artificial oxygen.
However, he is finding hard to inhale owing to the chest pain, Dr Dibya Singh
Shah said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           October 18, 2014 Saturday

Democracy Index: 58 university protests in first week

BYLINE: Egypt Independent

LENGTH: 376  words


Egyptian universities have seen 58 protests by students on their first week
which started 11 October, a report by the Cairo-based International Development
Center has revealed.Universities have seen an average of 10 protests per day, 17
incidents of violence, 27 injuries among students and nine among security
agents, according to the center's Democracy Index. Police arrested 155
university students, six high school students and two preparatory school
students during the first week of study, it said,Eighteen students have been
dismissed, 56 others subjected to interrogation due to their involvement in
protests in the first week.Eighteen universities were hit by demonstrations.
Al-Azhar universities on top with 12 protests, followed by Cairo and Alexandria
with seven protests, Ain Shams and Helwan with four each and Menoufiya with
three protests.As for protests demands, the release of detained colleagues
ranked first, being voiced in 27 protests.

The enrollment of dismissed students was called for in 15 protests, and
objection to security violence and the presence of private security firm Falcon
at campuses was the major slogan in ten protests.Students used seven forms of
protest, including 27 protests, 18 marches , eight vigils, two human chains, one
class attendance strike, one rally and one road-blocking incident.Though
apolitical and largely peaceful, excessive security violence turned 30 percent
of the protests to violence. The report detected 17 incidents of violence at
Egyptian universities, ranging from student-student and student-police
confrontations to fights and assaults on Falcon's security equipment. The
encounters left 26 injuries among students and nine among security
agents.Haphazard security oppression of students materialized in preemptive
arrests of students over charges of planning for protests, according to the
report, which said some students were arrested for visiting their detained
colleagues.The report slammed university administrations for handling students
as enemies rather than partners, suspending student societies and hiring
informants among students to tell on their colleagues, as the report put it. It
recommended the opening of channels of dialogue with students to evade a campus
uprising.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

BRIEF: Turkish police cracking down on protest

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 218 words


March 12--Turkish police is dispersing the participants of a protest, which
began during the funeral of the 15-year-old Elvan Berkin, Al Jazeera Turk
reported on March 12.

Over 1000 people have currently gathered at the funeral, which is taking place
in Istanbul, according to the TV channel.

It is also reported that over 100 people have been detained in the protests,
which are now being held in other cities of Turkey.

Last night there were mass protests in 32 Turkish cities over the death of the
15-year-old Elvan Berkin, who suffered a head injury during a rally in May last
year.

The largest protests were observed in Istanbul and Ankara.

Anti-government protests took place in Turkey for nearly three weeks beginning
in late May.

Turkish oppositional parties accused the police of using excessive force against
protestors.

In total, around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in
protests during the three weeks, the Turkish Interior Ministry said.

As a result of the unrests in Turkey nearly 4,000 people were injured with
varying severity, 4,900 were detained by the police.

Translated by E.A.

Edited by C.N.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140312-1AZ-BRF-Turkish-police-cracking-down-on-protest-0312-20140312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              187 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

Majority of Russians not willing to take part in political protests - poll

LENGTH: 370 words


The overwhelming majority of Russians are not willing to participate in
political protests, a poll published on the Russian independent polling
organization Levada Centre website on 22 January shows. The poll was conducted
in late December 2013 in 45 Russian provinces with an error margin of no more
than 3.4 per cent.

The respondents were asked whether or not protests due to a decrease in the
quality of life were likely to happen where they lived and whether they would
take part in these protests. The same questions were asked about
politically-motivated protests.

The majority of respondents (80 per cent) said they "probably would not" take
part in politically-motivated protests, with only 9 per cent saying that they
"probably would". The part of the poll on protest acts conducted for social
reasons or as the question was phrased, "against decline in the quality of life
and in defence of your rights", produced slightly different figures: 23 per cent
of respondents believe such protests are likely to take place where they live
(67 per cent believe they are not), and 13 per cent "probably would take part"
in such protest acts while 75 per cent "probably would not", the Levada poll
states.

Levada has been polling Russians on whether they were willing to take part in
political protests since December 2009. The proportion of roughly 10 per cent
who were willing to protest against roughly 80 per cent who were not remained
largely unchanged over the five years with 3-per-cent fluctuations at most, with
the exception of December 2011: 17 per cent were ready to take to the streets,
which is the highest figure over the five-year period.

Polls on social protest with similar questions have been conducted by Levada
irregularly since 1994. The number of people who thought social protests were
likely to occur where they lived was highest in 1998 (43 per cent) and lowest in
2002 (17 per cent). Over the past three years, the figure dropped from 29 per
cent in 2011 to 23 per cent in 2013.

The number of people willing to take part in social protests is currently at its
lowest since 1994. The figure was at its highest of 26 per cent in 1996.

Source: Levada Centre website, Moscow, in Russian 0800 gmt 22 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

511 student protests in November: Democracy Meter

BYLINE: Fady Ashraf

LENGTH: 507 words


Azhar University students protest on November 2013.The nationwide branches of
Al-Azhar University topped the charts for number of protests.
(Photo by Mohamed Omar\File)

A Saturday report by Democracy Meter said that 511 student protests took place
in universities, higher institutes and schools during November, with an average
of 17 daily protests. A total of 457 protests were held in universities.

The nationwide branches of Al-Azhar University topped the charts for number of
protests, with 101, while Cairo University ranked second with 52 and Alexandria
University saw 46.

The report claimed that 296 students and 12 teachers were arrested in November
while 423 students were dismissed from their universities.

Students were handed three verdicts in November. Twelve Al-Azhar students
received a 17-year verdict for breaking into Al-Azhar on 14 November and burning
its library, the first-degree 11-year-verdict, which was later reduced, handed
to 14 Alexandria students on 27 November and an 18 month verdict handed to 38
Al-Azhar students for assaulting policemen.

According to the report, the reasons behind the protests varied, with 186
protests demanding the release of detained students, 64 against the trial of
former president Mohamed Morsi and 58 held against "the military coup".

Meanwhile, 35 protests were against police interference in universities, 27
protests were in support of the army while 15 were held against the Protest Law.

The report read that the protests were not always politically-motivated, with
12% of November protests launched against educational circumstances, as joining
or switching universities and high dormitory rents.

Different methods of protest were used: including 153 demonstrations, 142
marches and 26 cases of striking were reported, as well as 25 cases of road
blocking, five building break-ins, one case of vandalism and one sit-in were
also reported.

The report added that November witnessed 70 incidents of violence during student
protests, with 35 clashes between Muslim Brotherhood students and independent
students, while 21 clashes took place between security forces and Muslim
Brotherhood students.

The report claimed that 296 students were arrested in November while 423
students were dismissed from universities.

According to the report, the number of protests increased from October to
November by  26% since October. The total number of student protests since the
beginning of the school year amounts to 1,122.

Protests and clashes in universities, especially in Al-Azhar and Cairo
universities has become a daily scene, especially after the death of one
Al-Azhar student on 21 November and an engineering student, Mohamed Reda, in
Cairo University on 28 November, both during clashes with police forces.

Related posts:

Protests at various universities on first day of classes

Protests continue in universities as police forces stand by campuses' gates

Former FJP Shura council member arrested

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Daily NewsEgypt 2013 Provided by
Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 5, 2013 Saturday

College students in Burma's Rakhine State protest against short supply of food

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of unattributed "Narinjara News" report headlined "Students Protest in
Kyaukphyu Education College" published by Burmese website Narinjara on 4 January

Kyauk Pru [Kyaukpyu]: Students of the Education College in Kyaukphyu in Arakan
[Rakhine] State staged a protest in their campus on Wednesday's [2 January]
evening.

One of the students said they staged the protest because they have been
suffering from insufficient supply of foods in their college.

"It has been already three days about 60 students have to skip their meals
because of the shortage of rice at the mealtime in our college. So, we gathered
around 7 pm yesterday inside the campus and staged protest", said the student.

He said that there are nearly 500 students studying in the Kyaukphyu Education
College and that only the male students participated in the protest.

When contacted to the college, a female teacher also confirmed the students'
protest. She however declined to tell the details about the protest saying that
she had no authority to speak to the media.

It is learnt that the teachers of the college had held a meeting just after the
protest in order to discuss how to respond the crisis facing their students in
the college.

Source: Narinjara News website, Dhaka, in English 0000gmt 04 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Comparing these protests to others

BYLINE: The Gazette

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 183 words


Re: "Protest and perspective" (Gazette, June 16).

Jack Todd has obviously spent some time researching past protests, by students
or otherwise, for his article that attempts to draw parallels between the
current protests and past ones. The parallels are tenuous - protests in France,
Chicago and during the Vietnam War were about important issues, whereas our
protest, let us not forget, is about a couple of hundred bucks.

Let's face it: if the government had given in to the students and kept the fees
frozen, there would have been no further protests or violence, and no debate
about politics or law and order.

As for access to higher education, the government has already agreed to expand
the bursary/grant/ loan programs for students in need. This leaves only the
necessary smarts as a prerequisite for access.

Mr. Todd also takes a dim view of police actions during a protest. While
peaceful protests are well-tolerated, the police have a duty to stop any
violence and vandal-ism. Is Mr. Todd implying that the police in Montreal are as
aggressive as the ones in Chicago in 1968?

Henno Lattik Montreal

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Jordanian youth movements to stage pro-reform rally in capital 4 May

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report by Khalil Qandil entitled "Youth protest movements to stage rally
titled 'May God guide you to all that would ensure his satisfaction and your
good' in Al-Nakhil Square"  by Jordanian Islamic newspaper Al-Sabil on 3 May

Several Jordanian youth and popular pro-reform protest movements called for
staging a rally titled "May God Guide You To All That Would Ensure His
Satisfaction and Your Good," tomorrow after the Friday prayers in Al-Nakhil
Square.

The protest movements said in a statement that the rally will be staged to call
for reform, fight corruption, reject the method of forming and changing
governments in Jordan, and "to reject the regime's continuing circumvention,
falsification, lying, bullying, and arrests in dealing with popular pro-reform
demands."

The statement said: "We reject the policy of replacing persons and call for
changing this method. We reject any election without a complete reform system.
We are certain that the regime stands by and sponsors the corrupt, which is both
serious and bad. We reject the appointment of governments, Wadi al-Arabah
governments, and the governments of collaboration and treason."

The statement listed the following protest movements that will participate in
the rally: The Jordanian Youth Protest Movement, Islamic Youth Protest Movement,
Al-Karak Popular Pro-Reform Protest Movement, the Youth Coalition of Ma'an,
Dhiban Youth Coalition, 24 March Youth Movement, Al-Husayn Protest Movement,
Al-Nuzhah Protest Movement, Al-Tafayilah Neighbourhood Protest Movement, and
representatives of the other youth and popular protest movements in Jordan.

Source: Al-Sabil, Amman, in Arabic 3 May 12 p 1

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Learn how to protest peacefully

BYLINE: Pete Price

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 294 words


IHAVE been appalled by what I have seen on the news reports about the recent
student protests up and down the country, particularly in London I'm all for
people standing up for what they believe in but exactly what do they think they
will achieve by smashing up buildings and vehicles and throwing rubbish at
police.

I too believe that education should be a right not a privilege but some of the
people taking part in the protests are using this cause as an excuse to resort
to violence.

Liverpool has seen protests in the last couple of weeks, the first of which
seemed well organised and fairly peaceful. The second, unlike the first,
organisers didn't even speak to the police before or even during the protest to
discuss their plans. The police even appealed in the ECHO for the organisers to
contact them.

Some of the people involved decided to take part in a spontaneous roof top
protest that meant a main road being closed for an hour. Another group decided
to march into town causing problems for shoppers and businesses. When I met with
Merseyside chief constable Jon Murphy last week he told me that the police are
keen to facilitate peaceful protests but to do this they need the co-operation
of the organisers and those involved. People should protest but peacefully but
these people seem to be thinking about just themselves. Several officers have
been hurt in protests across the country. And these protests are not cheap to
police particularly if the officers do not know what to expect. If there are to
be more of these protests it will be the public who will end up picking up the
cost in their council tax.

I wish students and their supporters the best of luck with their cause but I
believe behaving in this way will do more damage than good.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Pete Price and chief constable Jon Murphy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday

Kosovo Albanian NGOs, radical movement, to hold protest over EULEX-Serbia deal

LENGTH: 613 words


Text of report by Kosovo Albanian privately-owned newspaper Express on 10
September

[Report by Besiana Xharra: "Preparations for Protests"]

Pristina, 9 Sep -- If everything goes to plan, thousands of citizens are
expected to protest in the coming days against the signing of the protocol on
police cooperation between Serbia and EULEX [European Union Rule of Law
Mission].

The protest is expected to be similar to the protest rally held last year
against the infamous six-point plan [UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's plan for
deployment of EULEX]. Now, 20 different organizations and individuals have taken
the initiative to rally citizens to protest against EULEX, which, according to
them, continues to deny the independent state of Kosovo.

"A large number of organizations have confirmed their participation in this
protest rally, which will be against the EULEX-Serbia protocol. It is evident
that EULEX continues to insist on signing documents with Serbia that are against
the independence of Kosovo," said Avni Zogiani, chairman of the Rise Up
nongovernmental organization, one of many that will take part in this protest.

According to Zogiani, there are 15 organizations so far that have confirmed
participation in this protest and we expect the support of citizens, but also of
political figures.

"We have contacted several political figures and they have responded
positively," Zogiani said. When asked to reveal organizational details, he said
that they were in contact with other organizations and that they were going to
agree on the protest together.

"But, I can say that the protest will resemble the one that was held against the
six-point plan. There will be differences, but the overall scenario will be the
same," he said.

Petrit Zogaj from the organization, Speak Out 08, is also confident that this
protest will be massive.

"We will decided many details of the protest in the coming days. What I can say
now is that the protest will be massive and that the decision to hold it is
final," Zogaj said.

He said that the initiative for the protest had come from the Self-Determination
Movement, but it had everyone's support.

Self-Determination Movement leader Albin Kurti said that he could not reveal
anything until a meeting of all participating organizations was held.

"After the meeting that we will hold in the coming days, we will hold a press
conference to reveal the details of the protest," Kurti said.

He did not say whether the protest was going to be similar to the one organized
with 20 other organizations against the six-point plan, which was attended by
thousands of citizens.

No incidents were reported during that protest, at which it was said that the
deployment of EULEX based on UN Resolution 1244 and its neutrality to the status
meant that it was against the independence of Kosovo and would legalize parallel
structures in Kosovo.

The situation is the same now. A hot debate has been going on in the past two
weeks between the Kosovo officials, international community, Serbs about the
signing of this protocol.

EULEX is in favour of the protocol with Serbia, despite the Kosovo Government's
opposition because, according to it, the protocol would make their job to
prevent organized crime and other crimes, especially in the northern part of
Kosovo, easier.

On the other hand, Belgrade has announced that this agreement between Serbia and
EULEX will be signed at the end of September.

Serbian Minister for Kosovo Goran Bogdanovic has said that this document would
define the war against all forms of crime.

He told the Serbian media that Kosovo is "a black hole of arms, drugs, and human
trafficking."

Source: Express, Pristina, in Albanian 10 Sep 09, p7

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Essex Chronicle

                            October 14, 2016 Friday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 127  words


CAMPAIGNERS gathered outside a hospital to support the NHS.

The North Hertfordshire People's Assembly held a peaceful protest in Stevenage
on Sunday.

Holding home-made signs and placards, campaigners pitched up outside Lister
Hospital to   give their backing to   employees.

Some of those who joined the protest included NHS workers.

Protesters also made a stand against cuts and reductions in services.

Martin Burke, from the North Hertfordshire People's Assembly, said: "Day by day
we see our NHS falling further away from us and into the hands of corporate
greed.

"We urge the public to get involved if they don't wish to see a system, like in
the United States, where bankruptcy and humiliations face people on a daily
basis because they can't afford healthcare."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.
Campaigners protest at Lister Hospital in support of the NHS.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   The Robesonian (Lumberton North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 8, 2016 Friday

Dial again protests Pembroke vote

BYLINE: Sarah Willets, The Robesonian, Lumberton, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


April 08--LUMBERTON -- Allen Dial has filed a new protest in the race for
Pembroke mayor, again questioning the eligibility of some voters in the March
election.

Dial filed the protest Thursday, according to G.L. Pridgen, director of the
Robeson County Board of Elections. The protest is similar to one filed by Dial
following the election alleging that 11 Pembroke voters were not eligible to
cast ballots.

Official results of the election, which was a do-over of one held in November,
showed Dial 10 votes behind Greg Cummings, the apparent winner.

Pridgen did not have an exact number of votes being challenged in the latest
protest, but said it was about the same as the previous one. A preliminary
hearing on the new protest had not been scheduled as of Friday afternoon.

Citing "a lack of probable cause," the Elections Board dismissed Dial's first
protest during a preliminary hearing on April 1.

During the hearing, Dial asked to amend his protest and requested that the
hearing be recessed until he was given a list of all the people who voted in
Pembroke on Election Day. Although his request for a recess was denied, the
board dismissed the protest, but noted that the dismissal was the only way for
Dial to amend it. Dial was given 48 hours after receiving the voter list to file
a new protest if he wished.

Steve Stone, chairman of the Elections Board, said during the preliminary
hearing that the protest also contained allegations of vote buying.

Cummings served on the Pembroke Town Council from 1991 to 2011 and is currently
Robeson County's economic developer. Dial, who served 16 years on the Pembroke
Town Council, is an auctioneer and business owner.

Pembroke has been without a mayor since the death of Milton Hunt a year ago.

Sarah Willets can be reached at 910-816-1974 or on Twitter @Sarah_Willets.

___ (c)2016 The Robesonian (Lumberton, N.C.) Visit The Robesonian (Lumberton,
N.C.) at www.robesonian.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160408-QK-Dial-again-protests-Pembroke-vote-0408-20160408

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QK


                         Copyright 2016 The Robesonian


                              196 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday

Traders hold protest against WHT

SECTION: Vol. XXIX No. 184

LENGTH: 275  words


The trade bodies, including small traders' organizations, under the banner of
United All Pakistan Anjuman-e-Tajiran, on Wednesday held protest rallies and
demonstrations across the country, in all provinces' all districts and divisions
against imposition of 0.3% withholding tax on banking transactions by the
government.

APAT central general secretary Naeem Mir addressing a protest camp in Lahore
said that the APAT district and division chapters also held protest rallies in
their respective markets to appose the heavy taxation system of the government.

In Lahore, the all groups of All Pakistan Anjuman-e-Tajiran set up a protest
camp at Faisal Chowk in front of Punjab Assembly Hall to lodge protest against
WHT on banks transactions. Ashraf Bhatti, Ch Mehboob Sirki, Naeem Mir etc
addressed the protesters. In Urdu bazaar, a group of traders held protest
wearing black ribbons while another protest camp was set up in Shah Alam Market
to raise the voice against huge taxation measures of the govt.

Naeem Mir addressing at the protest camp of traders near Punjab Assembly, said
that according to the new strategy, traders have protested today, on September 4
(Friday) they would observe boycott of banks, besides observing a Bad-Dua Day
(Day of Curse) against government after Juma prayers.

After that they would pull their shutter down across the country on September 9.
He said that in case of non-acceptance of demands, then again shutter down
strike would be observed on October 7.

Other group of APAT president Ashraf Bhatti called upon the government to
immediately withdraw 0.3 per cent WHT on banking transactions of Rs50,000 and
more per day.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Protest Planned in Front of TCS

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: KAKKANAD


KAKKANAD, Feb. 5 -- After a brief lull, the sacked employees of TCS associated
with the Association of IT Employees (CITU) are all set to stage a protest by
covering their faces in front of the TCS. The protest will be held at 5 pm on
Friday.

"The protest is just a beginning of the mass protest which is to be staged
against the TCS in the coming days. Employees sacked from the TCS and other
working professionals will take part in the protest. As many as 200 employees
will take part in the protest," said A D Jayan, general secretary of AITUC, in a
press conference.

The AITUC planned the protest after the TCS authorities at Info park kept away
from the meeting called for settling the issues amicably. "So far they have
sacked only best performers in the company who have more than ten years of
experience. The sacking has been done as a part of their profit generating
mantra," he alleged.

He also said that the sacked employees are on the verge of committing suicide as
they have taken several loans from banking institutions.

"At present the TCS is offering two months salary for the sacked employees. How
can they live with that meagre amount? Most of them are living here with their
family and they can't meet their expense with the meagre amount," he added.

AITUC district secretary R Ratheesh and the sacked employees of the TCS attended
the press conference.

Meanwhile, the Ernakulam Labour Commissioner will hold a meeting with the TCS
authorities at the collectorate on Thursday to discuss the issue.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 12, 2012 Monday

Libyan GNC spokesperson: Protests are legitimate but must be regulated

LENGTH: 149 words


The official spokesperson for Libya's General National Congress, Umar Humaydan,
said in an interview with Libya al-Ahrar TV that the GNC had passed new
legislation regulating protests in Libya. The measures include the need to
inform authorities before holding a protest, giving details of time, place,
duration and cause.

"We passed this legislation to protect protestors and others, to protect the
protests themselves and to protect others from protests", said Humaydan, adding:
"The right of protest is nevertheless a constitutional right, enshrined in
statutes and protected by law". He criticised protests which caused damage to
public property and held up traffic, without referring to any specific
incidents.

Humaydan went on to say that the maximum penalty for breaking the rules is 5,000
Libyan dinar, or a custodial punishment.

Source: Libya (Al-Ahrar) TV, Doha, in Arabic 1635 gmt 11 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday

Huge increase in service delivery protests

BYLINE: Nashira Davids

SECTION: HUMAN INTEREST

LENGTH: 435 words



 THIS year could go down in history as the time when service delivery protests
exploded in South Africa. About 80% of protests have become more violent -
especially during the winter months.


 These were some of the findings by the Multi-Level Government Initiative
(MLGI), which tracked protests between February 2007 and August this year
through media reports.
 The project released its Service Delivery Protest Barometer in Cape Town
yesterday.
 The research corroborates the findings of local government data and
intelligence service Municipal IQ - that in addition to the unprecedented spike
in protests this year and the increase in violence, the Western Cape has had to
shoulder most of the unrest in the country.
 The term "protest" was defined during research as: "Any complaint or issue
cited by protesters in reports, whether related to the delivery of municipal
services or not, over which citizens decide to and actually engage in organised
public protest activity."
 Other findings included that:
 oOverall, protest activity had risen dramatically in the first eight months of
2012, with 226 protests;
 oShould present trends continue, this year would have more than twice as many
protests as last year and more protests than 2010 and last year together;
 oThe Western Cape had this year surpassed Gauteng as the province with the
highest number of violent protests; and
 oThe Western Cape, Eastern Cape and Gauteng accounted for 56.98% of all
protests.
 "Land and housing issues are the most oft-cited with 303 incidents over the
six-year period, with poor service delivery the second most frequent at 218
incidents.
 "Grievances related to broken promises and government officials ignoring
protesters' grievances have risen exponentially since 2010 but still account for
less than 10% of the total complaints," the report said.

 University of the Western Cape Community Law Centre director Professor Nico
Steytler said protests increased in winter. "Often it is because the grievances
and the issues are the most severely felt in winter - like housing, electricity,
access to roads."

 But MLGI researchers have warned against too many conclusions being drawn from
the study, saying more research was needed.
 MLGI head Professor Jaap de Visser said they had only started to collect
information on a complicated issue.
  "Let us build up our knowledge about protests over a period of time ... It is
not just something we should do - government should put serious effort into
analysing protest activity and use that information to improve its performance
and its engagement."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Protest start in Syria after Tunisia, Yemen, and Bahrain

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: Syria


Syria, March 21 -- At least three people have been killed due to police firing
on protestors, in Syria.

Protests in the Arab league have reached Syria after going through Tunisia,
Yemen and Bahrain. Pro-democracy protests in Yemen continued in Yemen as
protestors took out a rally in the capital city of Sana'a on Friday.

The protests in Syria have erupted. A small protest three days ago of about 150
people gathered momentum and speared throughout the country. So far, at least
three people were killed in the protests in Dara as thousands of people attended
their funeral. The protestors now demand the resignation of President Bashar
al-Assad.

The police in an effort to stop the protests opened fire on the people, killing
at least 42 people and injuring more than 300. Later Yemen President, Ali
Abdullah Saleh dismissed his entire cabinet after several government officials
resigned due to the crack-down on the ongoing Pro-democracy protests. Also the
United Nations in protest announced the resignation of the Syrian Ambassador
Abdullah Alsadi.

On the other hand, a crack-down on the protestors in Bahrain continued.
Thousands attended the funeral of 47-year-old protestor who was killed in the
crack-down. Despite the government declaring an emergency in the kingdom, the
people refused to go back to their homes.

Protest also continued in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia, as
protesters called for the release of prisoners being held captive for years
without a trial. The protestors also tried to break in the building of the
interior ministry. After the protest erupted, the Saudi government announced a
new package of US$ 67 billion which brought pay increases, elimination of
unemployment and development Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           Manila Times (Philippines)

                             October 3, 2016 Monday

Marcos asks tribunal to junk Robredo's rebuttal

BYLINE: JOMAR CANLAS

LENGTH: 437 words


SOURCED FROM CURRENT GLOBAL NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS

The counter-protest of Vice President Maria Leonor "Leni" Robredo is in danger
of being dismissed by the Supreme Court, which is sitting as the Presidential
Electoral Tribunal (PET) for the electoral protest of former senator Ferdinand
"Bongbong" Marcos Jr. in connection with the vice-presidential race.

Marcos has asked the PET to dismiss the counter-protest filed by Robredo, as it
failed to meet the deadline set by law.

In his "motion to strike out or expunge protestee's verified answer with
manifestation and answer ad cautelam to the counter-protest," Marcos pointed out
that Robredo's counter-protest was filed out of time or beyond the 10-day
prescribed period mandated by the PET. Marcos, represented by veteran election
lawyer George Erwin Garcia, filed his election protest on June 29, stating that
Robredo's proclamation as vice president was "null and void because the
[certificates of canvass] \x85 are not authentic, and may not be used as basis
to determine the number of votes that the candidates for vice president
received."

Marcos argued that Robredo's verified answer with special affirmative defenses
and counter protest should have been filed by August 12, the 10th day from her
receipt of the summons and protest of Marcos in accordance with Rules 23 and 24
of the PET Rules.

Based on the receiving stamp of the PET clerk, Robredo's answer was filed on
August 15, three days after the August 12 deadline.

Under PET rules, a verified answer to an electoral protest may incorporate a
counter-protest but it must be filed within 10 days from receipt of the summons
and protest.

"Robredo categorically admitted in her Verified Answer \x85 that she received
the summons and protest on 02 August 2016," Marcos noted.

Marcos, who was only 263,473 votes shy of Robredo's tally, had accused her of
"massive electoral fraud, anomalies and irregularities" involving the
pre-shading of ballots, pre-loading of secure digital storage cards for voting
data, misreading of ballots, malfunctioning vote-counting machines, and an
"abnormally high" number of unaccounted votes or "undervotes," among others.

Marcos wants a judicial revision or recount of the ballots and the examination,
system audit and verification of the voter's receipts, election returns and
related election documents.

The PET had ordered the preservation of the automated election equipment and
records such as vote-counting machines, consolidation and canvass system units,
secure digital cards, and other data storage devices in all 92,509 clustered
precincts used in the May 2016 elections.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political/General News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 News Bites Pty Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Imphal Free Press (India)

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

AAP Manipur to join protest against BJP leaders

LENGTH: 147 words

DATELINE: IMPHAL


IMPHAL, June 28 -- With Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announcing to stage a sit-in-
protest in every capital city of the country tomorrow in protest against the
Ministers inducted in the Union Cabinet and BJP leaders under Prime Minister
Narendra Modi, AAP Manipur has also made necessary arrangement to join in the
country-wide protest.

The sit-in-protest in the state protest will be held under the supervision of
Manihar Singh, state co-ordinator of AAP Manipur.

Mention may be made that the protest is to be staged against BJP Ministers and
top leaders including HRD Minister Smriti Irani, External Affairs Minister
Sushwa Swaraj, Chief Minister of Rajasthan Vasundhara Raje and Panjak Munde.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Imphal Free Press. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Imphal Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                The Jordan Times

                             March 16, 2015 Monday

2014 marked by 'sharp drop' in labour protests -- report

LENGTH: 406  words


by Dana Al Emam | Mar 16, 2015 | 22:38  Updated: Mar 16, 2015 | 22:38

AMMAN -- Last year witnessed a "remarkable" drop in the number of labour
protests despite the lack of measures to improve workers' conditions, according
to the Phenix Centre for Economic and Informatics Studies.

According to a report released by the centre on Monday, 474 labour protests took
place across the Kingdom in 2014, with the majority demanding better pay and
more protective regulations for workers.

Jordan registered 890 labour protests in 2013, while the number stood at 901 in
2012.

The "sharp" drop in last year's protests was due to "the government's
interventions", according to Ahmad Awad, Phenix centre director.

Awad told reporters that government officials as well as leaders of labour
unions have declared their stance "against" labour protests, noting that the
efficacy of protests decreased as private and public institutions did not
respond to the demands of workers.

Since the beginning of the Arab Spring the number of labour protests in Jordan
was on the rise, but the drop last year could also be linked to the region's
"political and economic regression", he argued.

"The year 2014 witnessed the first incidence of arresting labour protesters,"
Awad said, while some workers were fired, moved to other jobs or received salary
cuts for participating in demonstrations.

Over 45 per cent of labour protests in 2014, which involved some 250,000 workers
in several sectors, occurred in private institutions, and over 60 per cent were
implemented outside the framework of labour unions, which explains why the
majority of protests lasted only for one day, he noted.

According to the report, the services sector witnessed 125 protests, followed by
the education and transportation sectors, with 64 and 51 protests respectively,
while 80 protests were organised by unemployed people to demand job
opportunities.

The report called for increasing wages at the private and public sectors and
re-evaluating the minimum wage (JD190), as well as linking it to inflation
rates. It also recommended expanding the social security umbrella to include
health insurance, as half of the workforce in Jordan is not insured.

The study, conducted in cooperation with the German Friedrich-Ebert Stiftung
office in Amman, highlighted the importance of allowing workers to form
autonomous unions and labour associations that can deepen the culture of
dialogue among stakeholders.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 62


                        Copyright 2015 The Jordan Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           February 24, 2015 Tuesday

Locals call off protest in Simara

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: BIRGUNJ


BIRGUNJ, Feb. 24 -- After 10 long days of strike, locals of Simara on Tuesday
withdrew their protests.

The locals withdrew their protest following an understanding with local
political parties and stakeholders. Normalcy has returned to the town following
withdrawal of protest by the locals.

Issuing a press statement, Bhola Adhikari, coordinator of the struggle committee
formed by the locals, announced withdrawal of protests. Chabi Lal Poudel of
Nepali Congress (NC) and Krishna Khanal of CPN-UML, who led the protest, have
also signed the statement.

After the withdrawal of government's decision to set up Kalaiya-based District
Land Revenue Office and District Survey Office service centers in their town,
locals of Simara had been staging protest since February 15. The protests led to
clashes between the locals and the police injuring dozens.

NC and CPN-UML leaders were of the opinion that the protest by locals of Simara
was backed by the leaders of CPN-Maoist.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Protest demos held against electricity, POL price hike

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 713

LENGTH: 152  words


Activists of mainstream Opposition parties and common people Wednesday took out
protest rallies against the increase in POL prices and power tariff. PPP staged
a protest demonstration in Multan that started from Chowk Nawan Shehr. A large
number of citizens participated in the protest rally and shouted anti-government
slogans.

PTI workers took out a protest rally from Kalma Chowk in Toba Tek Singh and
slammed the anti-people policies of the government. Strike was observed at
District Bar Vehari while the lawyers also organised a protest demonstration
against the increase of POL prices.

Transporters also staged protest rallies in different areas of Faisalabad. The
protesters blocked the roads and shouted slogans against the government.

The transporters warned that if the notification for the increase in electricity
and power prices was not withdrawn, they would give call for a countrywide
wheel-jam strike.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday

PTI's principled stance

BYLINE:  J Khan - Lahore

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 221  words


This is with reference to the news item "Show of unity: PTI leaders attend DPC
and JUD protests" (July 7). The news item gave the impression that the Pakistan
Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) participated in the Difa-e-Pakistan Council (DPC) protest
in Multan against the reopening of the Nato supply routes.

The PTI leadership has clearly spelt out that the party will not join protests
organised by any other political party or alliance and will follow its own
independent schedule of protests. A rally was held according to schedule in
Gujranwala on July 5, which will be followed by a protest rally in Peshawar on
July 14.

It is abundantly clear that the PTI has not joined protests organised by other
political parties or alliances. The fact that certain members of the party
attended a protest organised by the DPC does not automatically qualify as the
PTI's participation in such protests. The party's membership has swelled to over
five million according to some estimates and participation by any of the members
should not be misconstrued as its involvement in such protests. The PTI does not
need to forge any alliances for public mobilisation as it has held successful
political rallies all over the country on its own. The party will follow its own
course of action in accordance with its political ideology and principled
stance.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday

Nisar announces 4-point protest strategy

BYLINE:  Anwer Abbas

SECTION: Vol. II No. 494

LENGTH: 217  words


Following the non-serious approach adopted by the government on the issues of
national concern and importance the Leader of the Opposition in National
Assembly Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan Monday announced opposition's four point
protest agenda to record their protest. The sitting of the national Assembly on
Monday was opened under the speaker-ship of the Deputy Speaker National Assembly
Fazal Karim Kundi. Following a point of order, the leader of the Opposition
Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, expressing his serious reservations over the non
serious attitude of the government over the national issues flayed the role of
the treasury benches.

He announced a four point agenda to record the protest of the opposition against
the government's behaviour. In the first stage Khan informed the members of the
opposition would raise from their seats and would log their protest, in the
second part they would protest opposite to the dice of the speaker, in the third
stage the opposition would stage its protest outside the parliament, however in
the final stage the protest would be recorded in the streets. Over the
establishment of the new provinces, Leader of the Opposition said that his party
was not against the establishment of the new provinces but want to adopt the
constitutional approach for the cause.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            February 21, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

China tries to stamp out 'Jasmine Revolution'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 233 words


Chinese authorities staged a concerted show of force yesterday to squelch a
mysterious online call for a "Jasmine Revolution" apparently modelled after
pro-democracy demonstrations sweeping the Middle East.

Authorities detained activists, increased the number of police on the streets
and censored online calls to stage protests in Beijing, Shanghai and 11 other
major cities. Citizens were urged to shout "We want food, we want work, we want
housing, we want fairness" - a slogan that highlights common complaints among
ordinary Chinese.

Many activists said they didn't know who was behind the campaign and weren't
sure what to make of the call to protest, which was first posted on US-based,
Chinese-language advocacy website Boxun.com.

China's authoritarian government has appeared unnerved by recent protests in
Egypt, Tunisia, Bahrain, Yemen, Algeria and Libya. It has limited media reports
about them, stressing the instability caused by protests in Egypt, and
restricted internet searches to keep people uninformed.

Yesterday's call to protest did not seem to garner much support among citizens.
There were no reports of protests in cities where people were urged to gather.
Ahead of the planned protests, more than 100 activists in cities across China
were taken away by police, confined to their homes or were missing, said the
Hong Kong-based Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1476

LENGTH: 177  words


Different protests were staged by the local area people in favour of their
demands in Sukkur on Tuesday. According to details, the people of different
areas of Sukkur staged different protest demonstrations against the prolonged
power outages and drinking water shortage in their areas.

The people of the Bagri community staged a protest demonstration for the
recovery of an abducted woman of their community namely Sardaran. The reinstated
employees of the SSGC, who were reinstated through a Presidential Order, staged
a protest demonstration for the issuance of their posting orders.

A man namely Muhammad Iqbal staged a protest demonstration against the social
problems of the country. The activists of the Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM)
under the leadership of Ghulam Mustafa Phulpoto, Yasin Mahar and others staged a
protest demonstration for the release of their arrested leaders Akash Mallah and
Noor Muhammad Khaskheli. The activists of the JUI staged a protest demonstration
for the arrest of the killers of their leader Muhammad Zahid in Dera Ismail
Khan.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                              March 6, 2009 Friday

60% SUPPORT PROTESTS

BYLINE: Maxim Glikin, Natalia Kostenko

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 39

LENGTH: 399 words



HIGHLIGHT: LEVADA-CENTER: 60% RESPONDENTS SYMPATHIZE WITH PROTESTERS, 23% READY
TO JOIN STREET PROTESTS; The population sympathizes with protesters and sneers
at actions supposedly showing support of the government's anti-crisis efforts.


"What do you think of the people participating in rallies and manifestations
against the falling living standards and therefore trying to defend their
rights?" Levada-Center sociologists asked 1,600 respondents between February 20
and 23. Nineteen percent admitted feeling respect for the protesters and 41%
said they fully understood them. Seven percents admitted interest. Not a single
respondent said that street protests were an affront to be put an end to.
Twenty-six percent admitted indifference.

Answers to an analogous question concerning street actions in support of the
government were different: 31% declared support, 11% sneered, and 41% were
indifferent.

Protest expectations greatly increased over the last couple of months.
Possibility of protests was recognized by 18% respondents in November, 20% in
December, and 39% in February. Readiness to join protests was declared by 20% in
December and 23% nowadays.

Expectations of these protests are particularly considerable in cities with the
population between 100,000 and 500,000 or more but not in Moscow. Readiness to
protest was mostly admitted by residents of small townships (27-28%) where
sympathy with street protests was particularly strong (66%).

"That's potential energy rather than actual willingness to protest,"
Levada-Center Assistant Director Aleksei Grazhdankin said. "There were even more
sympathizers in the 1990s but actual participation in the protests then was
nothing to write home about. I'd rather say that results of the opinion poll
indicate the general mood of society and its attitude toward anti-crisis policy
of the government and splendiferous actions in its support."

Ilya Yashin of the Solidarity Movement, one of the most active protesters, said
the next wave of protests was expected in the regions (as opposed to the
capitals) in April and May. Protests would probably take place in the Far East,
Nizhny Novgorod, Yaroslavl, and Sochi. "It is absence of legitimate opposition
and genuine trade unions that makes street protests the only option," Yashin
said.

Vadim Soloviov of the Central Committee of the CPRF said a nationwide protest
action was planned for late March. Between 2 and 2.5 million people throughout
the country participated in the protests the Communists organized on January 31.
The CPRF counts on 7-8 million protesters in late March.

Source: Vedomosti, No 40, March 6, 2009, p. A2

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday

MMA OBSERVES PROTEST DAY AGAINST KILLING OF WASIF AZIZ

LENGTH: 139 words


RAWALPINDI: Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal observed protest day throughout Pakistan on
the call of MMA leader, Qazi Hussain Ahmad against the killing of the President
Muttahida Tulba Mahaz Karachi and Member Central Shoora Islami Jamiat-e-Tuliba,
Wasif Aziz in Karachi.

They lead protest demonstration in all the headquarters of four Provinces of
Pakistan including Rawalpindi and Azad and Kashmir.  Moreover, Islami
Jamiat-e-Talaba also continued protest process throughout Pakistan on the
directives of Nusrullah Khan and announced to observed three-day mourning.

Spokesman Jamaat-e-Islami told after the Jumma prayers dozens of mosques in
Pindi passed resolutions against the death of Wasif Aziz and MQM. After the
Jumma prayers they lead peaceful protest demonstration. During the protest
demonstration they demanded immediate ban on the MQM.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Domestic Politics; Civil Disruption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2007 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday

Azeri Islamists vow more protests against war in Lebanon

LENGTH: 111 words


Excerpt from report by Azerbaijani news agency Turan

Baku, 5 August: "We are keen on continuing anti-Israeli and anti-US protests in
Nardaran until the war in Lebanon ends," the chairman of the Islamic Party of
Azerbaijan, Haciaga Nuri, has told Turan.

The village of Nardaran has seen two mass anti-US and anti-Israeli protests so
far, Nuri said, adding that the protests would continue.

If Israel does not withdraw its troops from Lebanon by the weekend, new protests
will be staged next Thursday and Friday, Nuri said.

[Passage omitted: US and Israeli flags were set on fire in recent protests in
Nardaran]

Source: Turan news agency, Baku, in Russian 0902 gmt 5 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday

BRIEF: Turkey sends protest note to Syria

BYLINE: R. Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 155 words


Sept. 29--Turkey has sent a protest note to Syria, the Turkish newspaper
Yenisafak said on Saturday. According to the newspaper, the note of protest was
sent because the Syrian artillery shell landed in the province of Sanliurfa on
Friday.

One Syrian artillery shell landed in the province of Sanliurfa, Akchakale
district on Friday. No one was injured but several homes and buildings were
damaged.

Anti-government protests have continued in Syria for a year and half.

According to UN, the total number of victims of the conflict in Syria is nearing
20,000.

More than 230,000 have become refugees with around three million in need of
humanitarian assistance. The Syrian authorities say they oppose the well-armed
militants.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120929-1AZ-BRF-Turkey-sends-protest-note-to-Syria-0929-20120929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              216 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                               May 6, 2011 Friday

Religious parties announce to stage protest demos today

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 185

LENGTH: 127  words


Religious parties have announced protest rallies against drone attacks, US
atrocities and intervention in national politics, violation of human rights and
desecration of Holy Quran in foreign countries. In a separate statements issued
here on Thursday, leaders of religious parties said that they are left with no
choice except taking to streets for registering their protest against the
growing foreign intervention in Pakistan.

Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) will hold protest demonstrations throughout the province,
while the protest scope of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam- Fazl (JIU-F( has announced
protest demonstrations in Lyari and SITE area Karachi.

The JI will carry out rallies in Karachi, Sukkur, Hyderabad, Larkana,
Mirpurkhas, Jacobabad and other cities of the province.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1507

LENGTH: 242  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club by
the people in favour of their demands on Friday. According to details, the
members of Pakistan Small Unit Power Looms Association under the leadership of
Muhammad Aslam Ansari, Muhammad Arif Ansari,

Abdul Qayoom Ansari and others staged a protest demonstration against the
prolonged power outages. The employees of a private cold drink company of
Hyderabad under the leadership of Adeel Khan, Andaz Gul and others staged a
protest demonstration against the non provision of bonus to them by company.

The activists of Sindh Taraqqi Pasand Party (STPP) under the leadership of Asad
Sindhi, Shahabuddin and others staged a protest demonstration against the SDO
WAPDA Sakrand Zafar Solangi for lodging a case against a STPP leader. A woman
namely Rasheeda Qureshi, resident of Noorani Basti staged a protest
demonstration for the removal of occupation of her house. The people of Marri
community under the leadership of Haji Anwar Marri and others staged a protest
demonstration against the occupation of their residential plots.

The driver of Zubaida College Hyderabad along with his family members staged a
protest demonstration against the former Additional Director of Zubaida College
Hyderabad Ruqaya Bano Qadri. The people of different areas of Hyderabad staged
protest demonstrations against the HESCO authorities for continuing several
hours of unannounced load shedding.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 20, 2016 Wednesday 8:53 AM GMT

Expelled DUP councillor Ruth Patterson calls for 're-think' of loyalist flag
protest on St Patrick's Day

BYLINE: By Claire Williamson

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 590 words


Hardline Unionist Ruth Patterson has called for those planning a St Patrick's
Day flag protest to "re-think" their plans.

The former DUP councillor has been a strong supporter of the flag protests since
the council voted for its removal from Belfast City Hall in 2012.

In November she was expelled from the party over an interview in this newspaper
in which she lambasted the party leadership for parachuting junior minister Emma
Pengelly into the Assembly seat vacated by Jimmy Spratt.

She will now stand against her as an Independent in the South Belfast
constituency.

Her election campaign will be managed by Loyalist blogger Jamie Bryson.

In a blog post ahead of the planned flag protest due to take place on St
Patrick's Day she said there was no "strategic or political purpose" in the
protest.

But insists she supports the continuation of the weekly Saturday protests.

A group calling itself Loyal People's Protest plans to stage a Union flag vigil
outside Belfast City Hall for 12 hours.

Ms Patterson wrote: "From day one I have been an avid supporter of the Union
flag protests and have strongly defended the right to peaceful and lawful
protest.

"I do believe that protest is a form of drawing attention to the issue about
which you protest, but ultimately grievances can only be properly addressed and
changes made via the democratic political process.

"With that in mind I would encourage the organisers of the St Patrick's day
protest to rethink their plans and divert their energy into seeking to make a
change via the democratic process."

Addressing the weekly Union flag protest, she said while she supports them to
continue, she wants those taking part to become more involved in the political
process.

She said: "The Union flag protest has been a weekly Saturday event since
December 2012. I think the time has come for those with such a clear passion for
their cause to divert that energy into constructive and positive political
activism.

"I do not think there is a strategic or political purpose in organising a
protest on St Patrick's day. Given Unionism regularly articulates opposition to
pop-up Nationalist protests, which are designed to make expressions of Unionist
culture contentious, I think it would do a great disservice to Unionism in
general if our community were to be portrayed as purposefully seeking to be
offended.

"I pay tribute to the commitment and dedication of those who have sacrificed
much of their time in order to protest regularly to raise the inequalities
currently being inflicted upon the Unionist community.

"And it is because of this that I believe that I - and indeed all the Unionist
parties - owe it to these people to provide a political vision and avenue to air
these grievances.

"I suspect big house Unionism would be more than happy to allow these people to
protest forever and a day and simply dismiss or ignore them.

"I believe we are duty bound to offer an alternative, to recognise that protest
has highlighted the issue but now to channel that commitment and energy into the
democratic process."

Speaking to the Belfast Telegraph she added: "I am very happy for Saturday
protests to keep going.

"The individuals involved have become very good friends with myself. I support
their right to peacefully and lawfully protest. But I do believe that any
protest strategy must ultimately provide a vision to offer a path from protest
to political change.

"I would like to see them more involved in the democratic process and political
process and to engage with politicians in order to make that change."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                              July 10, 2015 Friday

Madhes front announces protest programmes

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, July 10 -- The dissenting United Democratic Madhesi Front has
announced programmes of protest on Friday.

The Sanghiya Samajbadi Forun Nepal, Nepal Sadbhavana Party, Tarai Madhes
Loktrantrik Party and Tarai Madhes Sadbhavana Party have been expressing their
dissent regarding the 16-point agreement forged between the major four political
parties.

The protest programmes, jointly made public by the Madhesi front, include
putting black flags in public areas and organising protest rallies in Kathmandu
and other major cities of the country.

As per their programmes, the Madhesi front will place black flags in public
places at Kathmandu on July 12 and organise a protest rally on July 14.

Likewise, the front is scheduled to hold protests and corner-meets at districts
headquarters on July 17. The protest programmes also include protest meets on
July 21-25 at Biratnagar, janakpur, Birgunj and Bhairahawa.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             July 3, 2014 Thursday

One dead as pro-Morsi protests dispersed across Cairo, Giza and Alexandria

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 296 words


Security forces forcibly dispersed a number of protests around the country on 3
July 2014
(AFP File Photo)

Security forces forcibly dispersed a number of protests around the country on
Thursday as pro-Brotherhood protesters organised marches to commemorate the
first anniversary of Mohamed Morsi's ouster.

The Anti-Coup Alliance claims that three protesters were shot dead in Haram when
security forces dispersed protests. State-run Al-Ahram reported that one was
killed and others were injured during the dispersal.

Al-Ahram also reported that a pro-Morsi protest had been dispersed in
Alexandria.

The Anti-Coup Alliance also reported a protest dispersal in Ain Shams.

Protests were staged in Matareya, with state-run MENA news agency adding that
security forces were on their way to Gameat El-Dowal in Giza's Mohandeseen to
disperse a pro-Brotherhood protest.

Aswat Masriya reported that protests in Mohandeseen and Matareya were also
forcibly dispersed with tear gas. There was no mention of arrests or injuries.

Earlier Thursday, Ministry of Interior arrested 34 people for allegedly
organising protests, inciting violence and banditry ahead of planned
demonstrations for the first anniversary of Mohamed Morsi's ouster.

According to a statement released by the ministry Thursday, 34 alleged Muslim
Brotherhood members have been arrested in across Egypt. Arrests occurred in
Minya, Beni Suef, Suez Beheira and Fayoum.

Five were arrested in Minya for blocking traffic and disrupting traffic while
chanting slogans against the police and military. They were also throwing rocks
and shooting fireworks according to the Thursday statement.

Twelve were arrested for possession of publications inciting violence against
the police and military.

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2014 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday

Cabinet approves new protest law

BYLINE: Fady Ashraf

LENGTH: 658 words


Supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood and Mohamed Morsi demonstrate in Maadi on
the outskirts of Cairo, August 23, 2013 (AFP/File, Gianluigi Guercia)

The cabinet approved in its Thursday meeting a new law to organise the right to
hold meetings, non-political parades and political protests, state-owned
Al-Ahram reported.

The law, commonly known as the Protest Law and consisting of 21 articles, was
presented by Minister of Justice Adel Abdel Hamid to the cabinet.

The law states that citizens have the right to organise and join meetings,
parades and demonstrations under certain conditions. The law defined parades as
demonstrations with non-political goals.

The law bans using places of worship as gathering points for protests, and
demonstrators are also banned from possessing weapons, ammunition, fireworks and
face-covering masks.

To organise a protest, organisers should request permission from the police
station responsible for the intended site of protest 24 hours in advance. Such
permission should include the location and the pathway of the protest, start and
end time, the issue which the protest is concerned with, its demands and the
names of the organisers of the protest.

The law obliges the Minister of Interior to address the authorities concerned
with the demands of the protest to try to find solutions.

The ninth article in the law forbids sit-ins, sleeping over at the location of
the protest, road blocking or negatively affecting the life of other citizens,
including "obstructing their interests" or endangerment.

The law obliges security forces to protect protests, unless in the case of
illegal activity, when security forces "in uniform" should disperse the protest.
The law bans the use of any force besides water hoses, teargas and sticks.

Security forces can use further force if they are in a position of self-defence,
according to the law.

According to the new law, governors in each governorate should decide a "buffer
zone" of 50 to 100 metres between the protests and presidential headquarters,
legislative entities, governmental entities, judicial entities, foreign missions
and embassies, police stations and archaeological sites. Demonstrators are
banned from entry to these places to sit-in or set platforms.

The violation of this law would be punished by imprisonment and/or fines between
EGP 50,000 and 100,000, while holding a protest without permission would be
fined by EGP 1,000 to 5,000. In addition, any citizen who receives money or
benefits to hold illegal protests will be punished by imprisonment and a fine
between 100,000 and 300,000 EGP.

The law has stirred mixed reactions among political groups.

Al Tayar Al-Sha'aby spokesman Emad Hamdy said that they reject the law, calling
it "inappropriate" to ban the right to sit-ins.

Prominent Human Rights lawyer Gamal Eid denounced the law, calling it a
"continuation of the [former president Hosni] Mubarak regime's practices." The
only difference, Eid said, is that the public opinion welcomes such practices
since they are directed against the Muslim Brotherhood.

Eid added that this law is a new episode in a series of "laws with bad
reputations" issued by the Minister of Justice, and would not stop people from
demanding their rights.

"Its issuance was not a surprise, because Abdel Hamid and the current authority
do not relate to the revolution whatsoever," he said.

Eid added that there would be legal appeals against the law, "but the most
important thing is movement on the ground, which transforms the law into wasted
ink on paper."

Prominent National Salvation Front figure Wahid Abdel Meguid said that the front
had not formed an opinion nor discussed the law yet.

The Tamarod (Rebellion) campaign was not available to comment.

The law is expected to stir a wide range of reactions over the course of the
next days.

Related posts:

Al-Beltagy's son arrested

I knew the regime would collapse: interior minister

General Prosecution refers Morsi to Criminal Court

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                           September 16, 2013 Monday

13 teachers face investigation for participating in Gezi protests

LENGTH: 191  words


Local education authorities in the southern province of Adana have launched
administrative investigations into 13 teachers for participating in
anti-government protests in June, the Ihlas news agency reported on Monday.

Inspectors from the Adana Provincial Education Directorate launched
investigations into Kamuran Karaca, Orhan Alici, Ahmet Karagoz, Esra Aslan
Kosele, Yalcin Alcicek, Abdullah Yalcin, Halil Kara, Mehmet Akarsubasi, Kenan
Kalkan, Mehmet Rustu Satir, Munir Korkmaz, Ayhan Topal and Birol Satar for
attending protests in Adana between June 4 and 19, after protests over the
planned demolition of Gezi Park in Istanbul had turned into nationwide
anti-government protests.

The inspectors reportedly requested defense statements from the teachers after
showing them photographs of them taken during the protests. The teachers are
reportedly being accused of leading the protests.

Alici, a teacher working for 36 years, said he was exercising his democratic
rights while attending the protests, claiming that the investigation is an act
of "intimidation." "They are trying to punish us for using our constitutional
rights," Alici said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday

ANC will not join anti-Obama protests

BYLINE: WARREN MABONA

LENGTH: 336 words


THE ANC yesterday distanced itself from any plans to protest against the visit
by US President Barack Obama to South Africa.

ANC spokesperson Jackson Mthembu told The New Age that the governing party would
not participate in the protests. He said the organisation would also not dictate
on what people should do - or should not do - in relation to the planned
protests.

"The ANC is a governing party and he (Obama) is visiting our country. It will
not be in order for us to join the protests and we are not commenting on them (
protests)," Mthembu said.

Asked if the ANC was not concerned about the potential outbreak of violence in
the country posed by the planned protests, Mthembu said: "We don't comment on
whether there might be violence or not in the protests. The police are there to
do their work and you can ask the organisers of those protests if there will be
any violence."

Obama is expected to jet into the country on Friday for a two-day official
visit.

Some political parties, trade unions, South African Communist Party (SACP) and
civil society organisations last week condemned Obama's upcoming visit over the
foreign policy of the US government. Most of the concerned groups singled out
the deployment of US troops to warring countries as the main reason for their
opposition to his visit.

The Congress of SA Trade Unions (Cosatu) also threw its weight behind the
planned protests, calling on various groups to take part in the mass action.

International relations secretary for Cosatu Bongani Masuku said the federation
cited as main reasons for the protests the US's support of Israel and its
policies that it said perpetuated unequal and exploitative trade relations and
underdevelopment in Africa.

Cosatu spokesperson Patrick Craven yesterday said the federation was going ahead
with the protest but insisted that the protests would be devoid of any violence.

"We are opposed to violence. And we certainly hope our protest will be carried
out peacefully," Craven said.

warrenm@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

JKLF calls for protests on Friday

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Feb. 22 -- JKLF today called for an hour long protest demonstration
after Friday prayers on March 1 against the hanging of Mohammad Afzal Guru and
refusal of government of India to hand over his body to his family.

In a statement the party's acting chairman Bashir Ahmad Bhat, said the JKLF will
continue calling for such protests in support of the demand for handing over of
mortal remains of

Afzal Guru and Mohammad Maqbool Butt.

"People of Jammu Kashmir will continue their protest against the illegal hanging
of our oppressed brother Mohammad Afzal Guru. Our protest against the tyrant
approach of Indian government and its refusal in handing over the bodies of
Mohammad Maqbool Butt and Mohammad Afzal Guru will also continue," he said.

Appealing people to protest on Friday, he added that "we will together protest
for one hour after the Friday prayers for the purpose. Our protest will
continues constantly but on Friday we will with one voice lodge our protest in
this regard."

Thanking people of Kashmir especially of those areas which were not under curfew
for observing complete shut down today, Bhat said this shows the "love and
sympathy of the people of Jammu Kashmir with their martyrs and pro freedom
people."

JKLF leader criticized the pro-India politicians who are issuing statements in
Guru's issue and trying to advise pro freedom leaders and parties in this
regard. "These politicians who enjoy assembly membership and power by acting as
puppets of India in Jammu Kashmir have no right to preach morality. These people
are actually trying to cover up their sins and crimes. These people are directly
involved in the judicial murder of our youth especially Mohammad Afzal Guru," he
said.

Without naming senior National Conference (NC) Dr Mustafa Kamal, Bhat said he
has developed a habit to blame the pro freedom camp on Afzal issue. "How come
this man whose elder brother signed the black warrant of Mohammad Maqbool Butt
and whose nephew for the lust of power facilitated the hanging of Mohammad Afzal
Guru talks morality? These people must know that if British premier can make an
apology to Indians after hundreds of years, their master India will also have to
leave Jammu and Kashmir and pay for the crimes and sins committed against
Kashmiris. These power thirsty politicians must know that they will also have to
answer for their crimes," he added.

JKLF leader also condemned the spree of arrests and continued arrest of JKLF
leader Showkat Ahmad Bakhshi and said forces have unleashed reign of terror
throughout the valley. Police and forces last night raided the JKLF office at
Pulwana yet again and ransacked it. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Kashmir Times. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

STRIKES

BYLINE: Daria Nikolayeva

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 566

LENGTH: 177 words



HIGHLIGHT: LABOR PROTESTS MIGHT BECOME A PHENOMENON NOT TO BE IGNORED;
Developmnt of civil society in Russia is accompanied by labor protests.


"The number of labor conflicts is growing. The first quarter of 2012 became the
most protest-intensive in five years," reported the Center of Social and Labor
Rights. Experts logged 11 protests in January and February 200, 27 in 2009, 22
in 2010, 53 in 2011, and 61 in 2012. The number of stop-actions (complete or
partial suspense of work) increased from 5 in the first quarter of 2008 to 23 in
early 2012.

Pyotr Bizyukov of the Center of Social and Labor Rights said, "At this rate, we
may reasonably expect up to 40-45 protests per month by the middle of the year.
There is every reason to expect summer 2012 to be a period of active protests."

Experts attribute the growing number of labor conflicts to development of civil
society in Russia. "Tension at this point is much more considerable than it was
a year ago. As things stand, social and political protests are autonomous from
labor protests but that may change in a hurry," said Sergei Smirnov of the
Higher School of Economics' Institute of Social Politics.

Source: Kommersant, No 70, April 19, 2012, p. 6

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Pakistan: PML-N to hold nationwide protests against loadshedding

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, March 28 -- The PML-N has announced its protest schedule against
loadshedding and the increase in electricity bills.

Protests will be held in Karachi, Lahore, Quetta and Peshawar on March 31,
according to the party's secretary general Iqbal Zafar Jhagra.

On April 2, protests will be held in Abbottabad, Sialkot, Sahiwal and Hyderabad.

Protests will be held in Multan, Kasur, Sheikhapura and D.I.Khan on April 3.

On April 4, protests will be held in Rawalpindi, Bahawalpur, Karak and Sargodha.
While in D.G.Khan, Gujrat and Okara protests will be held on April 5.

Earlier Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif said that the federal government
was treating Punjab like a step-mother.

Sharif stressed that his party would support traders in their protests as
loadshedding was leading people losing their jobs.

Meanwhile protests continued in Lahore and Faisalabad on Monday. In Lahore one
person was killed by a guard at a petrol station after protestors had set fire
to it Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday

North protests Assad while Syrian workers in south march for regime

BYLINE: Antoine Amrieh And Mohammed Zaatari

LENGTH: 379 words


Two protests were held as residents took to the streets of the northern city of
Tripoli to protest against the Syrian regime, while Syrian workers marched in
support of the President Bashar Assad in the south.

TRIPOLI/ZAHRANI, Lebanon: Two protests were held Friday as residents took to the
streets of the northern city of Tripoli to protest against the Syrian regime,
while Syrian workers marched in support of the Syrian President Bashar Assad in
the south.

In what has become a weekly event, residents of the Qibbeh neighborhood of
Tripoli marched following Friday prayers in support of the uprising in Syria
against President Bashar Assad.

For the first time, the residents also organized a protest in front of the
International Red Cross office in the area near the Rashid Karami Fairgrounds.

Worshippers from Hamza Mosque walked through the streets of Qibbeh, stopping at
at Ibn Sina Square, where they raised banners with messages of support for the
Syrian popular uprising and condemned the regime's oppression of the "peaceful
demonstrators in various Syrian cities and towns."

The protesters also held photographs of several victims who were killed in the
uprising and chanted in support of the opposition Syrian National Council.

Delivering Friday's sermon at Hamza Mosque, Sheikh Zakaria Masri warned the
Lebanese, especially residents of Tripoli, of "the strife Hezbollah seeks to
spread" by pitting supporters of former Prime Minister Saad Hariri against those
of Prime Minister Najib Mikati in order to control both groups.

"The supporters of Mikati should be the supporters of Hariri especially as
[Mikati] is trying to fund the Special Tribunal for Lebanon," Masri said.

Meanwhile, around 300 Syrian workers in an agricultural area in Zahrani gathered
after Friday noon prayers and marched in support of the Syrian regime.

The demonstrators held posters of Syrian President Bashar Assad and his late
father Hafez, and chanted slogans in support of Assad, Speaker Nabih Berri and
Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hasan Nasrallah.

The demonstrators pledged that they would fulfill their duty and return to Syria
if they were asked to defend it.

Members of the Lebanese Army mobilized on the road where the demonstrators
marched and some army personnel were seen holding truncheons.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2011 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

Nurses vow to continue protests, condemn traders

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: MULTAN


ULTAN, Nov. 25 -- Nurses continue to hold protests across Punjab today (Friday)
in support of their demands for pay raise and other incentives.

Protests were witnessed in Multan, Lahore, Gujranwala, Jhang, Sargodha and Dera
Ghazi Khan.

The protesters also lashed out at unruly Lahore's traders for attacking nures.

In Multa, nurses have been staging protests for the last 10 days. But no step
has been made to address their concerns. Administration called in police outside
Nishtar Hospital to prevent nurses from taking out the protest. One nurse fell
unconscious during the protest.

Office bearers of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) also joined the nurses in
their protests.

They expressed the resolve to continue protests unless their demands were
accepted.

In Gujranwala, nurses expressed solidarity with their fellow nurses, who were
tortured by traders in Lahore. They wore black ribbons and boycotted wards
services. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: Libyans In Sacramento Protest Libyan Government

BYLINE: Rick Boone, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


Feb. 19--SACRAMENTO -- The protests against the Egyptian government were so
successful protestors in other countries are trying the same.

Libyan citizens are holding up signs, flags, and protesting on the streets of
their country and right here in Sacramento.   They want Moammar Khadafi taken
down.  They say after 41-years, his reign of terror must stop.

"We want our country back, we want freedom."  Salah Shawesh was born in Libya
but now lives in Sacramento with his wife and family.  He says it's a new world
for Arab nations, the people are silent no more.  "Moammar Khadafi is a killer,
he's been in power forty-one years that's longer than any other dictator, and he
must go."

Salah was joined by several hundred Libyan citizens outside Arden Fair Mall
Saturday for a protest against Khadafi.  His protest is one many anti-regime and
dictator protest have been popping up since the brutal fights and protest in
Egypt.  It led to the president deciding to resign his office.  Now Libyan
Americans want the same results for their home land.

The weekend protest is expected to be one of many being held in the valley in
the coming weeks.

To see more of KTXL-TV, go to http://www.fox40.com/. Copyright (c) 2011,
KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110219-5KT-BRF-Libyans-In-Sacramento-Protest
-Libyan-Government-0219-20110219

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                              233 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 18, 2011 Friday

Middle East protests - live updates

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 474 words

ABSTRACT

Latest from the Middle East as governments brace for a day of protest in
Bahrain, Egypt, Libya, Yemen and elsewhere

FULL TEXT

8.39am: Good morning. Governments around the Middle East are bracing themselves
for protests and violence today as the unrest in the region continues to spread.

Bahrain

In Bahrain this morning many thousands of mourners called for the downfall of
the monarchy as they began burying the dead after an assault on protesters at
Manama's Pearl roundabout on Thursday night which left five dead. Today's calls
for the king to go were seen as an escalation of demonstrators' demands; the
uprising began with calls for a weakening of the Sunni monarchy's hold on top
government posts and measures to address discrimination against the Shia
majority. Two funerals have taken place, with one more to go this morning -
after which protesters plan to march to Pearl roundabout, something that may
cause a confrontation with police and security
forces.http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/feb/18/bahrain-mourners-call-downnfa
ll-monarchy

Libya

In Libya, soldiers were deployed on to the streets of Benghazi, after thousands
took to the streets overnight to protest about security forces killing an
estimated 24 demonstrators. The city was quiet this morning, but a witness
reported shooting last night and the BBC said 10 people had been killed.
Funerals are expected today that could act as a catalyst for further protests.
Pro-government supporters were also out on the streets this morning. Crucially,
there was little sign of anti-government protest in Tripoli, the capital. Ian
Black has more on yesterday's protests here.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/feb/17/libya-day-of-rage-unrest

Egypt

Thousands of Egyptians gathered for prayers this morning and a planned victory
march through Cairo's Tahrir Square, the site of the protests that led to the
fall of the president, Hosni Mubarak, a week ago today. The demonstrations will
also act as a warning to the army - which took power after Mubarak stepped down
- that protesters want to take a more active role in the country's transition to
democracy.

Yemen

New protests are also expected today in Sana'a, Yemen's capital. Yesterday saw a
sixth day of clashes between pro-democracy protesters and government loyalists
in the country. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/gallery/2011/feb/17/yemen-
protests-in-pictures

Iraq

About 1,000 protesters in Basra, the southern Iraqi city, are demonstrating to
demand better services from the government, jobs and improved pensions. They
warned that today's protest would be peaceful, but others in the future might
not be. At least five people have been killed at protests throughout the country
this week.

Our correspondents throughout the region and Middle East experts and reporters
in London will be keeping you updated throughout the day.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

Protests vs education

BYLINE: Poppy Louw

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 341 words


'People who disrupt children's access to schooling should be prosecuted'
 PEOPLE who disrupt children's access to education during protests should be
arrested and prosecuted, a new report says.


 Launched by the SA Human Rights Commission yesterday, the report explores the
effect of protests on the right to basic education.
  Researchers found that there had been severe incidents of school disruptions
during protests.
 But, they said, there was no reported action taken against people who had
deliberately interfered with the right to basic education.
 HRC international liaison officer Judith Cohen said the lack of prosecution
sent a negative message that there were no consequences for acts of criminality
during protests.
 The report was released four months after violent protests in Vuwani, Limpopo,
in which 24 schools were torched or vandalised and more than 50 closed.
 The report says government's response to incidents that affect schools is too
slow and inadequate.
 There is no uniform policy or approach to deal with such incidents, it said.
 In its submission to the HRC the police said its public order policing units -
which manage protests - were lacking in human resources.
 There are 28 units with just more than 4200 members to manage and ensure public
order at about 13000 protests a year.
 Through its monitoring of protests in the past five years nationwide, the HRC
found that the protests had little to do with basic education.
 For three months in 2014 residents of the John Taolo Gaetsewe district in
Northern Cape prevented 16000 children from attending school during protests.
  They were demanding that roads linking their villages be tarred.
 National Association of School Governing Bodies general secretary Matakanye
Matakanya said the mindset of communities needed to be changed so that they
would see the value of education and would not target schools during protests.
 "If we can accomplish this, we could one day see parents encouraging their
children to go to school, even though there are protests in their community."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2016 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                           February 16, 2016 Tuesday

TNGEA steps up protest as strike enters sixth day

LENGTH: 273  words

DATELINE: MADURAI


MADURAI, Feb. 16 -- More than 1,000 government employees from various unions
affiliated to Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association (TNGEA), staged a
protest near the premises of the Collector's office on Monday in a show of
strength as their State-wide indefinite strike entered the sixth day.


 M. Gnanathambi, State Treasurer of TNGEA, said that from Monday, Tamil Nadu
Primary Teachers' Association had joined the protest and more associations were
expected to join the protest in the coming days.
 He denied rumours about some of the associations withdrawing from the protest.
"A particular association of Anganwadi workers with affiliation to the ruling
party was asked by TNGEA to withdraw from the protest. All other associations
are still involved in the strike. Other Anganwadi association members are
planning to participate in protests along with their families from tomorrow," he
said.
 TNGEA office bearers said that, from Tuesday, non-teaching staff associations
of government aided colleges were also joining the protest. They said the
ministerial staff associations in Police Department may also join the protest in
coming days.
 Hopeful
 The protesters said that they are hopeful of a favourable announcement from the
Tamil Nadu government during the release of interim budget on Tuesday.
 TNGEA has begun the indefinite strike demanding the fulfilment of their
20-point charter of demands, which include the removal of new pension scheme,
regularising the contract employees in various departments and putting an end to
outsourcing of government jobs and recruitment of employees on contractual and
consolidated pay basis.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

'The protest capital of the world'

BYLINE: RUSSEL MOLEFE

LENGTH: 401 words


DAMAGE done to infrastructure as a result of violent service delivery protests,
estimated to be more than R10bn  a year, impacts negatively on the economy,
analysts have warned.

Researchers, economists and the police, among others, point out that the 1907
violent protests recorded in the past financial year were a major cause of
concern because of the destruction to infrastructure and the disruption to
services and policing.

Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko revealed in Parliament recently, that a total
of 13575 protests occurred in the past year alone.

Violent protests went up from 1887 in the 2012/13 financial year to 1907 in the
past year.

Economist Chris Hart said that the impact of the violent protests was alarming.

"The consequences are in the short, medium and long term. In the short term, the
damage is already done and how do we fix that," Hart asked.

Violent protests that erupted in Gauteng in February, resulted in more than R65m
in infrastructure damage.

Infrastructure and property worth R40m was damaged in Mpumalanga in 2010.

Hart said smaller municipalities, in terms of their budget, would feel the most
negative economic impact.

This would be exacerbated by the lack of investment in those areas, he said.

A research conducted by the University of Johannesburg painted a disturbing
picture of how the increasing number of protests have earned the country the
title, "the protest capital of the world".

Prof Peter Alexander, who led the research into community protests, also agreed
that further violent protests would continue to undermine economic expansion. He
said in some instances, the protests have become part of a broader rebellion of
the poor.

"I have not found any other country where there is a similar level of ongoing
urban unrest. South Africa can reasonably be described as the 'protest capital
of the world'," he said.

National police spokesperson Lt-Gen Solomon Makgale said violent protests have
stretched the resources of the police as they have to be diverted from
day-to-day crime prevention policing.

"It is the violence and acts of criminality by elements piggybacking on the
legitimate demands of the people that often create unnecessary confrontations
between the police and protesters," Makgale said. The ANC said that the violent
protests across the country undermined the gains of the democracy and undermined
its successes.

russelm@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Thousands demonstrate against Protest Law

BYLINE: Mostafa Salem

LENGTH: 482 words


//

Egyptian Activists and members of the 6th of April movement shout slogans
against the Egyptian Military on November 27, 2013, in Cairo.
(AFP PHOTO/GIANLUIGI GUERCIA)

Thousands protested in downtown Cairo Wednesday in defiance of the recently
issued Protest Law and in response to the dispersal of the No Military Trials
demonstration Tuesday.

The protest started in Talaat Harb Square at 5pm and marched through downtown.
At the time of print, the march was heading towards the Shura Council building
where Tuesday's clashes occurred.

A number of revolutionary forces were present, including 6 April, the
Revolutionary Socialists, Revolutionary Front and a number of independent
groups.

"We will never agree on the Protest Law and will continue protesting until it's
gone," said Basma El Hosseiny, a founding member of the Revolutionary Front. "We
the people don't accept it."

Revolutionary Front members said they had marched downtown to intentionally
violate the Protest Law, which says that the locations of protests must be
declared in advance.

The Revolutionary Front called for the protest in response to the forcible
arrests and detention of several activists after the forcible dispersal of
yesterday's protest in front of the Shura Council.

The front's Wednesday protest demanded the release of these detainees, the
abolishment of the Protest Law, and a ban on military trials in the
constitution.

Meanwhile, the Ministry of Interior announced that a request was made for the
Wednesday march by a party the ministry refused to identify. The law stipulates
that a three day notice to the Ministry of Interior is required prior to any
protest, and the notice will be reduced two 24 hours if the protest concerns
elections. Renowned human rights advocate Hossam Bahgat issued a statement
denying that any party had requested a permit.

The released protesters from Tuesday's demonstration also announced that they
had filed three complaints against the ministry of Interior

Amr Adel, one of the detainees, said that, "the three complaints are against
[the detainees'] kidnapping and being dumped on the desert road, violence and
beatings during the arrest and the third is a complaint against the sexual
harassment experienced by the detained women."

Tuesday's violent dispersal of a peaceful protest generated local and
international criticism of the current government. The protest marked the first
to take place without the required permit demanded by the law.

The Protest Law was ratified by interim President Adly Mansour earlier this week
after its draft that was suggested by the Ministry of Justice had stirred
controversy in the political sphere.

Related posts:

NoMilTrials protest dispersed; prominent activists detained

Opposition to draft Protest Law mounts

Government wavers on Protest Law

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Daily NewsEgypt 2013Provided by
Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                            November 25, 2013 Monday

Activists to lodge 1st demo request under Egypt's new protest law

LENGTH: 417 words


Activists say that the planned protest - to be held, if approved, in Cairo's
Tahrir Square - would target the new law itself CAIRO   Egyptian activists are
planning to submit the first formal petition to stage a demonstration in Cairo
under the nation's new protest law, which came into effect on Monday. Activists
say that the planned protest - to be held, if approved, in Cairo's Tahrir Square
- would target the new law itself. "We will submit a notification to stage a
protest against the protest law itself," Mohamed Adel, a founder of the April 6
protest movement, said in a statement.

The move comes one day after interim President Adly Mansour approved the
controversial law, which the government says is needed to restore public order
amid Egypt's deteriorating security situation. The law makes it necessary for
protest organizers to obtain Interior Ministry approval the three days prior to
any planned protest. Violators will be fined and in some cases imprisoned. The
new law has sent shockwaves across Egypt's political scene, with some of parties
warning that it would curb civil liberties and restore the Egyptian government's
traditional "police mentality." In a statement, Adel declared his intention to
go to a police station in downtown Cairo on Monday to submit a petition to stage
a protest on December 1. Applicants must pay a fee of 32 Egyptian pounds
(roughly $4) to submit a petition at a police station. Adel said he would pay
the fee, adding that the planned protest would carry the sarcastic slogan "Eat
Popcorn" - a phrase, usually said in ridicule, that has become popular among
local youths after appearing in a television commercial. "We're serious about
staging the protest," Adel told Anadolu Agency. "But we're adopting this
satirical slogan to poke fun at the notion of submitting a petition to stage
protests." He added: "This law trims the right to protest." He said
demonstrators would demand the prosecution of the interior minister and the
dismissal of the interim prime minister and Defense Minister Abdel-Fattah
al-Sisi due to what he described as their failure to restore public security
following the army's July 3 ouster of elected president Mohamed Morsi. Adel
added that demonstrators would set out towards Tahrir Square from several
starting points, including eastern Cairo's iconic Rabaa al-Adawiya Square. By
Hussein Qabani englishnews@aa.com.tr

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Copyright Andolu AjansiProvided by
Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2013 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              239 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                              Natal Metro Edition

Walk marks protest centenary

BYLINE: SIPHILISELWE MAKHANYA

SECTION: HUMAN INTEREST

LENGTH: 248  words


Walk marks protest centenary

MORE than 3 000 people are expected to take part in a re-enactment at the end of
the month of anti-government protests 100 years ago.

The Volksrust commemorative walk on November 30 will mark the anniversaries of
several significant protests. They include the 1913 pass law defiance campaign
led by Charlotte Maxeke in the Free State and a protest the same year led by
Kasturba Gandhi, wife of Mahatma Gandhi, against a court ruling that nullified
Hindu and Muslim marriages.

The walk will also commemorate resistance to restrictive travel laws and to a £3
tax imposed on Indians who refused to sign up for fresh periods of indentured
service.

Ela Gandhi, granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi, said the walk would celebrate the
role of women in the peaceful protests of that era.

One of them was Valliama Mudliar, who led one of the key protests of that year,
mobilising coal miners to join a protest over taxes and the marriage issue.

"Valliama was 16 at the time - she was one of the youngest people to participate
and she was instrumental in organising the workers," said Gandhi.

"At a young age, she displayed so much courage and resilience.

The walk is being organised by, among others, the Gandhi Development Trust and
the Department of Correctional Services.

Those interested in participating in the walk may e-mail sm@gdt.org.za with
their contact details and the number of people they will be attending with by
November 26.

RESISTANCE: Ela Gandhi

Picture: JACKIE CLAUSEN

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          September 15, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan: JI to hold protest rally against blasphemous movie

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Sept. 15 -- To condemn the blasphemous movie, made in the United
States, Jamaat e Islami Karachi has announced to hold a protest rally and
demonstration on Friday (today).

In this regard a protest rally would be taken out at 2:00 pm from Jamia Masjid
Alfalah North Nazimabad to Matric board office, where JI Pakistan Amir Munawar
Hassan would address the protest demonstration.

Meanwhile, in a statement, JI Karachi Amir Muhammad Hussain Mehnati appealed
masses to join the protest demonstration so as to record their protest.

Condemning the hatred and sentiments provoking measure, Mehnati has said that
those powers blame Muslims for extremism and terrorism, were sowing extremism
through such type of measures. He said that the US and a part of West were
continuously revealing the anti Islamic policies.

He said that any religion of the world doesn't allow to insult of any
personality particularly a prophet. He further said that those attempt to insult
the prophet (PBUH) were provoking inter-religion harmony.

He further said that sentiments of Muslims had been provoking under a designed
conspiracy to destabilize inter faith peace and harmony. He added that a Muslim
can never tolerate any attempt to abuse the personality or image of the holy
prophet (PBUH). He further said that through such type of nefarious attempts,
feelings of about one billion Muslims were crushed Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         The Middle East Reporter (MER)

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday

JORDAN-PROTESTS

LENGTH: 414  words


JORDAN-PROTESTS

Anti-government Protests in Jordan Send 'Firm' Messages to the Head of Authority


Jordan witnessed "heated" anti-government protests on Friday during which
demonstrators chanted slogans 'firmly' calling on the head of the Jordanian
authority King Abdullah II to speed up reforms, the Beirut daily AN NAHAR
reported Saturday.

The protests kicked off in the capital Amman and other provinces. Some
demonstrators were attacked by what the daily called "thugs" urging the security
forces to intervene using teargas to control the situation. However, it failed
to prevent the "thugs" from hurling stones at protestors, the daily said.  In
Irbid, 80 kilometers north of the capital, police used teargas to end clashes
between pro-reform demonstrators and government loyalists, witnesses said.
Protesters were demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Marouf Bakhit's
government, accusing it of failing to curb corruption and introduce political
reforms. More than 2,000 people demonstrated outside the Grand Husseini Mosque
in central Amman under the slogan "Political Reform Our Path for Eradication of
Corruption." They chanted, "No to protecting the corruption of the government,"
on the march from Al-Hussein mosque in central Amman to the town hall, one
kilometer (less than a mile) away. The demonstrators carried banners reading:
"Political reform is the path to wiping out corruption... Corruption is the
cause of poverty and unemployment."

The demonstration was led by former Prime Minister Ahmed Obeidat, who chairs the
opposition National Front for Reform (NFR), and prominent members of the Muslim
Brotherhood movement and its political arm, the Islamic Action Front (IAF).
Obeidat told AFP the protesters demanded "an end to corruption in all its forms:
political, administrative, legislative and financial." It was the first public
action by the NFR, which is a partnership formed in May by the Muslim
Brotherhood, leftist parties, trade union leaders and independent figures.
Constitutional amendments recently adopted by parliament and approved by King
Abdullah II 'did not live up to the aspirations of the people,' Obeidat said,
addressing the protesters. "We want reforms that ensure fairness of the election
process and prevent all forms of interventions," he added, referring to charges
that the security authorities in the country sought to obstruct reform.  Similar
demonstrations were reported in the cities of Karka, Tafileh, Maan, Jerash and
Salt.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 597


              Copyright 2011 Press Services & Documentation Bureau
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 114

LENGTH: 375  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.  According to details, the
members of the Pakistan WAPDA Hydroelectric Central Labour Union under the
leadership of Abdul Latif Nizamani and others staged a protest demonstration
against the proposed privatization of WAPDA and its units. The women residents
of Husri staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of an abducted girl.

The people of the Khoso Community, residents of Tharparkar under the leadership
of Zulekhan Khoso and others staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of
their community men Jalal Khoso. A woman along with her children, residents of
Noonari Bast staged a protest demonstration against the torture of her husband
and in-laws. A social worker Comrade Anwar Mallah, resident of district Dadu
staged protest demonstration against the open sale of drugs in his area. The
residents of village Molidino Shoro Qasimabad under the leadership of Manthar
Shoro and others staged a protest demonstration against the Arif Builders. The
members of the Peoples Labour Bureau Sindh University Jamshoro Chapter under the
leadership of Ghulam Hussain Joyo others staged a protest demonstration for the
acceptance of their demands.

The members of the Save Forest Action Committee Khipro under the leadership of
Hussain Mari, Daim Ali others staged a protest demonstration in favor of their
demands. The members of the Pukar Welfare Association Tando Adam under the
leadership of Sultan Khaskheli and others staged a protest demonstration against
the administration of Power loom factories Tando Adam for the rights of
labourers. A flood affected woman namely Bilqees along with her 3 disabled
daughters including Rasheeda, Aneela and Sameena staged a protest demonstration
against the non issuance of Watan Card and other facilities.

The members of the Flood Affectees Rehabilitation Movement Sindh under the
leadership of Ali Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for
the rehabilitation of IDPs of Sindh. The members of the Hyderabad Action
Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and others
continued their protest demonstration against the Habib Group.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

Students protest against council's decision

LENGTH: 209  words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Oct. 30 -- The students of HNB Garhwal Central University have termed
the decision of the Education Council as one sided and in protest against it
enforced a lockout of the university's Birla campus.

Climbing atop the roof of the faculty building student union leaders raised
slogans against the decision of the Education Council and declared their
decision to undertake relay protest demonstration against the decision.

The student union leaders warned that unless the demands of the students union
were accepted the protest demonstration by the students would be intensified in
to an agitation movement.

Students of the Garhwal Central University continued their protest at the Birla
campus of the university on the second day against the decision of the EC
committee. As part of their protest the student union members also submitted
their memorandum to the SDM VK Mishra which was addressed to the Human Resource
Development ministry. Student union leaders Sanjay Singh Bisht and Sanjay
Rauthan initiated relay protest by sitting for protest demonstration at the dean
of faculty office. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For
more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday

Kosovo opposition leader backs protest rally against UN's EULEX deployment plan

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by Pristina-based independent internet news agency
KosovaLive

["AAK Supports Protest" -- KosovaLive headline]

Pristina, 19 Nov (KosovaLive) -- The Alliance for the Future of Kosovo (AAK)
supports today's protests, which is organized by nongovernmental organizations,
thus reconfirming the stance of the AAK against the UN plan, whereas other
political parties have not stated their stance regarding today's protest.

A press release of the AAK reads that this political party, based on their
analyses, evaluated the protests as right.

"By supporting the protest, the AAK reconfirms its strong position against the
six points and especially against plans and compromises for functional partition
of Kosovo," reads the press release.

Kosovo Assembly Speaker Jakup Krasniqi has also made comments yesterday
regarding today's protests. Krasniqi said that it is citizens' right to protest,
but said that there is no reason to protest because the institutions have
rejected the UN plan.

Source: KosovaLive website, Pristina, in English 19 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              May 27, 2016 Friday

'Peaceful' protests now a crime in capital

BYLINE: MUNAWER AZEEM

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 148

LENGTH: 342  words


The right to protest for their due rights is an inherent freedom enjoyed by all
citizens in a democratic set up, but police in the federal capital are looking
to clamp down on all protests, even ones that do not cause damage to public
property.

On Thursday, police registered an FIR in response to a protest involving 25 to
30 people at Islamabad Chowk, near Golra Mor.

According to the FIR, a protester who addressed the group had drawn attention to
the dilapidated state of roads in sectors G-13 and G-14, as well as the lack of
proper systems for drinking water, sewerage and street lights in the area.

The FIR stated that the protesters blocked Kashmir Highway, stopping vehicles
from entering Islamabad.

The case against the protestors was registered in response to a complaint by
Assistant Sub-Inspector Turabul Hassan, under Section 341 of the Pakistan Penal
Code, which deals with the punishment for wrongful restraint.

A senior police official, however, admitted that blocking a road during a
protest was a minor matter, and it was normally the responsibility of local and
traffic police to facilitate both motorists and protesters. It is a right of the
people to be able to stage a peaceful protest, he said. The official added that
it was not common for Islamabad police to register a case over a peaceful
protest.

Zohra Yusuf of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said that protests by
vulnerable groups or people calling for their rights were often met with
violence, while violent protests by religious groups were permitted. Freedom to
protest is a democratic right, as long as they do not infringe on the rights of
others, she maintained.

Golra Station House Officer Chaudhry Mohammad Aslam admitted that the protest
was a peaceful one, adding that the protesters were asked to vacate the road and
protest by the roadside, but they refused.

When asked about policies or SOPs regarding peaceful protests, a spokesperson
for the Islamabad inspector general said a case was registered against the
protesters because they had blocked the road.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

117 protests held in first half of June against ECP

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 179

LENGTH: 375  words


Political temperature remained high in the first half of the current month
because of the local government elections in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa where 117
protests and rallies were taken out against the Election Commission of Pakistan.

Strategy and Analysis Wing of the provincial home and tribal affairs department
said in its report that a record number of protests and road blocks were
observed in the first half of June which showed 59 per cent increase compared to
incidents occurred in the second fortnight of May.

The report comprising 53 pages said that 18,036 people took part in protest
rallies and public meetings held across the province and public registered their
grievances against the government.

The document said that the main reason for the strikes and protests was the
local government elections held on May 30. Political parties and unsuccessful
candidates held protest demonstrations against alleged rigging and were
demanding re-elections.

The document, however, does not mention killing of people in elections.
Election-related violence had claimed 20 lives and left 200 wounded across the
province.

Tripartite alliance comprising Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl, Awami National Party
and Pakistan Peoples Party held protest rallies in many districts against
rigging in the election and demanded re-poll in the presence of interim setup in
117 protests held in first half of June against ECP the province, said the
report.

It said that 117 of total 201 demonstrations, rallies and road blockades were
polling related in which 9,316 people took part, while 22 issues which caused
protests were related with the establishment department. Also, 19 protests were
held against the Peshawar Electric Supply Company for power outages.

Regarding law and order situation, the report said that multiple protests were
taken out against rise in extortion cases in Peshawar. It said that internally
displaced persons held a protest for early return to their homes.

Tribesmen also held a protest demonstration in Peshawar, demanding introduction
of local government system in Fata and end to corrupt practices of political
administration of Khyber Agency. Employees of various associations, including
paramedics, also took out rallies in favour of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

PAT protest adversely affected business activities

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 533

LENGTH: 138  words


The traders community in twin cities of Islamabad and Rawalpindi on Monday said
that Pakistan Awami Tehreek protest on the arrival of its patron-in-chief
adversely affected their business activities. The traders community said that
these kinds of issues can aggravate problems, demanding that there should be
some specific places for protest demonstrations.

They said that people are busy in shopping for Ramazan ul Mubarak, but due to
protest of PAT, their business activities have been affected badly. They claimed
that due to these unnecessary protest demonstrations the traders are suffering
losses worth millions of rupees. Gul Nawaz, a shopkeeper said that PAT protest
has no sense, adding that earlier also these people was created mess in capital
city and now again they are trying to create problems for the common man.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        Armenpress News Agency (English)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

Turkish journalists to hold protest action in Taksim Square

LENGTH: 362  words


"We, the journalists, protest against the force, violence, tension, threats,
arrests,
detentions and dismisses carried out against us during the disorders in the Gezi
Park".

YEREVAN, JULY 12, ARMENPRESS: The Turkish journalists, suffered from the actions
of the police during the anti-governmental demonstrations, will hold a protest
action in the Taksim Square of Istanbul. As reported by Armenpress, this was
published by the Turkish Demokrathaber.net.


The protest rally is intended to be held on July 12, at 19:00 by the local time
under the heading "Let me do my work". The message, spread by the journalists,
says in particular: "We, the journalists, protest against the force, violence,
tension, threats, arrests, detentions and dismisses carried out against us
during the disorders in the Gezi Park".
The disorders in Turkey began when on May 28 2013 the plans of replacing Taksim
Gezi Park with a reconstruction of the historic Taksim Military Barracks
(demolished in 1940) with the possibility of housing a shopping mall became
known. The protests developed into riots when a group occupying the park was
attacked by police. The subjects of the protests have since broadened beyond the
development of Taksim Gezi Park, developing into wider anti-government
demonstrations. The protests have also spread to other cities in Turkey, and
protests have been seen in other countries with significant Turkish communities.
On May 31 2013, police suppressed the protesters with tear gas, arrested at
least 60 people and injured hundreds. The police action received wide attention
online. 5 men died in the clashes between the police and the protesters, more
than 7,500 people were injured and about 5,000 of people were arrested. By the
data provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Turkey, about 2,5 million
people from 79 regions took part in the anti-government demonstrations held in
Turkey.
The Turkish authorities were appealed by the White House, the UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the EU foreign policy commissioner Catherine
Ashton, the US Vice President Joe Biden and the President of the Russian
Federation Vladimir Putin to settle the issue via a dialogue.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1176


                           Copyright 2013 Armenpress
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

Another wave of arrests in connection with Gezi Park protests occurs in Turkey

BYLINE: A. Taghiyeva, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


July 12--Another wave of arrests in connection with the protests, which were
held in support of the demonstrations in Istanbul Gezi Park occurred in the
Turkish cities of Izmir, Bursa, Manisa and Balikesir, Sabah newspaper said on
Friday.

As a result of the country's security forces' operations, which were held at 16
locations, around 15 people suspected of organizing the riots and attacking the
buildings of public and private organizations were detained.

The Turkish security forces claim that there are representatives of the
left-wing terrorist organizations among the detained.

Earlier it was reported that around 944 people were detained during the protests
in Turkey.

The protests have been held in Turkey for three weeks. According to the
representatives of the authorities, the protests had anti-government character.

Turkey's opposition parties accuse the police of using excessive force against
protesters.

Earlier, the Turkish Interior Ministry reported that around 2.5 million people
were involved in the protests in 79 Turkish provinces for three weeks.

Around 4,000 people were injured, 5 people were killed and 4,900 people were
detained by the police as a result of the riots in Turkey.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Gezi Park, Turkey

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130712-1AZ-Another-wave-of-arrests-in-connection-with-Gezi-Park-
protests-occurs-in-Turkey-0712-20130712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              251 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Lawyers rail at police response to Turkey protests;
Turkish lawyers join anger over police response as government seeks end protests
with meeting

BYLINE: JAMEY KEATEN SUZAN FRASER Associated PressAssociated Press

SECTION: A; Pg.2

LENGTH: 112  words


ANKARA, Turkey (AP) - Thousands of black-robed lawyers are storming out of their
courthouses in Turkey, shouting about the rough treatment police dished out to
their colleagues amid Turkey's biggest anti-government protest in years.

The rallies Wednesday by clapping, chanting jurists added a new twist to the
nearly two weeks of protests that started in Istanbul and spread to dozens of
other Turkish cities.

The protests have shaped up as the biggest test yet in the 10-year rule of Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his Islamic-rooted government.

After fierce overnight clashes in Istanbul's Taksim Square, Erdogan was to host
talks with some protesters later in the day.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 2, 2012 Saturday

Programme summary of Egyptian Nile News TV 1600 gmt 2 Jun 12

LENGTH: 353 words


0000 News headlines

1. 0055 Cairo court sentences former president Husni Mubarak and his interior
minister to life imprisonment for complicity in killing protesters; Video
report.

2. 0420 Egyptian ex-president Mubarak suffers "health crisis" upon arrival at
prison hospital.

3. 0505 Protests erupt in various Egyptian governorates over Mubarak's verdict;
Video shows protest at Tahrir Square in Cairo.

4. 0535 Live two-way with correspondent from Tahrir Square on developments of
protest.

5. 1330 Live two-way with correspondent from Alexandria on developments of
protests over Mubarak's verdict.

6. 1720 Live two-way with journalist from Suez governorate in northeast Cairo on
developments of protests over Mubarak's verdict.

7. 2530 Live two-way with journalist from Asyut governorate in Upper Egypt on
developments of protests over Mubarak's verdict.

8. 2800 Live two-way with journalist from Al-Isma'iliyah governorate on
developments of protests over Mubarak's verdict.

9. 2950 Live video report from Suez governorate; Correspondent polls ordinary
people on Mubarak's verdict.

10. 3320 More protesters flock into Tahrir Square in Cairo to protest Mubarak's
ruling.

11. 3425 Hundreds of Egyptians rally outside TV building in Cairo to protest
Mubarak's ruling; Video shows protest.

12. 3520 Some relatives of revolution victims say they were "shocked" over
Mubarak's verdict; Video report.

13. 3705 Deputy public prosecutor in Egypt says two sons of Mubarak will not be
released as they face other charges.

14. 3800 Egyptian Health Ministry says some 24 people were injured in Mubarak
trial clashes.

15. 3840 Live telephone interview with Egyptian political analyst on Mubarak's
trial today.

16. 4350 Live telephone interview with Egyptian expert in law on Mubarak's trial
today.

17. 5035 Campaign of Muslim Brotherhood's presidential candidate calls for
retrying Mubarak.

18. 5115 Egyptian presidential candidate Ahmad Shafiq says he respects judicial
rulings.

19. 5200 Live telephone interview with health official on injuries during
Mubarak's trial.

20. 5520 Closing headlines.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1600gmt 02 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday
                              Business Day Edition

Service delivery protests and their patterns

BYLINE: KAREN HEESEand KEVIN ALLAN

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 768  words


Service delivery protests and their patterns

KAREN HEESE nd KEVIN ALLAN

IT IS a relief that the aggregate number of service delivery protests for last
year fell off the highs of 2009 and 2010, but will this trend be sustained?
Recent trends in service delivery protests send mixed messages.

One of the encouraging features of last year's protests was a lull around local
government elections. The lull suggests that political engagement with
communities can channel frustrations, and that protest action is often a last
resort. In fact, protests often follow failed engagements in which memorandums
and petitions are ignored or inadequately dealt with.

Even more encouraging than last year's lull is that protests have not rapidly
accelerated since politicians took office a year ago - but they have by no means
disappeared. Municipal IQ's Hotspots Monitor, which logs major protests related
to service delivery, shows that service delivery protests for the year so far
account for 8% of protests recorded since 2004; if they continue at the same
rate, not only will they outstrip last year's aggregate number but, more
worrying, also 2009's - thanks to a busy first quarter. March saw a 22-month
peak in protests, but it is far off those of 2009 and 2010 and growth in the
number of protests decelerated last month. It should be noted, however, that
almost all of last month's protests were squeezed into 10 days.

The problem with analysing protests is that they tend to be lumpy. In trying to
discern whether the first quarter's spike will be sustained for the rest of the
year, it is interesting to consider the recent past. Both 2009 and last year
both saw a rise in the second quarter, but both years also had quieter first
quarters than this year. The busier first quarter of 2010, by contrast, saw a
tailing off in the second quarter, which makes a trend hard to surmise. It is
perhaps more useful to understand the driving forces behind this year's
protests, which have a markedly different provincial breakdown from previous
years. Many protests this year have had complex motivations, with some -
including those in the racially tense Western Cape's Theewaterskloof and
politically unsettled Bitou and Nelson Mandela Bay - having political
undercurrents that, if not catalysing protests, may have added to their fury.

Others, including those in Mpumalanga, have surrounded the delivery of basic
services, in particular water. The Free State, a worrying site given its seminal
flare-up in 2004, is again a province typified by service delivery protests.

Conspicuously quiet is Gauteng.

Sustained protest activity in the Free State and Mpumalanga this year put these
provinces, along with the Eastern Cape and Western Cape, ahead of Gauteng as the
most protest-ridden provinces - a major achievement for Gauteng in its attempts
to mitigate protest activity, considering its former dominance as the most
protest-afflicted province.

Between 2004 and this year, Gauteng accounted for almost one-third of protests
on the Hotspots Monitor, but this year it has fallen to a mere 11%, whereas the
Western Cape has risen to 25% from a more modest 17% since 2004.

What, then, is Gauteng's apparent secret? While protests such as those in
Ratanda and Kya Sands continue to hit headlines, most of the metros are acutely
aware of protests and the need to respond, with the provincial MEC often the
first on the scene. There is a balancing act too; politicians cannot appear to
be at the mercy of violent protests, and while the official line has been to
condemn such actions, swift political responses appear to have mitigated protest
activity.

Of course, a rapid response is easier to achieve in metropolitan areas, and it
is noteworthy that almost two-thirds of this year's protests have taken place in
nonmetro areas; until this year, there has been a 50:50 mix between 2004's and
2011's aggregate protest breakdown. This profile has policing implications too,
often with riot units far from the site of protests and local police
ill-equipped to deal with large-scale protest activity.

Is this year set for another record?

If protests in Gauteng heat up, almost certainly. But if the trends of this year
are sustained, it is the Western Cape, Nelson Mandela Bay, the Free State and
water-scarce Mpumalanga municipalities that need to be watched.

With winter approaching, with its electricity and other service hikes, the
impatience shown by those who felt e-tolling was an unaccountable service should
be heeded. With no time for complacency, communities must be heard.

& 8226;Heese is Municipal IQ's economist; Allan is its MD.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            October 17, 2011 Monday

Popular protests

BYLINE: The Financial Express

LENGTH: 319  words


The Occupy Wall Street protests, now more than a month old, are showing no signs
of stopping-in fact, they've even spread to London, Rome and Melbourne. The
feeling behind the protests-that the bankers of the world have earned their
supernormal profits at the expense of the common man-is a pretty common one in
this economic climate, but it seems that the drive to take to the streets is
also becoming equally common. The Arab Spring protests, and the worldwide
coverage they got through the media and social networks, have almost made it
fashionable to protest against the established order.

But a protest needs direction and, more importantly, a mission. The Arab Spring
protests were political, with the aim to overthrow dictatorial regimes; the Anna
Hazare-led movement in India was equally targeted, towards the passing of a
strong anti-corruption Bill. The spate of protests in the West, in contrast,
have been singularly chaotic and directionless. Take the London riots, for
example. Ostensibly started over an alleged firing by the police on a civilian,
the protests quickly took on a nasty character, with rioting, looting and
burning ruining the livelihoods of many small business men. The Occupy Wall
Street protests, too, are in a similar state, although they haven't really
turned violent, except in Rome. The point of the protest is in the protest
itself, not in what the demands are. The people involved want their displeasure
at the existing economic scenario to be known, but then what? The lack of a goal
almost condemns the movement to peter out.

The simple truth is that radical reactionary measures against Wall Street will
not help. Just doing away with the bankers will

only worsen the problem manifold. There is no simple solution to this. The
protests have made their point-people are unhappy with the excesses of Wall
Street and are angry enough to show it-but maybe it's now time to go home?

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2011 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Russian Business Monitor (Russia)

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday

LEVADA CENTER POLL SHOWS 60% SUPPORT FOR PROTESTS

SECTION: HUMAN RESOURCES; No. 24

LENGTH: 390 words


"What do you think of the people participating in rallies and manifestations
against the falling living standards and therefore trying to defend their
rights?" Levada Center sociologists asked 1,600 respondents between February 20
and 23. Nineteen percent admitted feeling respect for the protesters and 41%
said they fully understood them. Seven percents admitted interest. Not a single
respondent said that street protests were an affront to be put an end to.
Twenty-six percent admitted indifference.

Answers to an analogous question concerning street actions in support of the
government were different: 31% declared support, 11% sneered, and 41% were
indifferent.

Protest expectations greatly increased over the last couple of months.
Possibility of protests was recognized by 18% of respondents in November, 20% in
December, and 39% in February. Readiness to join protests was declared by 20% in
December and 23% nowadays.

Expectations of these protests are particularly considerable in cities with the
population between 100,000 and 500,000 or more but not in Moscow. Readiness to
protest was mostly admitted by residents of small townships (27-28%) where
sympathy with street protests was particularly strong (66%).

"That's potential energy rather than actual willingness to protest," Levada
Center Assistant Director Alexei Grazhdankin said. "There were even more
sympathizers in the 1990s but actual participation in the protests then was
nothing to write home about. I'd rather say that results of the opinion poll
indicate the general mood of society and its attitude toward anti-crisis policy
of the government and splendiferous actions in its support."

Ilya Yashin of the Solidarity Movement, one of the most active protesters, said
the next wave of protests was expected in the regions (as opposed to the
capitals) in April and May. Protests would probably take place in the Far East,
Nizhny Novgorod, Yaroslavl, and Sochi. "It is absence of legitimate opposition
and genuine trade unions that makes street protests the only option," Yashin
said.

Vadim Soloviov of the CPRF Central Committee said a nationwide protest campaign
is planned for late March. The CPRF's last nationwide protests drew 2-2.5
million people in cities across Russia. The CPRF is counting on 7-8 million
protesters in late March.

Source: Vedomosti, March 6, 2009

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                          Sunday World (South Africa)

                                 August 7, 2016

Protests a nest for criminals

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 156 words


IT seems service delivery protests are becoming a nest for criminals to hide
before they prey on innocent people.
  A recent protest near Leratong Hospital, towards Tshepisong on the West Rand,
was clouded by acts of criminality when young people saw it as an opportunity to
extort money from motorists by blockading the main road.


 It was sad to observe that these protests had turned what could have been a
valid protest into a criminal act during peak hour traffic.
  A group of young men approached a woman motorist and promised to escort her
through the protest without being harmed if she could just give them a tip of
R10. Their protest was a failure because cops acted swiftly and stopped what
could have been a nightmare for motorists.

 These criminal elements deviate from the genuine concerns facing communities,
because opportunists use these protest marches to exhort money from desperate
motorists.
  Sithembiso Mkhize
  By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sunday World,sw,SW,SundayWorld,Sunday


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Miadhu (Maldives)

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday

MDP, AP fined for 27th November mass protest

LENGTH: 151  words


Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) and Adhaalath Party (AP) has been fined by MVR
75,000 each, in connection to the mass protest carried out on the 27th of
November.

Elections Commission (EC) stated that the Commission had passed to fine the two
parties for the inclusion of minors and the use of UN logo in the protest.

MDP has stated that the Party did not include minors in the protest and that the
Party cannot be held responsible for the actions carried out by individuals.

The guidelines on protests say that protest organizers should be responsible for
all the events that take place during the protest.

The UN Office had raised concerns on the use of their logo in the protest to the
ACC and had issued tweets that the logo cannot be used in such a manner.

EC had said that if the parties did not pay the amount, then the amount will be
deducted from the funds released to the parties from the state budget.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Miadhu
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            August 29, 2015 Saturday

Bhagat roars like a lion, runs away like a rat;
Congress leader reduces alt145dhamaka' agitation to a mere photo-op

BYLINE: Amit Srivastava

LENGTH: 376  words


Congress leader reduces alt145dhamaka' agitation to a mere photo-op

Vashi: They called journalists from all over Navi Mumbai to witness a 'dhamaka'
of a protest and by the end of the fiasco, it turned out to be a whimper.

City Congress chief Dashrath Bhagat and his cronies summoned the media to
witness a stormy protest against Cidco at an ongoing meet between its managing
director Sanjay Bhatia and project-affected persons. Far from storming the
venue, Bhagat tamely held a banner outside the gate and sheepishly got away from
the venue.

The confused Congress workers, who sought media attention outside Cidco
exhibition centre in Vashi, were equally clueless. They claimed that there were
carrying out a peaceful protest against Cidco. However, with a bunch of hardly
20 party workers, the protest ended in a couple of minutes.

Several people crossing the stretch could not stop themselves by asking whether
it was a protest or a photo shoot to seek media attention.

Bhagat, known to roar during a protest, was not even able to give an exact
reason what prompted them to stage a protest and what are their demands.
Meanwhile, the mediapersons kept asking the reason of their protest. However,
instead of giving reason of their protest they quietly asked mediapersons to
come outside the centre, who were attending the Cidco's investment and banking
seminar for NMIA PAPs, as they would protest.

Even it was learnt that a few mediapersons were reportedly informed over the
phone by party workers that there would be a stormy protest at the centre in
Vashi.

Eventually, after bringing the media outside the centre, around 20 party
workers, along with Bhagat, just posed for photographs.

Sources claimed that Vashi police reportedly prevented the outfit from carrying
out any protest, following which the party dropped the idea of protest and just
posed for photographs. However, Bhagat refused the claim that he was under any
pressure from police.

"I had never carried out any protest under fear," he said, adding, "I wanted to
make the PAPs aware that they need to be cautious as they would land in trouble
in future. Cidco did nothing after taking lands of the poor villagers. I need
media support to raise the issue."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Over 20 polling stations attacked in Turkey

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 232 words


March 14--Over 20 polling stations in Turkey were attacked during yesterday's
protests, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said, TRT Haber TV channel
reported on March 13.

Arinc said the protests that took place yesterday, were directed against the
government.

"No force can change the government with protests," Arinc said.

He also said that the policy changes should be made in a democratic way.

On March 11 there were mass protests in 32 Turkish cities with regard to the
death of the 15-year-old Elvan Berkin. He suffered a head injury during a rally
in May last year and died recently.

The largest protests were observed in Istanbul and Ankara.

Mass protests were also held on March 12 during Elvan Berkin's funeral.

Anti-government protests took place in Turkey for nearly three weeks beginning
in late May.

Turkish oppositional parties accused the police of using excessive force against
protestors.

In total, around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in
protests during the three weeks, the Turkish Interior Ministry said.

As a result of the unrests in Turkey nearly 4,000 people were injured with
varying severity, 4,900 were detained by the police.

Translated by E.A.

Edited by C.N.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140314-1AZ-Over-20-polling-stations-attacked-in-Turkey-0314-20140314

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              263 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Opposition supporters protest against Turkish PM

LENGTH: 276  words


Supporters of Turkey's main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) shout
slogans during a protest against Turkey's ruling Ak Party (AKP) and Prime
Minister Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul February 26, 2014. The protest came after
Erdogan accused political enemies of faking a recording of a phone conversation
suggesting he had warned his son to hide large sums of money as the graft
inquiry erupted.[Photo/Agencies]

Turks stage protests demanding PM's resignation

Turkish PM: Tapes of talk with son a fabrication

Turkey's main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) mayoral candidate
Mustafa Sarigul (C) speaks during a protest against Turkey's ruling Ak Party
(AKP) and Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul February 26,
2014.[Photo/Agencies]

Turks stage protests demanding PM's resignation

Turkish PM: Tapes of talk with son a fabrication

Supporters of Turkey's main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) stand
behind a stack of fake bills during a protest against Turkey's ruling Ak Party
(AKP) and Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul February 26,
2014.[Photo/Agencies]

Turks stage protests demanding PM's resignation

Turkish PM: Tapes of talk with son a fabrication

Protesters hold placards during a protest against Turkey's ruling Ak Party (AKP)
government in Ankara February 26, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Turks stage protests demanding PM's resignation

Turkish PM: Tapes of talk with son a fabrication

Riot police and demonstrators scuffle during a protest against Turkey's ruling
Ak Party (AKP) government in Ankara February 26, 2014. [Photo/Agencies]

Turks stage protests demanding PM's resignation

Turkish PM: Tapes of talk with son a fabrication

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

Service delivery protests politicised

BYLINE: Siyabonga Mkhwanazi

LENGTH: 378 words


THABO Manyoni, the chairperson of the SA Local Government Association (Salga)
chairperson Thabo Manyoni, has blamed some violent service delivery protests on
infighting in political parties.

Manyoni told The New Age Business Briefing in Cape Town on Friday that while
people were allowed to protest, he questioned the violence behind some of the
protests.

Service delivery protests have been hitting the country over the last few years,
with Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Lechesa Tsenoli
revealing in a written parliamentary reply to a question two weeks ago that
Gauteng was the hot spot for these protest.

He said between 2011 and 2013 there had been a total of 46 public protests in
Gauteng, resulting in 546 people being arrested for destroying property, theft
and assault.

Manyoni, who is also the mayor of Mangaung, said local government was trying to
keep pace with the level of service delivery demands.

"Citizens should own municipalities. That is why we are talking about inclusive
cities. The problem is that we don't talk with one another, we talk across each
other. In South Africa we are chasing a moving target," he said.

Tsenoli said the auditor-general, Terence Nombembe, had found that there were no
systems in place, making it difficult to meet service delivery objectives by
municipalities.

Replying to a question on the protests Manyoni said there was a need to contain
these protests.

"What I am stressing is that before you protest let's engage. You can't explain
why someone should burn a library, but these things are happening. You find that
in most cases these protests are politically motivated," he said.

Parties must rein in their members and not bicker in public, resulting in the
violent service delivery protests, he said.

Senior ANC leaders, including ministers in Parliament, have warned against
factionalism and infighting causing violent protests.

Some people are said to be exploiting the frustrations of communities over the
lack of service delivery to advance their political agenda by waging protests to
oust their rivals.

The public protests have been escalating over the last few years.

Tsenoli said he could not quantify the damage caused to property during the
protests.

siyabongam@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                            December 21, 2012 Friday

New law governing protests

BYLINE: Laurence Underhill

LENGTH: 299 words


Protests in Egypt could soon be regulated by a new law (File photo)
Mohamed Omar

A new law governing protests is expected to be issued soon, amid concern over a
possible crack-down on freedom of protests.

In a press conference held at the presidential palace Thursday night, the
president's official spokesperson Yasser Aly denied that the new protests law
would resemble the notorious emergency law which governed Egypt throughout
Mubarak's 30-year reign. Aly stated that the law would guarantee the
preservation of democratic mechanisms and the protection of public as well as
private properties, reported state-owned Al-Ahram.

"We do not intend to bring back a state of emergency," Aly was quoted by
Al-Ahram as saying, "if we intended to take any exceptional decisions, we would
have done so during the more severe circumstances we've faced recently."

Aly stated that the new law would determine the bodies holding protests, as well
as the time and place for such protests. He added that such a mechanism is being
used worldwide.

"The process of protesting needs further organisation," Aly said, adding that
the forms of violence which took over several recent protests have caused alarm.
Aly stated that everybody should unite to stop all forms of violence.

Emergency law, which Egypt adopts whenever a state of emergency is declared,
puts restrictions on people's rights of association, in effect it could ban
protests or marches.

The protest law was earlier proposed by Essam Sharaf's cabinet in March 2011.
Sharaf's law criminalised protests, sit-ins and gatherings. The cabinet
justified the proposed law saying that such protests stall work in public and
private institutions. The law was criticised by several human rights
organisations, including Amnesty International. It was never implemented.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2012 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

CPN-M to join hands with oppn parties in anti govt protests

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Sept. 26 -- KATHMANDU, Sept 25: The ongoing politburo meeting of
CPN-Maoist has decided to adopt all possible means to intensify the protest
against the current government.

The meeting at the party headquarters in Buddhanagar, also concluded that the
earlier protest programs of the party were a great success. "We decided to
intensify the street protests against the government and prominently raise the
issues of national sovereignty and people's livelihood," Secretary Netra Bikram
Chand told .

Chand said that they would discuss ways to make the joint protest program with
other opposition parties including Nepali Congress and CPN-UML more effective.

CPN-Maoist had earlier launched street protests against the government terming
it 'anti-national'. "The target of fresh protest will be to exert pressure on
Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai to step down. The protest will create ground
for forming a joint national government," added Politburo member Kul Prasad KC.

KC said the street protest will also be targeted against price hikes and
hoarding of various daily necessities. "After privatization of all institutions
of government, our country is going to hands of the bureaucratic compradors. So,
we are going to form a joint front of the all patriotic forced," claimed KC.

Among other things, the meeting also decided to form around 90 district
organizing committees including 75 geographical and 15 non-geographical district
committees.

The newly formed party has already announced mass meetings in the major cities
across the country. While the party general secretary Ram Bahadur Thapa and
Secretary Chand will address the gathering in the capital and in Pokhara,
respectively, the party bureau in-charges will address other mass gatherings of
the party. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                             August 24, 2012 Friday

Protests close Howard College

BYLINE: Tebogo Monama Education Reporter

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 304 words


CLASSES at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Howard College have been suspended
until Monday following violent protests by students.


 The protests at this college and the Pietermaritzburg campus started on
Tuesday.
 On Wednesday police dispersed the protesters and also arrested five students.
The students were released yesterday.
 Students are protesting over security at off-campus residences.

  University spokeswoman Nomonde Mbadi said students were continuing the protest
action at Howard College.
 "A group of students gathered at Shepstone Building Level 6 this morning. Risk
management services are monitoring the protest and the SAPS is on campus. The
SAPS were informed that the protest action is illegal.
  "Management is committed to reaching an agreement with the protesting students
in a professional and peaceful manner," Mbadi said.
 Classes have been suspended indefinitely and examinations were moved to the
Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) after protests over financial exclusion.

  Violent protests at TUT started at the Soshanguve, GaRankuwa and Pretoria West
campuses and this week affected other provinces, forcing management to shut down
the premises.
  The students are complaining about the allocation of funds from the National
Student Financial Aid Scheme. They are also demanding that all catering
contracts be cancelled.
  Students were evicted from the residences and university spokeswoman Willa de
Ruyter said the campuses have been closed to ensure the safety of students,
staff and property. Staff have been back at the institution from Tuesday.
  Students will be notified by text message when the institution will be open
again.
 Higher education and training spokeswoman Vuyelwa Qinga said a team had been
selected to deal with the issues at TUT on a regular basis. -
monamat@sowetan.co.za

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

Jaago Mangalore Association calls off protest campaign following police advisory

BYLINE: Jaideep Shenoy

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 306 words


MANGALORE: Jaago Mangalore Association has called off its planned protest march
and protest meet on August 21 planned as part of the week-long protest campaign
against attacks on young birthday party revellers at Morning Mist Home Stay at
Padil on July 28. This follows move by Mangalore City Police to deny them
permission citing potential law and order disturbances that the protest march
and meet could trigger in the present day situation.

Vijaynath Shetty, chief coordinator, Jaago Mangalore Association stated that
following the recent developments regarding the protest campaign, he met City
Police Chief Seemant Kumar and again sought clearance for planned protest march
and meet on Tuesday. However Seemant expressed his unwillingness to grant
permission stating that the issue was getting hot and it might lead to untoward
law and order situation that might arise during the protest.

The movement was meant to be a civilized and peaceful protest with the main
objective being to express strong disapproval against violence, especially
violence against women. As Jaago Mangalore Association has no intention to break
the law or create public nuisance in order to voice its protest, Vijaynath said
that as of now, the protest planned for Tuesday stands cancelled. He urged
everyone to shun violence and help create a better 'Mangalore to Live'.

Incidentally, City Police on Thursday had arrested Vijaynath Shetty, along with
Gurudath Kamath and Vijay Kumar, two among the male victims of Padil attack and
others when they attempted to hold a protest meeting in front of the DCs office
here. Seemant had justified the action against JMA stating the association
office bearers did not obtain prior permission nor intimate the jurisdictional
police about their protest forcing police to arrest them.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                               1 - State Edition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 85

LENGTH: 472  words


Egyptian unrest part of a bigger picture around the world

I understand that the Egyptian protests are linked to other protests around
Africa and the Middle East. Could you please tell me in which countries
demonstrations or protests have occurred? - M.B. (Lockleys)

The first of the protests, in Tunisia on December 18 last year, has since been
referred to as a revolution.

The government was overthrown and president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled.

The governing party, the Constitutional Democratic Rally, was subsequently
disbanded, removed from government and suspended. Major street protests were
held in Tunisia, resulting in 219 deaths and many injuries.

In Algeria, major demonstrations were also held from December 28. President
Abdelaziz Bouteflika promised an end to the 19-year state of emergency in the
near future but no date was announced.

From January 13 to 21, smaller-scale protests were held in many countries
including Libya, Jordan, Mauritania, Oman, Sudan, Yemen and Saudi Arabia.
However, the death tolls for these protests was minimal to none. The next major
protest was the Egyptian revolution in which more than 300 people died. The
protests began on January 25 and president Hosni Mubarak handed power to the
military on February 11.

The Armed Forces Supreme Council subsequently announced the suspension of the
constitution, the dissolution of both houses of parliament and a general
election within six months.

After the start of the Egypt demonstrations, there were several more in Syria,
Morocco, Djibouti, Iraq and Bahrain.

Roebucks not related

Two simple unrelated sporting questions. 1: Was Ayrton Senna left or
right-handed? 2: Is cricket journalist and ABC commentator Peter Roebuck related
to famous motor racing journalist Nigel Roebuck? - P.B. (Port Elliot)

Brazilian racing driver Ayrton Senna was left-handed. Peter and Nigel Roebuck
are not known to be directly related.

Don't forget this one

I am trying to remember the word that describes the state of not being able to
remember the word you want to use. The irony is that I can never remember the
word that describes this state of not remembering. Can you please help? - S.B.
(Mt Barker)

The word you are trying to remember is lethologica. It is not in all
dictionaries but is defined by dictionary.com as ``the inability to remember a
word or put your finger on the right word''.

Where to write

Questions should be addressed to What's Your Problem? The Advertiser, GPO Box
339, Adelaide, 5001, or email to problems@adv.newsltd.com.au Please include name
and address, not necessarily for publication.Need more information? Contact the
State Library of SA inquiry service on 82077250/7252 or country (freecall)
1800182013.WWW home page: http://www.slsa.sa.gov.au/goto/askus

Please note that answers published are not necessarily supplied by the State
Library.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       The News Courier (Athens, Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday

Tea party organizers taking protest to D.C.

BYLINE: Karen Middleton, The News Courier, Athens, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


Jul. 28--One of the organizers of the local Tea Party tax protest said Monday
she is encouraging her group and any other supporters to hop aboard the Tea
Party Express and take the protest to Washington.

Deborah King said the Tea Party Express is a wave of tax and "reckless
government spending" protests that is sweeping across the nation and will
culminate Sept. 12 in a march on Washington.

The local group held a Tea Party protest in Athens on April 18 and joined the
Decatur group on July 4.

Supporters have already registered 14,000 nationwide and hope to attract at
least 100,000 to their cause, according to the Web site:
http://shoals2dc.webs.com.

"When I saw this information about the march throughout the United States I
thought Alabama should be in those numbers," said King. "Citizens who are tired
of reckless government spending and bailouts should not sit silently while this
administration spends this government into bankruptcy.

"The reasons I got involved are I'm against socialized health care, the
government taking over industries, socialism, and spreading the wealth. What I
am for -- and from what I've seen this government is against -- is the
Constitution, limited government, gun rights and God."

Organizers have set an Aug. 14 deadline to register to join the March on
Washington. Call King at (256) 559-0980 for answers to questions about motel or
bus accommodations. If you plan to go by train, call Karen Krutch at (256)
764-2230 to make reservations.

The limit is four persons to a room and no rollaway beds or sleeping bags are
allowed. Room reservations will only be assured after your check is received.

"We will leave by bus on Sept. 11 and return Sept. 13," said King.

To see more of The News Courier or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.enewscourier.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The News Courier, Athens, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090728-XN-Tea-party-organizers-taking-protest-to-D-C-0728

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XN


                                 Copyright 2009


                              272 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Right to protest is at heart of democracy

BYLINE: The Gazette

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 195  words


That letter-writer Ed Brown ("Ban masked protest," Jan. 28) equates protests
with riots, while Gary Ikeman ("No masks," Jan. 26) argues that demonstrators
"disrupt our society with impunity" betrays a complete misunderstanding of the
rights and freedoms enshrined in our charter.

Protests can be messy affairs, but they are at the root of democratic government
and protected under our right to freedom of speech and of assembly. Any move to
clamp down on the ability and inclination of citizens to protest against
policies they find unjust is a step down the slippery road to injustice and
oppression. One need only look at the critical role of mass protest in assuring
civil rights for blacks and women to see how integral these rights have been,
and continue to be, in shaping our society.

I, for example, consider Ikeman's charming assertion that immigrants who wish to
protest should "stay home and protest in their own country" both racist and
xenophobic. But the Charter of Rights and Freedoms protects his right to make
such a statement, as it does mine to call it racist. It also protects the right
to protest of every resident of Canada, citizen or not.

Ethan Cox

Rigaud

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                    February 18, 2003 Tuesday Final Edition

Naive protests

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Peter A. Beeftink

SECTION: News; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 90 words

I am amazed at all the protests against a war with Iraq. When Iraq used poisoned
gas against Iran and against its own citizens, killing many tens of thousands,
there was nobody protesting in the streets, or anywhere else.

Has everybody such a short memory? Are these protesters assuming that Iraq has
been so nice that it has either neatly used up all its poisoned gas, or
conscientiously cleaned up all its remaining stocks?

If protesters believe this, maybe the tooth fairy will come to them soon.

Peter A. Beeftink,

Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

WATCH: Republicans protest at PSNI recruitment event

LENGTH: 453  words


A protest held outside a PSNI recruitment event in Londonderry has passed off
peacefully.

Around 3.30pm on Saturday afternoon approximately 60 protesters carrying
banners, Irish tricolours and placards made their way from Pilot's Row in the
Bogside, across the Peace Bridge and through St. Columb's Park where they were
stopped by police from entering the venue where the recruitment event took
place.

Independent Derry City and Strabane District Council councillor Gary Donnelly
was amongst the protesters.

"This is a protest led by the people of Derry against British policing,"
Councillor Donnelly said.

"Over the last number of days there have been a number of homes ransacked by the
PSNI and there has been a dramatic increase in the number of stop and searches.
People have come here today to show their anger and opposition to British
policing," he added.

PSNI officers in high visibility jackets maintained a barrier across the
entrance during the protest.

Several PSNI land rovers observed the protest from less than 50 yards away.

There was no violence and no one was arrested. The protest lasted over an hour
and passed off without incident.

Elected members of the DUP, including Gregory Campbell and MLA for Foyle, Gary
Middleton, attended the protest.

Mr Middleton described the protest as "disgraceful" and said he did not think it
was peaceful.

"I am disgusted at this protest because again, individuals have taken it upon
themselves to disrupt what is an employment opportunity for many," he said.

"I think it's disgraceful that people who have come to this recruitment event
today have been denied that opportunity. I am all for peaceful protest and I
support the right of people to protest peacefully but what we have here today is
completely unacceptable."

The PSNI recruitment event was due to take place in Waterfoot Hotel on Saturday
October 10 but the police postponed the session as they feared a planned
Republican Network for Unity (R.N.U.) protest had the potential to interfere
with a wedding due to take place at the hotel at the same time.

Police then carried out a search after they received reports that a suspect
device had been planted near the hotel on October 9.

After a thorough search of the area a viable device was discovered in the
grounds of the hotel.

The event was then due to take place in the hotel on Saturday October 17 but
hotel owner Garvan O'Doherty decided against it because he feared for the safety
of customers and staff.

The PSNI then announced on Wednesday that an alternative venue had been found on
the event went ahead as planned on Saturday afternoon.

The PSNI held two information sessions at St. Columb's Park House and Justice
Minister, David Ford MLA, was in attendance.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Dirty deals: For a few leaders, 'protest' is tool for blackmailing

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: JAMMU


JAMMU, July 3 -- The protests, which are a strong medium of communicating with
the government on vital issues of public importance, may gradually lose their
flavour in Jammu given the inputs that a few small-time leaders have been doing
so to blackmail government officers.

They need a reason to protest, howsoever irrelevant it may be. Some protest 30
days a month over virtually "no" issues, discrediting this important form of
democratic expression.

The frequently held demonstrations are anti-Pakistan, anti-Geelani and against
the government over dilapidated roads, broken electric poles, choked drains and
other such issues. Their acts are solely aimed at drawing the attention of
authorities concerned towards them and they succeed in it.

A few days back, a government engineer was found enquiring about the address of
a "protester" at New Plots. Asked why he wanted to meet him, he said, "Sahib ne
bheja hai us-se milne ke liye taaki voh hmare department ke khilaf protest na
kare (My boss has asked me to meet him so that he does not protest against our
department)."

For these leaders, protests are a "tool" for blackmailing. They have found out
this new way to mint money. They would hold protests and then resort to
blackmailing of the authorities concerned to keep their mouth shut in future.

There is another leader, who would protest outside Press Club against a
particular department once or twice a month. Later, he could be seen frequently
visiting this department and exchanging "pleasantries" with its officers.

There is another set of leaders who would hold protests to get favours from the
state administration but most of them have now been sidelined by their parties.

The "protest industry" is flourishing well for them. People's issues are
important for them only to make money and carve out some political space for
them.

Apart from these protesters, there are others for whom politics is a means of
making a fortune. A small-time contractor did not have much work to do but after
he joined Congress, he developed close relations with a former PCC president
which, in turn, helped him to extract huge contracts from engineers of different
government departments. He is now a rich person. Like him, there are some others
too who have joined politics only to make money.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 7, 2015 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Pres Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 875

LENGTH: 299  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by the people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Saturday. According to details, the
members of the Property Dealers Association Qasimabad recorded a protest
demonstration against the builder of the Memon Housing Scheme. The property
dealers accused the builder Ghaffar Dada of selling one plot to several people
in Memon Housing Scheme. On the occasion, they demanded of the concerned
authorities to take action against the accused builder. A man namely Lutifullah
Jamali, resident of Ganjo Takar recorded a protest demonstration for the arrest
of his brothers accused murderers. The protesting man said that his brother was
killed six years ago but the police have still not arrested his accused
murderers.

On the occasion, he demanded of the higher authorities to ensure the arrest of
his brothers murderers. Another man namely Premo Kolhi, resident of Hussainabad
staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his abducted wife. He
demanded of the concerned authorities to take steps for the recovery of his
abducted wife, otherwise he has threatened to accelerate his protest circle.

A man namely Khair Mohammad Chohan, resident of Kotri continued his protest
demonstration for the arrest of his son Sadiq Chohans accused murderers. The
employees of the Sindh Small Industries also continued their protest
demonstration for the issuance of their withheld salaries. The local
transporters of Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration for the release of a
driver namely Ramzan Brohi, who has been arrested in India. The activists of the
Jeay Sindh Tehreek staged a protest demonstration against the registration of
cases on their party leaders including Shafi Mohammad Karnani, Sohail Abro,
Sooriah Sindhi and others.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                  Carroll County Times (Westminster, Maryland)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

McDaniel hosts discussion of Freddie Gray, protests, police brutality

BYLINE: Jacob deNobel, Carroll County Times, Westminster, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words


April 30--Amid ongoing protests in Baltimore contesting police brutality, more
than 100 students at McDaniel College gathered in the Baker Memorial Hall on
Wednesday night to discuss the death of Freddie Gray, minority communities'
relationship with the police and the politics of nonviolent protest.

The event, Believe: Bigger Than Baltimore, was spearheaded by students on campus
who wished to have a platform to discuss these issues. After a performance of
"Amazing Grace' by students Malcolm Jones and Briahna Harris, McDaniel
professors and students took the stage to give short speeches on a variety of
aspects of the protests in Baltimore.

Pam Zappardino, co-director of the Zepp Center for Nonviolence and Peace
Education, spoke about the history of nonviolent protest and the ways it is
often misunderstood. Zappardino said nonviolent protest doesn't simply mean
turning the other cheek or walking peacefully down a road before dispersing.

She described protest as seeking change through disruption of the status quo and
demanding justice. She also quoted Martin Luther King, Jr's 1968 speech in which
he describes riots as the language of the unheard.

"And what is it that America has failed to hear? It has failed to hear that the
plight of the Negro poor has worsened over the last few years," Zappardino said,
quoting King. "It has failed to hear that the promises of freedom and justice
have not been met. And it has failed to hear that large segments of white
society are more concerned about tranquility and the status quo than about
justice, equality, and humanity."

Senior Jelae McNeil, of Philadelphia, who spoke immediately after Zappardino,
said it shouldn't take a death to be publicized for the campus to come together
to discuss issues of racism and injustice.

"If you want to step up, it starts from the top. It starts with our president.
Then it goes from our president to our faculty and staff. And from there it goes
down to the students and across the whole campus," McNeil said. "If we can't fix
McDaniel, then we can't fix other places."

The final student to speak was Elijah Jones, a sophomore from Baltimore. Jones
said when he watches the news and sees teenagers in the streets, he's reminded
of himself.

"If I was 15 again, that would be me. And I say that because I was lost. I feel
like everybody at that age is lost," Jones said. "You feel like you're
suffocating. You feel like you're slowly but surely dying. So when I see images
of Freddie Gray and I see video, I realize that I am Freddie Gray. We went to
the same schools and lived in the same neighborhoods. What's the difference
between him and I?"

Freshman Joseph Ferguson said he was born and raised in Baltimore, and wanted to
attend the event to hear other peoples' perspectives on what was going on in his
hometown. He said over the past few days, he's relied mainly on social media to
keep him up to date with the news.

Attendee Melanie Ojwang, a junior from Columbia, said the discussions about
Baltimore have been taking place across campus over the past week.

"That's why I think an event like this is so important. It provides people a
space to talk about these things safely and comfortably, and get their feelings
out in a positive manner."

At the end of the evening, organizers held a candle lighting and a moment of
silence and remembrance for the victims of police brutality. On their way out,
students were invited to write messages on banners labeled "Solidarity," "Heal"
and "Come Together," which are planned to be hung in the hall of the Decker
College Center.

Jacob.deNobel@carrollcountytimes.com

410-857-7890

Twitter.com/Jacob_deNobel

___ (c)2015 the Carroll County Times (Westminster, Md.) Visit the Carroll County
Times (Westminster, Md.) at www.carrollcountytimes.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150430-WX-McDaniel-hosts-discussion-of-Freddie-Gray-protests
-police-brutality-0430-20150430

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WX


                      Copyright 2015 Carroll County Times


                              278 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Macedonian analysts view reasons for "unsuccessful" civil protests

LENGTH: 836 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Nova Makedonija on 2 December

[Report by Marta Tanevska: "All Protests Are Political, but Not Partisan"]

Although civil protests, in which the Macedonian youth most often takes part,
have been staged for several years now, they eventually rarely ever affect civic
activism. After a while, the protests abate, while the demands of those who go
out on the streets and seek changes are libeled as partisan, after which the
protests acquire a different dimension. Some of their demands may be fulfilled
or reach an institution, after which the protesters retreat, as they think that
their job has been done and that the institutions have taken them seriously.

This is the analysis of state political analysts, who believe that persistence
is crucial for a successful protest, as well as that it is important that the
arguments for the protest are justified and that the public is convinced of
their necessity. One of the protests that the public remembers both in terms of
its purpose and its motive was the protest against police brutality held three
years ago over Martin Neskovski's murder. A larger group of young people
protested against police brutality for days and they set specific demands to the
MVR [Interior Ministry], part of which were fulfilled and resulted in the
14-year imprisonment of the murderer: Igor Spasov, a member of the Tigers
special unit.

Public attention was later drawn by the civic initiative AMAN's protests against
higher prices of electricity, central heating, and fuels. These protests lasted
five months, and meanwhile a civic initiative was taken to amend the Energy Law
by collecting more than 13,000 signatures, which provided the opportunity for
the AMAN demands to be debated in the Macedonian Assembly.

Initiative Must Not Abate

The currently topical protest is the students' protest against external testing
at universities. All the protests have specific demands and set goals, but civic
activism can be successful only if the public is convinced that the protests are
held over some extremely important matter and that the arguments for the protest
are justified. According to political analyst Saso Klekovski, the most important
thing is for the protesters' demands to be legitimate and for them to be able to
persuade the public that changes are required regarding the matter in question.

"The success of any protest is closely related to whether the protesters hold
their ground and convince the public that they are doing this for a reason. It
is important that the initiative should not abate after a specific goal is met,
as was the case with the AMAN's protests, once its demands were debated at the
Assembly. The mobilization should continue, but in our country initiatives most
often subdue after a while. An example of a successful civil protest was the
closure of the Veles smelter because, despite the economic interests, the public
demands were met," Klekovski says.

All Protests Are Political

Professor Jove Kekenovski says that it is obvious that Macedonian mentality
prevents the protesters from going all the way with a certain demand, which
leads to a number of unsuccessful protests in our country.

"Not a single protest thus far has ended with the meeting of all demands. Even
the large-scale protests have ended with a retreat and they have never gone all
the way. The demands are either not realized or partially realized, which
deprives the protesters of a reason to fight because some of their demands are
already met," Kekenovski says.

As for the fact that every protest acquires partisan dimensions and is
immediately libeled as being organized by a given party, Kekenovski says that
this is due to our undeveloped awareness of participative political culture.

"In our country, the leaders seek servile culture, a culture of vassals and
supporters. This is instrumentalization and an attempt to make everyone think
alike, while tarnishing the opponents as traitors. This is why, regardless of
who organizes the protests, they are always denoted as the rivals' protests,"
Kekenovski explains.

Klekovski, for his part, believe that all the protests are political, but we may
argue whether or not they are partisan.

"In my view, all the protests and other forms of civic activism, even those on
the improvement of the cycling infrastructure, are political. All of them are
civil, but in some way political, too. We are a small country, so every protest
resembles a demand of a given party. In my view, the most important thing is
whether the demands are legitimate, whether they are attainable, and whether the
public can be convinced of their necessity. It is not disputable whether there
are party activists at certain protests because we are a small country, so an
activist can certainly appear at a protest. What is important here is the core
of the protest organizers to be independent and for their arguments and demands
to be justified," Klekovski concludes,

Source: Nova Makedonija, Skopje, in Macedonian 2 Dec 14 p 2

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                   24*7 News

                              June 28, 2013 Friday

Is Morsi Government at brink of Army Intervention?

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: Bahrain


Bahrain, June 28 -- Planned opposition protests on 30 June, the start of Ramadan
on 9 July, and ongoing fuel and power shortages are converging to produce severe
risks of violent protests in Cairo and other urban centres, in turn raising
risks of Army intervention against the Morsi government, according to IHS
assessment.

The opposition's collection of 15 million signatures against President Morsi
indicates unprecedented unity and a probable turnout of hundreds of thousands
nationwide at protests planned for 30 June. Counter-protests by tens of
thousands of Islamists and Salafis are also likely on that date, involving
severe risks of violence between protesters using Molotov cocktails, knives and
occasionally small arms. Smaller protests and counter-protests are also likely
in the run-up to 30 June.

Westerners caught up in Salafi demonstrations are at high risk of attack; during
opposition protests, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nationals are at highest
risk.

In Cairo, high risk locations include the Nile Corniche area; 6 October, Kasr
al-Nile and 15 May Bridges; Tahrir, Rab'a al-Adawiya, Abbasiya Squares; and the
Interior Ministry and Maspiro buildings.

"Public squares, mosques, police stations, governorate buildings, and party and
union offices are high risk areas in Suez City, Alexandria, Ismailiya, Port
Said, Luxor, Rafah, Mahalla al-Kubra, Shibeen al-Kom and other urban centres.

"The closure of the Suez Canal is very unlikely. Aviation and port worker unions
joining the Tamarrod campaign, or a resumption of customs worker strikes, would
be the main indicators for disruptions to port and airport operations."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from 24*7 News. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                   Copyright 2013 www.twentyfoursevennews.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday

Koirala not in favor of protest against govt

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Sept. 29 -- Nepali Congress (NC) leader Sujata Koirala has stood
against the protest programmes that the opposition parties have decided to stage
against the government .

Koirala said that there was no need of staging any protest against the
government . Opposition parties, including the NC and CPN-UML, are scheduled to
unveil their protest programmes on Monday.

Speaking at the Reporters Club in the Capital on Saturday, Koirala claimed that
Nepali citizens would not support such protest . She was of the view that the
party leadership should press for consensus rather than staging the protest .
Koirala said that the party leadership had not consulted her regarding the
protest programmes.

Koirala maintained that Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai cannot stay in the
power given that the political and constitutional deadlocks were not solved and
there was no full budget in the country.

Saying that the president should take necessary steps to extricate the country
from crisis, Koirala said that a new prime minister should be appointed by the
president as the political parties have failed to form the consensus government
. Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday

BSP stage statewide agitation against petrol hike

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, May 31 -- Initiating a political war against Congress-led UPA
Government, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) would stage statewide agitation
against petrol hike on Tuesday, party spokesman said on Monday.

"Senior ministers, legislators and party co-ordinators would take part in the
protest that would be held at all the district headquarters.

Even ministers have been asked to attend these anti-petrol hike protest," the
spokesman said.

In state capital the protest would be led by one of the senior most ministers in
Mayawati cabinet Nasimuddin Siddiqui who will address the party workers in a
meeting in Chowk. Rural Development Minister Dadoo Prasad and Finance Minister
Lalji Verma would lead the protest in Banda and Ambedkar Nagar respectively.

The price rise protest would be held in all the 72 district headquarters. Chief
Minister Mayawati has already asked her party leaders to take part in these
protest in full strength. "Expose the anti-people and anti-dalit policies of the
Congress government," Chief Minister had told the senior party leaders while
issuing guidelines for this protest meeting.

The BSP plans to start nationwide protest against price rise. In her last karya
karta sammelan in Chandigarh she had asked party workers to get ready for
protest in Northern parts of the country. "After UP, protest will start in other
states too," party spokesman said. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 146

LENGTH: 219  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.  According to details, the teachers
of the Public School Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration against the
administration of the school. The members of the SPLA under the leadership of
Gul Hassan Mirjat and others also staged a protest demonstration in favor of
their teachers of the Public School Hyderabad and provision of facilities for
the college teachers of Sindh. A woman namely Dadli W/o Sahib Dino Khaskheli,
resident of Manjhand district Jamshoro staged a protest demonstration for arrest
of the killers of her son Hazoor Bux Khaskheli.

A social worker known as Comrade Anwar Mallah, resident of Radhan district Dadu
staged a protest demonstration against the open sale of drugs in his area. The
retired employees of PTCL Kotri under the leadership of Abdulllah Jakhro and
others staged a protest demonstration for the removal of the occupation of
government quarters. The traders of Hyderabad and religious organizations
recorded a protest demonstration against the desecration of the Holy Quran by a
blasphemous pastor in the state of Florida.

The employees of the Building Control Authority Hyderabad staged a protest
demonstration for remerging of their department in HDA.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Thousands abandon Assad and join demos to demand freedom

BYLINE: Syria Nicholas; Hugh Tomlinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 237 words


Anti-regime protests intensified in southern Syria yesterday as thousands of
demonstrators took to the streets of Deraa for the funeral of a young man killed
on Sunday by security forces. In the largest protests since the President,
Bashar Assad, took power 11 years ago, the crowd chanted: "God, Syria and
Freedom," a twist on the customary "God, Syria and Bashar."

Hundreds of protesters were also believed to be gathering in Jassem, also in
southern Syria, where they held a sit-in. There were unconfirmed reports of
protests in Aleppo, Syria's largest city. At least five people have been killed
by Syrian security forces in Deraa since Friday, when protests began after the
arrest of youths for writing anti-regime graffiti.

Meanwhile, Kuwaiti naval vessels arrived off Bahrain yesterday to join the Arab
taskforce supporting the Gulf kingdom in suppressing anti-Government protests.

Saudi Arabia contributed 1,000 troops to help to put down the Shia-led protests
last week. The United Arab Emirates has sent 600 police officers. Bahrain
opposition parties are demanding that the Government should expel all foreign
troops before talks can begin on a political solution to the crisis, in which at
least 16 people have been killed.

In Iran, the opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi have
returned home after three weeks in Tehran's Heshmatieh prison, but they and
their wives remain under house arrest.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The protests began in Deraa after youths were arrested over graffiti

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Iranian Government News

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

Anti-government protests in Morocco planned

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 176 words


The IRIB has issued following news:

Moroccan authorities have okayed an anti-government protest being planned on the
popular social networking site Facebook, a media report said.

The media report said several Moroccan youth movements have announced on
Facebook that they are planning to organise an Egypt-style anti-government
protest Feb 20, a move apparently welcomed by the government.

"We intend to reassure those who are organising protests on the internet that
this is an entirely normal thing and is part of the democratic life of Morocco
," local newspaper Hespress quoted Telecommunications Minister Khaled al-Nasiri
as saying.

The protest will counter a rally planned this Sunday by government supporters,
which is also being organised on Facebook.

Anti-government protests began in Egypt last week aimed at ousting its President
Hosni Mubarak from power and mass protests have also been taking place in Yemen
against its President Ali Abdullah Saleh , who has been in power for 30 years.

For more information please contact: info@plusmediasolutions.com[#x3002]

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: 752


              Copyright 2011 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                              286 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Derry Edition

Queen's students protest over fees

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 340 words


STUDENTS from Queen's University were among thousands across the UK to stage
protests against plans to hike tuition fees.

Up to 60 students were involved in the demonstration outside the
vice-Chancellor's office at the south Belfast campus yesterday.

The protest organised by the pressure group FEE (Free Education for Everybody)
began at around 1pm and ended peacefully after about three hours.

The students were seeking a meeting with vice-Chancellor Peter Gregson to
discuss fears about proposals to raise student fees to £9,000 a year.

Chris Donnelly (21), a first-year history student from Dungannon, was among the
protesters.

"We had a meeting on Monday night and decided to go down the protest route
against the vice-Chancellor Peter Gregson," he said.

"We are totally opposed to the Browne Review, which is the proposals to raise
the tuition fees up to £9,000.

"We came down to highlight that students at Queen's are resolutely opposed to
the rise in tuition fees.

"It was a peaceful protest, there has been no vandalism.

"It is a stewarded protest. Security guards are not allowing people outside the
building in."

QUB Students' Union president Gareth McGreevy, however, said it was an
independent protest.

"The Students' Union acknowledges the right for peaceful protest and the choice
to do so.

"The protest was independent to any action currently ongoing by QUBSU."

And Mr McGreevy added: "We will continue their campaign, as well as negotiating
with politicians, with the university, students and all stakeholders in relation
to the current higher education funding debate."

A spokesman for QUB said the protest ended quickly.

"There was small protest by a number of young people," the spokesman revealed.

"Professor Tony Gallagher, pro-vice-Chancellor, addressed the students, listened
to their concerns, and promised to report them back to the university's
management board."

CAPTION: Students unfurl a banner outside the vice-Chancellor's office at
Queen's University yesterday during their demonstration against cuts ARTHUR
ALLISON/PACEMAKER

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Commercial Motor

                                 April 15, 2010

Pre-election fuel protests likely, warns TransAction

BYLINE: Christopher Walton

SECTION: THIS WEEK

LENGTH: 258 words


christopher.walton@rbi.co.uk

Pressure group Trans-Action has warned that a protest over the rising cost of
fuel could be staged close to next month's general election.

According to a statement on TransAction's website, "protests against the recent
2.5p/litre fuel duty and subsequent price rises are being co-ordinated around
the country", adding that many front-line organisers from the protests in 2000
are involved.

CM understands that interest in a fuel protest has been shown by a group of
haulage contractors in the North-East, as well as Farmers for Action, and
TransAction is conducting a survey of its members about potential protest
action.

Mike Presneill, MD of Presneill Tipper Contractors and spokesman for
TransAction, says that, given the current price of fuel and the level of duty, a
protest would be more than justified.

"Whatever we do would be legal protest action," he says. "People are indicating
that they have something in mind. Whatever it is would not be a re-run of what
we saw in 2007, with firms coming down to London."

Farmers for Action was unavailable for comment.

Geoff Dunning, chief executive of the Road Haulage Association, says it is
essential that fuel duty lobbying targets the right people in the next
government and voters should have a clearer idea of where the major parties
stood.

He adds: "Labour say they will increase duty over the next couple of years,
while the Tories want to introduce a Fair Fuel Stabiliser, which seems to have
some merits, but stabilising at what price?"

     ·    See p10 for more on fuel costs.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2010 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1479

LENGTH: 282  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Friday. According to details, members of the Bheel community under the
leadership of Sajan Bheel, Arab Bheel and others, residents of Umerkot staged a
protest demonstration against the actions of an influential landlord namely
Mehar Panhwar.

The people of the Arain community under the leadership of Nazir Hussain Arain,
Iftikhar, Ashfaq and others, residents of Chamber district Tando Allahyar staged
a protest demonstration against the registration of alleged fake cases against
them. The PPP workers of Tando Jam under the leadership of Altaf Hussain Unar
and others continued their protest demonstration against the local party
leadership.

A man namely Baloch Noonari along with his 7 children continued his protest
demonstration for the provision of financial assistance. A woman namely Ambar
Shah along with her uncle namely Ashiq Shah staged a protest demonstration
against her husband for ejecting her from their house. The reinstated employees
of the Sui Southern Gas Company Hyderabad chapter under the leadership of
Zulfiqar Qadri and others staged a protest demonstration for issuance of the
posting orders and withheld salaries.

A youth namely Hyder Ali Joyo, resident of Khanpur City in the Punjab staged a
protest demonstration for the provision of financial assistance. A woman namely
Ayesha w/o Moladad Panhwar, resident of Mehar district Dadu staged a protest
demonstration for the issuance of the withheld salaries of her husband. The
employees of a private bank under the leadership of Altaf Shah, Haji Anwar,
Aftab Khaskheli and others staged a protest demonstration in favour of their
demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                            October 19, 2008 Sunday

Ruling and opposition groups stage protests

LENGTH: 255 words


Thiruvananthapuram:  Kerala's ruling Left Democratic Front government and the
opposition United Democratic Front both staged protest sit-ins on Friday,
creating a new record of sorts in political protests.

While chief minister V.S. Achuthananandan and his cabinet ministers staged their
protest in Delhi against what they called the 'neglect of the state' by the
United Progressive Alliance at the centre, the Congress-led opposition UDF
staged their protest here, calling the LDF protest in Delhi a farce.

Opposition leader Oommen Chandy, addressing fellow Congressmen who were
protesting here, said the LDF government's protest in Delhi was nothing but 'a
political gimmick'. He said the LDF government had no moral right to stage a
protest after having increased the burden on the common man in Kerala through a
series of price hikes.

Water and power tariff, milk price, apart from the cost of daily provisions and
vegetables in the state had gone up in recent months.

The chief minister and his cabinet colleagues are, however, blaming the centre
for the current predicament of the state. The protest in Delhi is aimed at
highlighting what the LDF government feels is an apathy towards the state by the
centre, particularly in slashing power and ration rice allocations, besides not
adequately compensating the state when natural calamities strike.

While the government and opposition were both holding protests, there was also
criticism regarding the use of public money by the ministers for their trip to
Delhi to stage the protest.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2008 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 09, 2003

Jail visits cancelled over roof protest;

BYLINE: By Simon Doyle

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 366 words


VISITS to two wings of Maghaberry prison were cancelled yesterday as four
inmates continued their rooftop protest.

The Northern Ireland Office (NIO) said prison visits to Bush and Roe houses
could not go ahead yesterday while the protests took place.

However visits to other wings in the prison went ahead as normal.

Prisoners linked to the Real IRA and Continuity IRA are now in the fourth week
of a 'dirty protest' in a bid to win segregation from other inmates.

The latest rooftop protest continued as a British government-appointed review
team visited the jail as part of its inquiries into staff and inmates' safety
concerns.

Three inmates were still on the roof of Bush House and another was on the roof
of Roe House. The three on Bush House yesterday flew banners and waved to people
in the visitors' carpark.

Marian Price, of the Irish Republican Prisoners Welfare Association (IRPWA),
said she welcomed any protest that called for segregation at the jail but added
that she did not know if any of the protesters were dissident republicans.

The IRPWA was due to stage a protest in the centre of Coalisland, Co Tyrone,
yesterday to "raise awareness of the deteriorating situation at Maghaberry".

Meanwhile parts of Belfast city centre were sealed off yesterday morning as
police negotiated with a man who claimed that he was making a rooftop protest
about conditions at Maghaberry.

Police were informed that the man had climbed on top of the roof of a
threestorey building on the corner of Gresham Street and North Street at about
1.30am yesterday.

Witnesses claimed that the man removed a number of slates from the roof of the
premises and threw them to the ground.

Large crowds gathered outside Belfast Central Library as the Fire Service,
police and ambulance crews arrived at the scene.

Harold Noblett, of Noblett's on North Street, said the incident had angered many
city centre businesses.

"This has caused so much disruption in both this street and over a wider area.

There are a lot of people angry about this, " he said.

The man came down from the roof shortly after 9am and was arrested on suspicion
of attempted burglary.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRISON PROTEST: Maghaberry prisoners continue their rooftop protest
yesterday in a bid for segregation within the jail PICTURE: Gavan Caldwell
PUBLIC PROTEST: A man makes a rooftop protest on Belfast's North Street over
conditions at Maghaberry PICTURE: Alan Lewis

                     Copyright 2003 The Irish News Limited


                              292 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    July 30, 2003 Wednesday Ontario Edition

Peaceful protest always best

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 214 words


200 arrested at WTO protest

July 29.

As a society, we must support protest as a healthy expression of our Canadian
democracy. There exists a difference, however, between property destruction and
peaceful protest. I work on the same street that the protests occurred.

The assertion that violence against property is justified because the Gap is a
multinational corporation that runs sweatshops is fallacious. Leaders such as
Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. were popular practitioners and pioneers of the
so-called non-violent resistance movement. What happened to leaders such as
these in today's various protest movements?

While no one can lay claim to the same stature as the previous leaders, one must
ask: Is the leadership of their opponents too strong? The answer is no. The
leadership of the movements are weak. When the protest organizers allow the line
to be blurred between the healthy expression of democracy and the carnage of
surrounding buildings and vehicles, they put into question the very legitimacy
of many well-reputed protest groups, such as Greenpeace and Sierra Club.

That's too bad. Apparently, the protest groups that lay claim to the higher
moral ground have sacrificed it for negative press coverage.

John Gravel, Pierrefonds, Que.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              293 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                     June 16, 2001 Saturday Ontario Edition

Algeria

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 208 words


PROTEST TOLL RISES

Algerian authorities yesterday raised the death toll from a massive
anti-government protest, saying four people were killed during the rioting on
Thursday. Journalists estimated up to 1 million people took part in the march.
The dead were all hit

by a bus fleeing a depot

that had been set on fire. About 365 people were injured.


PIRATE KIDNAPPERS

Hoping to rake in huge ransoms like those reportedly paid to Muslim guerrillas
in the Philippines, pirates have attacked several vessels and taken 15
Malaysians captive in recent days. "The pirates think they can also make big
money by holding people for ransom," Jalaluddin Abdul Rahman, deputy commander
of Malaysia's marine police, said yesterday.


MAD COW DESPITE BAN

British officials yesterday confirmed a case of mad-cow disease in an animal
born after controls on feed were introduced to eradicate the illness. The cow
was born May 27, 1997, almost 10 months after mammal meat and bone products were
banned from animal feed.


'NOISY' TEEN SHOT DEAD

A 72-year-old man shot dead a 14-year-old girl and wounded another because they
were "making noise" as they played in the courtyard by his window in Rio de
Janeiro, police said yesterday.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              294 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday
                              Business Day Edition

The limits of protest

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 181  words


The limits of protest

The universities have to deal with protesting students in much the same way as a
company would deal with striking workers. The universities are faced with a
demand they can not accede to. There is nothing more that can be done by
negotiation.

Like strikers, the students have the constitutional right to protest. The right
only extends, however, to the person making the decision to protest. No one who
decides to protest may disrupt a lecture, threaten or force someone to protest.

At the point when the protest is no longer functional, and particularly when it
has forced the management to suspend operations, then the management must issue
the protesting students with ultimatums. Management may demand that all students
return to lectures by a proposed date and cease their protest. Those who choose
not to abide by the ultimatum must leave the university campus and residences.
If they don't, they can be arrested and face charges.

There is no inalienable right to protest in any manner the individual deems fit.

Sara Gon

Research Fellow, SA Institute of Race Relations

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             April 22, 2016 Friday

Federal Alliance unveils protest programs

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, April 22 -- The Federal Alliance, a loose coalition of the agitating
seven Madhes-based parties and other ethnic political parties, on Friday
unveiled its future protest programs.

According to the protest plan, the alliance will picket Singha Durbar, the main
administrative building of the country, on May 14.

The meeting of the alliance held at the Tinkune-based central party office of
the Federal Socialist Forum Nepal (FSFN) on Friday decided to resume its
protests from the last week of April and unveiled protest programs to be held
over a period of 15 days. The protests will be organized in all three
geographical regions --Tarai, Hill and Mountain.

As per the protest plan, the alliance will submit protest note on April 27 and
put up black flags at government offices on April 29.

Likewise, protest assemblies will be held in Butwal, Panchthar, Rautahat,
Birgunj, Nepalgunj, Janakpur, Palpa, Illam, Surkhet, Dhangadhi, among other
districts.

After organizing five months long protest programs in Tarai to express
dissatisfaction over the content of the new constitution, the United Democratic
Madhesi Front (UDMF) made a broader alliance with other ethnic political parties
to form the Federal Alliance and announced the nation-wide protest programs.

"It is necessary to inform people from the hills on how and why the constitution
has discriminated against the marginalized people. The UDMF has not only been
raising the issues of Madhes but also the common issues of marginalized people
whether they are from the hills or the mountains," said Upendra Yadav, the
chairman of the Federal Socialist Forum Nepal.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

Fresh protests sans border blockade: Mahato

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, April 13 -- As United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) has warned of
fresh rounds of protests, one of the influential leaders of the front said that
the fresh protests will not include border blockade.

Speaking at an interaction program in the capital on Wednesday, UDMF leader
Rajendra Mahato said that the fresh protests starting this Monday sans border
blockades.

"We will not stage any protests that affects the lives of normal people ,"
Mahato added, "However, our fresh protests will be Singhadurbar-centric."

He also claimed that the fresh protests will be a nationwide not just in Madhes
districts. "The fresh protests will be focused on piling pressure on the
government not the citizens," he said.

Mahato said the earlier protests that include border blockade fail to address
people's demands but rather affected the normal lives of the people.

"We will keep on protesting unless the government heeds our demands," Mahato
warned.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                 March 25, 2015

Anti-Jega Protest - Adams Defends OPC Lagos Rally

LENGTH: 281 words


LAGOS--Barely eight days, after its controversial protest in Lagos, for the
removal of Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Prof.
Attahiru Jega, the Convener, Coalition of Concerned Nigerians, CCN and National
Coordinator, Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC, Otunba Gani Adams, Tuesday, fired back
at the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying his members never destroyed the
party's campaign bill boards and posters as claimed.

Since that protest which saw members of the OPC and other pro-Jonathan groups
marching from the 7up bus-stop of old toll gate along the Lagos-Ibadan
Expressway to the National Stadium in Surulere, several APC chieftains have
repeatedly accused the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, of plot to use the
OPC to forment trouble in Lagos before, during and after the March 28 and April
11 elections.

It is against this backdrop that the OPC leader, at an interactive session on
the general election, in Lagos, lashed out at the APC, saying the photograph
shown by one of the major television stations in its reportage of the protest
was a file photo of a protest rally by the Dr. Fredrick Fasehun-led OPC to
protest a threat by Boko Haram to attack the west on December 12, 2011.

Adams also described allegations that the OPC has been paid to disrupt
Saturday's election as a long list of fallacious and unsubstantiated allegations
against his person by the propaganda arm of the APC.

He said: "Our protest on March 16, 2015 was very peaceful. Against the claim by
the APC that that protest was violent, I stand here to tell you that since the
June 12, 1993 protest, that protest was one of the most peaceful protests I have
ever witnessed in Nigeria."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

PTI Karachi to block Shahra-e-Faisal

LENGTH: 212  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


To show its street power, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf has announced to stage a
protest sit-in on Shara-e-Faisal, a major boulevard in Karachi from Saturday.

"We have decided to launch a massive protest tsunami, which if the government
tried to stop, would be itself responsible for untoward consequences. We will
come out in full power tomorrow, come what may", a statement issued by the party
said.

According to sources, PTI core committee, in its meeting held, has finalized
protest demonstrations in major cities including Karachi as an extension to the
anti-government protest demonstration in Islamabad's 'Red Zone' after the party
leader Imran Khan's announcement.

"We will stage mega protest demonstrations in Lahore, Faisalabad, Multan, and
Karachi tomorrow (Saturday)", party leader Imran Khan told his workers staging
anti-government sit-in in front of Parliament House.

Laying out their protest plans, the PTI said in addition to Shara-e-Faisal
Karachi, rallies/sit-ins would be staged in Faisalabad's Zila Council Chowk,
Multan's Nawan Shehr Chowk, and Lahore to start with.

Shara-e-Faisal is one of the main thoroughfares in the metropolis and most of
the national and multinational companies' offices, schools, shopping plazas,
banks, and institutes are close to it.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Airline operators plan to intensify protest

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 255  words


KATHMANDU: Airline Operators Association of Nepal (AOAN) has planned to further
intensify its protest programme as the government has failed to address its
demand to reduce the recent hike in the aviation fuel charge for domestic
airlines.

"Today is the fourth day of our protest programme and we will announce our new
protest programme on October 4," said spokesperson of AOAN Ghanshyam Acharya.
According to him, the future course of action will be more strict and it will
carry on with its protests unless the government fulfils its demand.

The Ministry of Culture, Tourism, and Civil Aviation has requested AOAN to
withdraw its protest programme. However, representatives from AOAN said that
they will not withdraw their programme and instead intensify the protest.

"The tourism ministry recently issued a formal request letter, asking AOAN to
withdraw its entire protest programme, but we are not going to withdraw our
programme unless our demands are fulfilled," said Acharya. The executive meeting
of AOAN, on September 26, had announced a series of protest programmes, which
started from September 29 at all airline operator's offices.

As part of the protest, staff of domestic airline companies have already started
wearing a black ribbon at work. According to AOAN, the tourism ministry had
failed to address the issues regarding the increase in the aviation fuel price.

On September 11, the committee had submitted a memorandum to the ministry
requesting it to take back the decision of the recent fuel price hike within 15
days.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

Half of Turks believe Gezi protests were aimed at creating chaos in society

LENGTH: 409  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Half of the respondents of a recent public survey said they
believe the demonstrations that began in late May in protest of government plans
to demolish Gezi Park in Istanbul's Taksim Square were intended to create
disorder in society and create trouble for the government.



The survey, conducted by the Pollmark polling company, showed that 51.2 percent
of respondents believe the goal of the demonstrations was to create chaos in
society and put the government in a difficult position, while 33.3 percent said
they think the demonstrators were exercising their democratic rights in the
protests and that they support them.

Pollmark's survey was carried out between July 9 and 18 through face-to-face
interviews with 5,135 people. The results of the survey, which were published in
the Sabah daily on Monday, were also presented to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, according to the daily.

A full 51.5 percent of respondents said they believe the police did not use
excessive force against demonstrators during the protests, while 39.5 percent
disagreed with that statement.

The protests that began in Taksim spread nationwide after the police forcibly
ejected protesters from the park. Five people including a policeman were killed
and thousands of others were injured during the weeks of protests.

Among those surveyed, 48.6 percent said they were disturbed that the
demonstrators had turned protests that began out of environmental concerns into
anti-government protests, while 31,8 percent said the demonstrations had a just
cause.

When asked about their views on how the government managed the protests, 42.2
percent said the government managed the Gezi protests well and 41.2 voiced the
opposite view.

With regard to the support given by the Republican People's Party (CHP) to the
protesters, 59.4 percent said they disapprove while 26.4 percent they approve
the CHP's support for the protests.

To another question asking about the general performance of the government, 55.7
percent said they find it successful; 37.3 percent said it is not successful.

When asked for which party they would vote if general elections were held today,
51.9 percent responded that they would vote for the ruling Justice and
Development Party (AK Party), 23.5 percent said for the CHP and 13.6 percent
said for the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), while 7.4 percent said for the
pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party (BDP).

(Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                           February 2, 2013 Saturday

Cavelossim protest not lodged as per GFA rules, insists Vasco

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: PANJIM


PANJIM, Feb. 2 -- There is no question of upholding Cavelossim's protest against
Vasco Club on the question of fielding the alleged ineligible player in their
Goa Professional League match in November last, since the protest was not lodged
as per the official rules of the competition, divulged a Vasco club official,
here, Friday.

The GFA's Executive Committee had relied on Articles 18, 19 and 20 in deciding
that the player fielded by Vasco was not eligible to play for them. However,
Vasco pointed out that Article 18 itself states: "Protest against the
eligibility of any player(s) shall be lodged according to Articles 40 and 41 by
the protesting team with the zonal secretary/match commissioner or his duly
appointed representative or the GFA office at Panjim accompanied by a protest
fee of Rs 1000."

Vasco stressed that Cavelossim had contravened Article 40 and had instead lodged
the protest one day after the match. Article 40 - signing match report from by
teams - reads: "After the conclusion of every match in the official
competitions, the captains of both the teams or the managers of both the teams
shall sign on the referee's match report form, indicating therein whether they
intend to protest the result of the match. If the team expresses the desire to
protest the manager shall also briefly specify the reasons for lodging the
protest. When intention to protest has been expressed by a team
captain/manager/official as detailed in this Article, the referee of the match
shall take immediate steps to ensure that his match report is received by the
zonal secretary/organizing secretary/match commissioner with 24 hours from the
time of conclusion of the concerned match. Failure to do so will make the
referee liable to suspension of upto three years."

Then, Article 41 talks about lodging of protest - "Intention to protest having
been expressed under the stipulation of Article 40, the concerned team must
compulsorily follow up by submitting the protest in resume to the general
secretary, GFA/zonal secretary/organizing secretary before the closure of the
GFA office on the next day of the match. The resume shall further be confirmed
with a formal protest lodged in writing, accompanied by a protest fee of Rs 1000
and hand delivered to GFA secretariat in Panjim not later than 24 hours after
the conclusion of the concerned match.

The Vasco Club official emphasized also on Article 42 - protest null and void.
"Intention to protest not having been indicated on the referee's match report
form, or resume of protest not having been lodged within the specified time
limit, shall each jointly or severally render the protest null and void, and it
shall be rejected outright by the Executive Committee."

Since Cavelossim did not show their intention to protest in the first place,
there is no question of the protest even being entertained, argued the Vasco
Club official.

Having also indicated that one had also to go by previous judgements and
well-established precedents, the Vasco official remarked that under Article 3 -
spirit and principle - "The official competitions are governed in spirit and
principle by the laws of the game and Statutes and Rules and regulations of
FIFA, AIFF and GFA."

Doubts have also been expressed as to why the protest was referred to the
Players Status Committee as Article 19 - decision on ineligible players -
states: "Protest under Article 18 shall be decided finally by the Executive
Committee or by a sub-committee which has been appointed by the GFA under
provisions of GFA Constitution. The Players Status Committee is a duly formed
sub-committee and as such, it was asked to take up the matter. But yesterday, it
was the Executive Committee that decided on the matter at the extraordinary
meeting as the Players Status Committee decided that it was an administrative
matter.

Obviously, the matter involves legalities and one can now understand better why
every club needs to have a legal division as part of the professional
administrative set-up. Even matters concerning the contract with the players
demand a legal outlook, as it is now being pointed out that there cannot be
five-month contracts with the players.

In any case, like what the AFC has been demanding from I-League clubs, all our
local clubs will also have ultimately to follow some licencing criteria at the
State level, at least for Pro League, in as much as there cannot be a football
club without a minimum football ground/stadia with an administrative set-up at
least. That's the way for introducing professionalism in a gradual manner.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 24, 2013

'Successful use of nonviolent protest not held after Gandhi, Vinoba and
Jayprakash'

BYLINE: FP NEWS SERVICE Ujjain

LENGTH: 322  words


Ujjain: Government elected through peaceful ways has right to throttle public
protest by using violent ways. Non- violence should be considered as a means in
honest public protest. We should understand the limits of nonviolent public
protest. It is required that leaders of protests should have principle
expression of non- violence.

Mass heroes should follow the principles of allegiance along with non-
violence.. This was expressed by chief guest senior journalist Shravan Garg
during the valedictory ceremony of two- day national seminar on ' Public
Protests in India and Their Limitations' organised at Gandhi Hall of Madhav
College here on Wednesday. Garg said non- violent protest could run for longer
time and one couls not fight with the state and the government with violence.

There should have right direction of protests. Maoists have been creating terror
in 83 districts of nine states of the nation. Hundreds of soldiers are
victimised by this kind of violence.

Public expects transition. Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejariwal can not bring
transition in the nation. There are Jain seers who keep fast for days more than
Anna does.

Special guest Vikas Dave said blood reloaded with feelings of public protests
runs in our veins. Movement of emergency was a massive protest after
Independence. 35 justices were directly related with this and all opposition
parties. Today we need such kind of movements.

Chairing the valedictory ceremony, Dr Satish Gaud said why we need public
protests in democratic countries? When constitutional institutions, parliament,
government, political parties, peoples' representatives are unable to fulfill
their responsibilities, then the public has to launch protests.

Seminar director Prof Brahmdeep Alune conducted the programme while Dr Mahendra
Kumar Jain proposed the vote of thanks.

Senior Journalist Shravan Garg addressing during concluding ceremony of National
Seminar in Ujjain on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 181

LENGTH: 251  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Sukkur on Saturday.

According to details, the sacked employees of the Education Department Sukkur
staged a protest demonstration against the Director Colleges Sukkur Abdul Hameed
Chanar for illegally appointing 100 employees and issuing show cause notices to
their 493 colleagues. They demanded of the concerned authorities to take notice
of the matter to provide them justice, otherwise they have threatened to
accelerate their protest circle.

The residents of Ubauro recorded a protest demonstration outside the DIG Office
for arrest of their community youth Shahid Hussain s/o Imam Bux Solangi's
murderers. A newlywed couple of Mehar, Dadu district staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of protection to them.

The members of the All Pakistan Clerks' Association under the leadership of
Maqbool Mahar, Shamshad Dayo, Naeem Malik and others recorded a protest
demonstration for the restoration of the employees' quota and provision of other
facilities to the clerks' community.

The contract based employees of the NADRA took out a protest rally for the
regularization of their services. The leaders told the media men that they are
working in the NADRA since past ten years but the concerned authorities have
still not taken any step to regularize their services. The Laghari community
people of Saleh Pat staged a protest demonstration against the arrest of their
community men namely Gul Bahar and Nisar Laghari.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Ukrainian think-tank says social protests gaining momentum

LENGTH: 423 words


Text of report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 17 November: Socioeconomic protests in Ukraine are turning into a mass
country-wide campaign with sharp criticism of the authorities, an analytical
review received by the UNIAN news agency read.

The report read that the authorities' reaction to the protest is also changing,
according to a repressive scenario. The most popular response by the state was
detention and arrest. Court bans on rallies were also often used and police
hindered protest attempts.

At the same time, the vast majority of protests (87 per cent) over the last
month were carried out in an absolutely legal and peaceful way - in the form of
rallies, pickets, marches, demonstrations and tent cities. Compared to the data
for the first 12 months of monitoring, the share of confrontational actions
(clashes, storming [of buildings], road blocking etc) was much smaller, 7 per
cent compared to 26 per cent. Only 6 per cent of protests in October this year
could be classified as use of force (these were mostly scuffles).

The analytical review read that, while citizens most always protested in a
peaceful way, the state often used repressive measures against them. For
instance, there were 14 repressive actions per 100 protests. However, in the
first 12 months of monitoring [September 2009-September 2010] this ratio was 12
out of 100.

In response to the exacerbation of social problems in Ukraine and an increase in
antagonism between the [ruling and working] classes, the authorities resort to
use of force more frequently. "According to this litmus paper, it is not
difficult to see whose problems they are solving and the interests of which
class they are defending. Paraphrasing a well-known proverb, when the ruling
class does not take interest in the life of ordinary people, then ordinary
people take interest in the life of oligarchs," the review read.

When calculating the number of protests, every day of multi-day protests was
calculated as a separate protest. The results on the number of protests and
repression could slightly change, because the media report about some protests
with a delay.

The centre for society studies is an independent non-profit research centre for
social problems and mass protests.

The centre registered all protests since September 2009, positive or negative
reaction by the state or other objects of protests in Ukraine on the basis of
regular monitoring of about 170 national, regional and activists' media.

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1108 gmt 17 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 196

LENGTH: 213  words


Different protests were staged by people in favor of their demands outside the
Hyderabad press club on Monday.

According to details, the members of the HDA Mehran Workers' Union led by Insaf
Ali Lashari and others staged a protest in favor of their demands. The retired
employees of the PTCL Kotri led by Abdullah Jakhoro and others staged a protest
against non-issuance of their pension. The members of the Hyderabad Action
committee led by Ashraf Noorani, Ramzan and others staged protest in favor their
demands.

The people of the Bhatti community, residents of Lal Khan Bhatti near Tando
Ghulam Ali led by Haji Ismail Bhatti and others staged a protest against
occupation of their lands. Employees of defunct SRTC led by Haji Ghulam Mohammad
Dahar and others staged a protest against non-payment of their dues. The retired
employees the Taluka Municipal Hyderabad led by Abdul Ghaffar and others staged
a protest for issuance of their pensions.

The residents of Tando Ghulam Hyder led by Mushtaq Rind and others staged a
protest against influential men of their area who tried to occupy their lands.
The activists of the Jafferia Students' Organization Hyderabad led by Allama
Ashiq Hussain, Maulana Ghulam Shabbir and others staged protest rally against
America and Israel.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1607

LENGTH: 285  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people outside the Hyderabad
Press Club on Sunday in favour of their demands.

According to details, the members of National Labour Federation District
Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration against the authorities of EOBI for
depriving them of their rights. A newlywed couple namely Kainaat, resident of
Sanghar and Ehsan Ali, resident of Bhitshah staged protest demonstration for the
provision of protection. A man namely Ghulam Nabi Barejo, resident of district
Matiari staged a protest demonstration against his brothers for not giving him
share from his father's property. Sindh Professors and Lecturers Association
(SPLA) under the leadership of Yaqoob Chandio and others continued their protest
demonstration against the transfers of their colleagues. A man namely Waqar
Haneef Mallah, resident of district Badin staged a protest demonstration for the
recovery of his kidnapped wife namely Parveen.

A man namely Khair Muhammad Chauhan, resident of Kotri district Jamshoro
continued his protest for arrest of the killers of his son Sadiq Chauhan. A man
namely Sajid Ali Khawaja, resident of Hyderabad continued his protest
demonstration against the Ismailia Council Credit Societies for committing a
fraud to him. A man namely Mehar Ali, resident of Sanjhoro district Sanghar
staged a protest demonstration for the removal of his agriculture lands'
occupation. The people of different areas of Hyderabad including Paka Qila,
Islamabad Colony, Hussainabad, Gadi Khata, Hyder Chowk, Hali Road, Sabzi Mandi,
Tilk Charhi, Sehrish Nagar, Latifabad No-2 and other areas staged protest
demonstrations against the prolonged outages and shortage of drinking water.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio & Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1470

LENGTH: 342  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the local people in favour of
their demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, a man namely Saqib Ali Rind, resident of village Allahabad
staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his kidnapped wife. The
shopkeepers of Latifabad Unit No. 10 under the leadership of Dilshad Malik,
Naseer Ahmed, Kamran Khan and others staged a protest demonstration against a
builder of their area. The women, residents of Bihar Colony Kotri staged a
protest demonstration against an influential man for trying to occupy their
houses. A disabled employee of the Education Department district Badin namely
Doolih Darya Khan Jarwar along with his children staged a protest demonstration
for the issuance of his withheld salaries. The sacked employees of the Culture
and Tourism Department staged a protest demonstration for the reinstatement of
their services.

A woman namely Shrimati Kolhi, resident of Badin staged a protest against the
atrocities of her husband Mithan. A sacked employee of the Pingrio Sugar Mills
District Badin Namely Lakha Dino Soomro along with his children staged a protest
demonstration for the reinstatement of his service. A widow namely Samina
Laghari, resident of village Arab Laghari district Badin along with her mother
and children staged a protest for the arrest of the killers of her husband. The
women, residents of Talla Hyderabad including Samina, Sakina and others staged a
protest demonstration against non-issuance of BISP forms. The leaders and
workers of the Sindh Nationalist Progressive Alliance (SNPA) under the
leadership of Sachal Gopang, Roshan Buriro, Syed Alam Shah, Kher Muhammad Abro
and others staged a protest demonstration for the greater provincial autonomy to
the province of Sindh. The people of the Bhurgari community under the leadership
of Ghulam Nabi, Mohammad Yousif, Shahnawaz and others residents of Mirpur
Bathoro district Thatta staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the
killers of their community man.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday

15-party alliance to announce protests from mid-April

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, March 15 -- An alliance of 15 political parties demanding
identity-based provincial demarcation has decided to launch fresh protests to
pile pressure on the government to address their demands.

A meeting of the parties held at Federal Socialist Forum Nepal (FSFN) party
office in Tinkune, decided to launch nationwide protests from mid-April, FSFN
vice chairman Rajendra Shrestha said.

The protests will be similar to People's Movement in 2006, Shrestha said.

"The protests will be named as joint protests and will appeal all Madhesi,
janajatis and ethnic communities to participate in the protests," he added.

He further said that the protests will not cover a particular region but the
whole nation.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Minister justifies protest law because it was 'enacted a century ago'

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 227  words


Interim Justice Minister Ibrahim al-Heneidy has expressed his approval on the
protest law arguing, "It was enforced one century ago."

In an interview on Monday aired on the privately-owned Al-Hayah TV channel, the
minister justified the protest law, saying it is similar to Western countries,
the same ones that have decried the law."Many countries like France and US have
similar laws to organize protests. Its peoples agree on them," he added.

Though France and the United States have some laws regulating protests, they are
not as sweeping as the Egyptian protest law as they do not require permission
for all protests, nor do they effectively criminalize demonstrating without
permission.

Heneidy said there was a difference between organizing protests and confiscating
the right of protesting, which will not happen.

Recommendations by the National Council for Human Rights (NCHR) over amending
the law were considered, the minister said adding that they were sent to cabinet
for approval.

The law on terrorist entities have been concluded by the ministry, he said. It
will be submitted to the State Council. The law will be applied on whoever
resort to violence to promote specific ideas. It also stipulates seizure of
assets of terrorist entities, closing its headquarters and preventing its member
from practicing policy.

Edited translation from Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2014 Egypt Independent
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           December 13, 2014 Saturday

Pakistan: Staging protest Imran's constitutional right: Altaf

LENGTH: 137  words

DATELINE: LONDON


LONDON, Dec. 13 -- Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) chief Altaf Hussain Thursday
said it is Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf's (PTI) democratic and constitutional right
to stage protest demonstrations and sit-ins in the Karachi city.

According to a statement issued here, Altaf Hussain said his party respects
PTI's right to stage protests and sit-ins, urging the Imran Khan-led party to
keep its protest peaceful.

He further said every political and religious party reserves right to hold
protest demonstrations in any area of Karachi, adding that no political party is
believed to oppose PTI's sit-ins and protests in the megapolis

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

No police permission, but Kiss of Love will go on

SECTION: BENGALURU

LENGTH: 401 words


BENGALURU: Calling the Bengaluru police decision not allow the Kiss of Love
campaign against moral policing undemocratic, the organizers have decided to go
ahead with the protest.

"We refuse to be moral-policed about how we should carry out our protest against
moral policing. Denying us permission citing the mode and name of the protest is
questioning our right to protest," said a statement released by the campaigners
to media.

"We are moving forward with the protest, and expect every single person who
would like to express his solidarity with voices against moral policing to
gather there with us," the organizers said. They had sought permission to hold
the protest near Town Hall. They said they have been given no letter stating the
reasons for refusal of permission. Terming "baseless" the claim of the police
commissioner that details of the protest were not provided to police, they said
details about the time, date and venue were given well in advance.

They pointed out that one of the grounds for denial of permission was that Kiss
of Love sounds sensational. Kiss of Love protests have taken place in Kochi,
IIT-Bombay, Hyderabad, Calcutta, Puducherry, Delhi and Chennai.

"We refuse to the change of name of the movement. In this democratic country,
it's our right to choose the mode and form of protest and, most importantly, the
name of the protest as long as it falls within the boundaries of our
Constitution and law," the campaigners said.

The protest is against moral policing and cultural fascism, they said. "We
strongly believe that there is nothing obscene in this form of protest and would
like to keep in mind the judgments passed by the Honorable Supreme Court and the
Delhi High Court on cases pertaining to public display of affection.

"As Kiss of Love is a movement formed through a Facebook collective, and has
been organized by a group of volunteers, a single person cannot take
responsibility for the protest. We are willing and ready to take responsibility
as a group," they said.

'FOR TOLERANCE'

* This is not just a protest for the right to kiss in public places. We need to
open up spaces in this rigid society to make it tolerant towards expression of
love in public spaces, be it between siblings, lovers or parents with children.

* A single person cannot take responsibility for the protest. We are willing to
take responsibility as a group.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 7, 2014 Monday

Macedonian commentary urges social media not to fuel tension after protests

LENGTH: 551 words


Text of report by Macedonian newspaper Dnevnik on 7 July

[Commentary by Igor K. Ilievski: "Protests after which everyone cries even
without teargas"]

Bloody heads, broken windows, a dozen injured, hundreds of crying people... This
is the initial outcome of the protests held over the "Monster" case ruling. This
is the overall result of the three days of larger or smaller, violent or
peaceful protests.

The organization of the protests has so far been attributed to "the social
networks." Official Tirana and Pristina have distanced themselves from the
protests, saying that they treat them "as of religious, rather than of ethnic or
national background." The Albanian and Kosovo Governments believe that the
protests were mostly Islamist because of the prevailing shouts and flags and
that the demonstrators had been abused by "elements and people of religious
background."

There is no protest that cannot be abused for whatever reasons, from filling
"the front line" with juveniles, which is the most usual and most available
"cannon fodder" during every protest, to sending out radical religious and
nationalist messages through the protesters gathered under the motto of justice
and truth.

The ruling DUI [Democratic Union for Integration - BDI in Albanian], too, has
distanced itself from the protests and has appealed to the indictees' families,
who are dissatisfied with the verdict, to resume the legal battle at the Appeals
and Supreme Courts, and even the Strasbourg court. This should be the road that
they should take to win a battle against a court ruling.

Still, this should not be done on the streets with stones, teargas, let alone
nationalist and religious ornaments. Even the demonstrators who protested in
Struga, Kicevo, and Gostivar yesterday condemned the violence of their Skopje
and Tetovo "fellow fighters."

The last thing that we currently need is a certain "Commander Panther of
the112th Brigade" to protect the Albanian nation and repeat the 2001 conflict
with even greater bloodshed.

Such protests and statements bring no good. At this point calm and cool heads
are required on "the social networks," too. There is always one side that is
dissatisfied with a verdict, but there are mechanisms to resume this process.
This is the right of every side, just as everyone has the right to protest, for
whatever reason. Still, what if those who believe that the court has reached the
right verdict use their right to protest, too, and go out to defend the court
from pressure? If the protests against the court ruling were large-scale,
imagine how large would be this protest. How would such a protest look like with
the opponent to the ruling on the one side and the court protectors on the
other, with a police buffer zone in the middle? What would be the degree of risk
under such circumstances? Is this the goal of "the social networks"?

Discontent should be expressed peacefully on the streets. Otherwise, the thing
that started as seeking justice will be transformed into something completely
different with incredibly high speed. One hot head and one stone hurled would
suffice to make the peaceful protests a battlefield. Is this the objective of
these protests?

After such protests, everyone will be crying, but not from teargas.

Source: Dnevnik, Skopje, in Macedonian 7 Jul 14 p 11

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                           September 17, 2013 Tuesday

Lack of water service delivery angers all

BYLINE: Schalk Mouton

SECTION: SOCIAL ISSUES

LENGTH: 380 words


IF there is one thing that makes South Africans stand together more than
anything else, it is the lack of water service delivery.
 As protests across the country spike, the preliminary findings of a study by
the Institute for Poverty, Land and Agrarian Studies (Plaas), show that rich,
poor, black and white all stand together in showing their dissatisfaction with
poor water management and infrastructure in the country.


 Dr Barbara Tapela, senior researcher in integrated water resources management
at Plaas, said service delivery protests related to water were becoming more
frequent and more violent, but taxpayers' dissatisfaction did not always show in
the form of protests.
 "Last year, the frequency, geographical spread and violence of social protests
in post-apartheid South Africa reached unprecedented levels," Tapela said.
"Water service delivery issues rose in prominence among various reasons cited
for violent and non- violent protests."
 Tapela said while violent protests were increasing among disadvantaged groups,
more and more taxpayers were declaring disputes with municipalities and
withholding taxes.
 "It is a vote of no confidence in their municipalities' ability to deliver
services, so they withhold their tax money and pay it into a trust to pay
private contractors for services," Tapela said.
 In 2009, 220 branches of the National Taxpayers' Union (NTU) in towns situated
in 47 municipalities, declared disputes with their respective municipalities,
with members withholding their tax money.
  The number of disputes due to poor service delivery increased to 278 towns in
the same 47 municipalities this year. "They fall into a category of non-violent
protest, where they choose to use institutionalised ways of protesting," she
said.
 According to the Service Delivery Protest Barometer, compiled by the Multilevel
Government Initiative, service delivery protests had increased exponentially
since 2008, with violent protests in the past two years increasing by more than
100% compared to 2007.
 Even in cases where the protests were not service delivery-related - like the
De Doorns farm worker protests - Tapela said like the 20 other factors that
caused the particular protest, the lack of water and sanitation was usually the
main driver of such protests.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 156

LENGTH: 216  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, the employees of the Food Department Hyderabad led by
Ghulam Mustafa Memon recorded a protest demonstration against the District Food
Controller. They accused the District Food Controller of corruption and demanded
an enquiry against him. The employees of the Baldia City Hyderabad recorded a
protest demonstration for the issuance of their withheld salaries.

The students of O level recorded a protest demonstration against the authorities
of the BISE Hyderabad for conducting the papers of different subjects from them
once again. A man named Muhammad Urs Jatoi, resident of GOR Colony staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of his cousin named Hafil Jatoi, who was
allegedly arrested by the police one month ago. The Lashari community people,
residents of Khorwah recorded a protest demonstration against the actions of
their area's landlord named Allah Dino Chandio, The activists of the MQM
Hyderabad led by Muhammad Sharif recorded a protest demonstration against the
murder of their party leaders in Karachi. The contract based employees of the
SBCA Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of their
services.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Star of Mysore (India)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

CITY COPS PROTEST

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: Mysore


ysore, March 9 -- Perhaps for the first time in recent history, the Police
personnel, who are entrusted the responsibility of restoring peace, harmony, law
and order, registered their protest in city this morning by performing their
duties wearing black bands on their left arms.

They were protesting against the alleged assault on some cops by advocates at
the Civil Court premises in Bangalore on Mar. 2, during which a number of
Policemen were grievously injured.

Interestingly, today's protest by Policemen in city comes after a day when
families of the injured Police personnel staged a protest at Bangalore
yesterday.

Metagalli Inspector H.M. Mahadevappa, speaking to Star of Mysore, said that
their protest has been prompted by the heinous attack on Policemen in Bangalore
and maintained that the cops had no other option but to protest even while
discharging their duties.

"Just as people from other walks of life need protection, we too need
protection," he said and urged for an early solution to the issue.

Constable Revappa, who said that the protest was symbolic, wondered how the
situation would be if Police personnel resorted to protests as done by other
organisations, which would result in total chaos and lack of safety for
citizens.

Protest called off: The protest which was taken up by city Police was, however,
called off at noon following instructions from DG&IGP Shankar Bidari who
instructed the striking cops to withdraw their symbolic protest.

City advocates boycott court: A large number of justice-seeking members of the
public who had reached the city court premises to attend their cases were left
in the lurch as advocates continued to boycott the proceedings in city courts.

It is learnt that following a meeting, the office-bearers of the Mysore Bar
Association have gone to Bangalore to join in the agitation launched by
advocates in the State capital. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Star of Mysore.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star Of Mysore
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 995 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            December 30, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Global protests and a new lexicon

BYLINE: Megan O'Toole, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 504  words


From Cairo to Calgary, hordes of average citizens flooded public streets and
camped out in central squares this year. Some toppled dictators, or shed their
own blood trying. Others strummed guitars in an amorphous critique of
capitalism.

While the scope varied dramatically from the Arab Spring to Occupy Wall Street
and related protests, each movement reflected a groundswell against the status
quo.

"Protest actions this year displayed a deeper, more trenchant critique of the
failures of the global economy that separates them from more transient marches
or demonstrations," noted T.V. Reed, a professor of English and American studies
at Washington State University and author of The Art of Protest. "Occupying a
site, whether it be Tahrir Square or Zuccotti Park, symbolizes a long-term
commitment and a long-range strategy."

The cascade of political protests was touched off late last year after a
downtrodden Tunisian vegetable salesman set himself ablaze. Images of protest
soon bounced around the world in realtime.

When North Americans witnessed Arab Spring protesters willing to die for regime
change, noted Timothy McCarthy, director of the human rights and social
movements program at the Harvard Kennedy School's Carr Center for Human Rights
Policy, some responded with self-reproach: "How dare we not do the same thing?"

"The Arab Spring not only inspired us," Mr. McCarthy said, "in some cases, it
shamed us into a kind of political activism that we haven't seen in this country
really since the '60s."

The concept of seeking change by occupying public space is not new, but what was
unique in 2011 was the rapidity by which one revolution fed into another.
Protesters in the Arab world were emboldened by the perceived successes of their
neighbours, while Occupy participants took motivation from both the Spanish
Indignados' call for a new form of participatory democracy and the fierce
determination of rage-fuelled Egyptians reclaiming their streets.

Whether in Toronto or Tunis, protesters' physical encampments demanded a
response from the powers that be. "One way or the other, it's a very powerful
way of forcing attention, forcing access to the people in power. They have to do
something," said Bert Klandermans, the Amsterdam-based president of the
International Society of Political Psychology.

In some cases, most notably the falls of Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali in Tunisia and
Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, protesters succeeded in achieving a singular demand. In
others, such as the Occupy encampments across Canada and the United States,
there was no obvious victory. But there was a dramatic reshaping of public
discourse, noted Megan Boler, associate chair of theory and policy studies at
the University of Toronto's Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. "The
entire vocabulary and lexicon of the public and of the news and of the media has
changed, so that slogans like 1% and 99% have a new meaning and are used
frequently," Prof. Boler said.

National Post motoole@nationalpost.com twitter.com/megan_otoole

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Syria, Crackdown After Protests

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 401 words


DAMASCUS, Syria -- Protests broke out in four Syrian cities on Friday, the first
large-scale demonstrations here since the pro-democracy uprisings began in the
Arab world three months ago. Brutal police crackdowns followed, leaving six
people dead and scores injured.

In the largest protests, several thousand people gathered in the center of
Dara'a, in southern Syria, chanting ''God, Syria and freedom only,'' witnesses
said. They demanded the resignation of the mayor and the leader of the local
branch of the security police. The police later opened fire on the crowd,
killing six, the witnesses said.

There were also protests in Banias, on the Mediterranean coast; in the central
city of Homs; and here, in the capital. A Facebook page, ''the Syrian revolution
2011,'' has called on people to protest against corruption and repression.

Antigovernment protests are virtually unknown in Syria, a police state where
political opposition has been brutally suppressed in the past.

Small protests in the capital on Tuesday and Wednesday were violently dispersed
by the authorities, who arrested scores of demonstrators. The state news
service, SANA, dismissed those protests as the work of outside agitators.

It reprised that explanation on Friday, saying on its Web site that after some
citizens gathered in front of the Omari Mosque in Dara'a, ''some outsiders
exploited the situation and caused chaos, damaging public and private
properties.''

The protest in Dara'a arose in part from the arrest earlier this month of about
20 youths who had written graffiti complaining about the high cost of living and
calling for more freedoms.

Videos posted on YouTube show the security services trying to disperse the crowd
with water cannons. The situation escalated later, a witness said.

''They used live ammunition immediately, no tear gas or anything else,'' said
the witness, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

In Damascus, a crowd at the Ummayad Mosque tried to march, chanting ''God, Syria
and Bashar only,'' but were charged and beaten by a pro-government group,
witnesses said. About 30 were arrested.

In Homs, about 2,000 protesters gathered in front of the Khaled bin al Waleed
mosque. That group too was assaulted, and arrests followed. In Banias, a similar
group numbered in the hundreds; soon afterward, all entrances to the city were
closed, said a lawyer from Banias who also spoke on condition of anonymity.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 106

LENGTH: 323  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Monday.  According to details, the members
of the All Sindh Lower Staff Education Department Pressure Group under the
leadership of Liaquat Zai, Najeeb Khan and others staged a protest demonstration
for the provision of time scale and restoration of the sacked employees. A man
namely Khair Muhammad Chohan, resident of Kotri staged a protest demonstration
for arrest of the killers of his deceased son late Muhammad Sadiq Chohan.

A man namely Abdul Sattar Seelro, resident of Shahdadkot along with his family
members staged a protest demonstration against the registration of alleged fake
cases against him. The members of Public Health Engineering Staff Welfare
Association under the leadership of Muhammad Waseem, Akeel Ahmed and others
staged a protest demonstration in favor of their demands. The members of Green
Rural Development Organization, Saath Saharo Society (SSS) and Hari Himmat
Welfare Society under the leadership of Qamar Shaikh, Dr Ghulam Hyder, Ghulam
Hussain Malookani staged a protest demonstration for the acceptance of their
demands.

The members of Raagi Welfare Association Hyderabad under the leadership singer
Mazhar Hussain and others staged a protest demonstration against the arrest of
Rahat Fateh Ali Khan in New Delhi India . The residents of Kotri under the
leadership of Deedar Shah, Waseem Magsi and others staged a protest
demonstration against the occupation of their lands in Khuda Ki Basti. The
members of the  Contractors Association staged a protest demonstration for the
acceptance of their demands.

The activists of Awami National Party Hyderabad staged a protest demonstration
in the favor their demands. The members of Hyderabad Action Committee under the
leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and others continued their protest
demonstration against Habib Group Farms.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

County gets 250 of 10,000 expected protests so far

BYLINE: MATT OLBERDING, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, NE


Bulk of valuation protests usually comes at end of June, county official says.

Despite the uproar over Lancaster County property valuations, only a few hundred
protests have been filed so far.

Chief Deputy County Clerk Trish Owen said her office had received only about 250
protests as of Tuesday afternoon.

That doesn't seem like a lot, considering valuation notices have been out for a
week and the county expects 10,000 or more protests, but Owen said it's pretty
much par for the course this early in the process.

"Historically, we've always had the bulk of (the protests) the last week of
June."

Owen said there's been a steady stream of people coming into her office to pick
up the protest forms, which also can be downloaded at
www.lincoln.ne.gov/cnty/clerk/pvpform.htm.

That includes one developer who asked for 1,000 protest forms, she said.

Owen declined to name the developer, because the person hasn't filed any
protests yet.

Some people who are planning to protest may be doing research to be prepared.

County Assessor Norm Agena said that from Memorial Day through Friday, his
office's Web site had more than 1 million hits. That kind of usage was causing
the system to be unavailable often, a problem that continued Tuesday.

Agena's office also discovered a problem with the valuation notices themselves:
Because of a computer coding error, nearly 900 never got sent.

Those 897 notices have been mailed, and Agena said those property owners will
have 30 days from the day they receive them to file a valuation protest.
Everyone else must file a protest by June 30.

Among those who received valuation notices and who have filed a protest is
Lancaster County Sheriff Terry Wagner, whose south Lincoln home's value rose
$71,000.

Wagner said he was a little hesitant to file a protest because of his position
as an elected official, but he recently had a private appraisal done on his home
that produced a value considerably less than what the assessor's office
determined.

Reach Matt Olberding at 473-2647 or molberding@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                       May 28, 2004 Friday Final Edition

Lebanon: Protests turn violent, leaving five dead

SOURCE: CanWest News Service

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 63 words

Demonstrators set fire to the Labour Ministry yesterday, after Lebanese soldiers
shot and killed five people and wounded 12 others during protests against the
government's economic policies, security and hospital officials said. A civil
defence firefighter also died in hospital after being hit by gunfire in what was
Lebanon's worst violence involving civilians in a decade.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World briefs: Taxi drivers protest against Uber in Brazil's capital

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 696 words


Brazilian taxi drivers protest Uber service

Taxi drivers from around Brazil staged a protest in the capital Tuesday against
the presence of Uber, demanding that it be prohibited.

More than 1,000 drivers, many in their vehicles, showed up in front of Congress
in a particularly colorful protest, with many taxis painted different colors for
various Brazilian cities.

The drivers called on Congress to ban the U.S.-based company from operating in
Latin America's largest nation. Many taxi drivers complain that Uber has led to
big drops in their incomes as customers use the Uber app to find cheaper rides
from private drivers.

Uber is currently in a handful of Brazil's largest cities, including Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro and Brasilia. The company has said it views Brazil and other
parts of Latin America as growth areas.

Ebola exposure feared in Canadian lab - An employee at Canada's National Centre
for Foreign Animal Disease may have been exposed to the Ebola virus.

Dr. John Copps said Tuesday the employee was working with six infected pigs
Monday and noticed a split in the seam of his protective suit during
decontamination after working in the Level 4 lab in Winnipeg, Manitoba.

The lab director says the risk to the employee, co-workers and the community is
considered to be low.

The employee met with a doctor and was offered an experimental Ebola vaccine.
Officials, citing privacy, wouldn't say whether he received the vaccine.

The employee is in isolation and will be monitored for 21 days by local health
officials.

Gangs may be targeting police, soldiers - Authorities in El Salvador have
increased their vigilance in an effort to protect their own against gang
attacks.

Vice President Oscar Ortiz says the government has decided to raise the alert
level for all 23,000 police officers and soldiers. Members of each group have
been targeted, most often while on leave. A national police officer and a
soldier were killed in separate incidents Tuesday.

So far this year, 39 police officers, 19 soldiers and a prison guard have been
killed. Last year, gangs killed 62 police, 17 soldiers and six prison guards.

Ortiz says security forces are paying a high price in their fight against the El
Salvador's powerful gangs, but the government will continue the fight.

Bolivians take part in skull festival - Hundreds of Bolivians have carried human
skulls adorned with flowers to a cemetery in the capital city of La Paz, asking
for health, money, love and other favors.

The devotees brought skulls known as "natitas" for a short Mass at the cemetery
Tuesday. They later played music and lit candles. Others took skulls into a La
Paz home as part of the ritual celebrated a week after the Day of the Dead.

The Roman Catholic Church considers the skull festival to be pagan, but it
doesn't ban people from taking part.

Belgian called mastermind of Paris attacks - Authorities have identified a
Belgian named Oussama Atar as the possible organizer of deadly Islamic State
attacks on Paris and Brussels over the past year.

A judicial official and a security official said Tuesday that Atar's name
appears in the investigation. The judicial official said there is evidence that
Atar is the real identity of Abu Ahmed, a pseudonym of the suspected attack
coordinator. His whereabouts are unknown.

Atar's name has been circulating in Belgium for months as possibly linked to the
attacks. Belgian prosecutors would not comment Tuesday.

Investigators believe the same Islamic State cell was behind the Paris attacks
in November 2015 and the Brussels attacks in March, which together killed 162
people.

Clues sought from mass grave near Mosul - Iraqi investigators were probing a
mass grave on Tuesday that was discovered by troops advancing toward the Islamic
State-held city of Mosul.

The chilling find was the latest instance of mass graves being uncovered on
ground wrested from militants.

Footage from the site shows bones and decomposed bodies among scraps of clothing
and plastic bags dug out of the ground by a bulldozer in the town of Hamam
al-Alil.

The first officials at the site said the grave likely holds about 100 bodies,
many of them decapitated. The town lies some 19 miles from Mosul.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Taxi drivers protest against the online transportation service Uber,
in Brasilia, Brazil, Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016. More than one thousand taxi drivers,
many in their vehicles, staged a protest in front of Congress demanding that it
prohibits the U.S. based company from operating in Latin America's largest
nation. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)  Taxi drivers protest against the online
transportation service Uber, in Brasilia, Brazil, Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016. More
than one thousand taxi drivers, many in their vehicles, staged a protest in
front of Congress demanding that it prohibits the U.S. based company from
operating in Latin America's largest nation. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)  Taxi
drivers shout slogans during protest against the online transportation service
Uber, in Brasilia, Brazil, Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016. More than 1 thousand taxi
drivers, many in their vehicles, staged a protest in front of Congress demanding
that it prohibits the U.S. based company from operating in Latin America's
largest nation. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)  Taxi drivers protest against the online
transportation service Uber, in Brasilia, Brazil, Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016. More
than 1 thousand taxi drivers, many in their vehicles, staged a protest in front
of Congress demanding that it prohibits the U.S. based company from operating in
Latin America's largest nation. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 6, 2016 Sunday

Protests spill over to city as venue remains deserted

BYLINE: Vaivasvat Venkat

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 301 words


LUDHIANA: Despite the ground opposite Vardhaman industries being allocated as
the venue for protests, the orders have not been implemented, with protests
still being conducted outside the DC office.A major protest was conducted
outside the VC office by Congress leaders on Friday. They burnt the effigy of
Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Another protest was staged by a taxi driver and his supporters on Ferozepur
road, disrupting traffic. There was a violent protest outside Basti Jodhewal
Police Station on Thursday as well. On October 13, police commissioner Jatinder
Singh Aulakh, using his powers under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code,
fixed GLADA ground opposite Vardhaman Industries in Sector 39 A on the
Ludhiana-Chandigarh road as venue for any protest by political parties or other
organisations. The decision was taken to prevent inconvenience to the general
public because of protests by political parties and other organisations.
However, the order remained only on the paper as nothing was done for its
implementation. Protests continue to be organized on important city roads,
highways and even outside the office of the deputy commissioner. "Nothing has
been done to implement the orders and it is the general public that is at the
receiving end. This order should be implemented and offenders should be given
stringent punishment. If a place for protests can be fixed in Chandigarh, why
can't the same be done in Ludhiana," asked advocate Harjiot Singh. Police
commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh said, "We have registered a case with regard
to the protest carried out on Ferozepur Road on Friday. Those who violate orders
will be booked and we will implement the orders stringently. We will not allow
city residents to be harassed by protesters."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

MAIDAN IN KIEV SPARES THE KREMLIN SOCIAL PROTESTS

BYLINE: Olga Soloviova

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 1239

LENGTH: 447 words



HIGHLIGHT: CONSEQUENCES OF THE EUROMAIDAN IN KIEV, UKRAINE, SLOWED DOWN
PROLIFERATION OF PROTEST DISPOSITION IN RUSSIA; Informed of the devastating
consequences of the Maidan in Ukraine, the Russians hesitate to join protests.


The Ukrainian revolution is helping the Russian state machinery. Aware of what
is happening in Ukraine in the wake of the so called Euromaidan, the Russians
are less susceptible to proliferation of protest disposition. And yet, it is
economic problems that disturb the Russians more than anything else...
particularly the Russians who admit that they just might take part in protest
actions. All these assumptions are confirmed by results of the opinion polls
presented by Aleksei Kudrin's Civil Initiatives Committee, yesterday.

Devastating consequences of the Euromaidan... serve as a powerful inhibitor for
proliferation of protest disposition in Russia. Experts say that only a
sustained economic crisis will persuade the Russians to ignore the neighbors'
example.

According a the poll conducted in Moscow, Vladimir, and Gus-Khustalny (near
Vladimir), most Russians distrust the opposition and fear protests for the time
being.

Mikhail Dmitriyev said, "The Russians reevaluated the political protests that
swept through the country in 2011 and early 2012. Most of them take a negative
view of those protests now. It is the latest developments in Ukraine that
compelled the Russians to change their mind. The Maidan in Kiev cured Russia of
analogous protests."

Moreover, the respondents are as good as certain that nothing like that is
possible in Russia in general. Most Russians approached by pollsters said that
President Vladimir Putin would never permit a Maidan or its analogs in Russia.
"It follows that there are no grounds for political protests in Russia,"
Dmitriyev said.

(Nearly 20% respondents were ready to join protest actions in 2011 and 2012.
Only 4% were ready to protest in the second half of 2014.)

Dmitriyev warned, however, that the Russians' attitude toward economic protests
was changing. Interest in economic matters was flourishing. General public
experienced a dramatic shortage of objective information on the current
socioeconomic situation. "People look for it in Western media outlets, Internet,
and social networks," Dmitriyev said. "We know for example that the Russians
approve and support the country's foreign policy. At the same time, they cannot
help being disappointed by the situation in Russia itself."

Dmitriyev emphasized that these conclusions might be obsolete since the polls in
question had been conducted before the crash of the ruble.

"Protests will become more and more active in a short while. Deterioration of
the economic situation will compel general public to ask more and more questions
and demand answers to them from the powers-that-be," Ilya Yashin of RPR-PARNAS
commented.

Source: Nezavisimaya Gazeta, No 281, December 25, 2014, p. 1

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

647 protests in August, 370 against military rule: IDC

BYLINE: Daily News Egypt

LENGTH: 201 words


//

Egyptian riot policemen throw stones during clashes with protesters who gathered
in support of a prominent secular activist who turned himself after being
ordered detained for holding a demonstration against a new protest law, on
November 30, 2013 in Cairo.
(AFP PHOTO STR)

A Saturday report was issued by International Development Center (IDC) stating
that August witnessed 647 protests, of which the Muslim Brotherhood led 414.

Many of the protests occurred during the Rabaa Al-Adaweya and Nahda Square
sit-in dispersal anniversary.

Other protests occurred because of the electricity outages and increases in the
cost of living, the report said, followed by workers protesting against working
conditions.

Out of all protests, 370 were against military rule, 14 were calling for the
release of detainees, 12 against the war in Gaza and 10 were held against
security chaos.

According to the report, political and civil rights provided most of the reasons
for the protests.

The majority of the protests were held in Cairo, followed by Sharqeya
governorate with 12% and Giza ranking third with 9%. The lowest number of
protests was recorded in the border governorates of Marsa Matrouh, North Sinai
and South Sinai.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2014 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan: PTI Karachi to block Shahra-e-Faisal

LENGTH: 248  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Sept. 2 -- To show its street power, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf has
announced to stage a protest sit-in on Shara-e-Faisal, a major boulevard in
Karachi from Saturday.

"We have decided to launch a massive protest tsunami, which if the government
tried to stop, would be itself responsible for untoward consequences. We will
come out in full power tomorrow, come what may", a statement issued by the party
said.

According to sources, PTI core committee, in its meeting held, has finalized
protest demonstrations in major cities including Karachi as an extension to the
anti-government protest demonstration in Islamabad's 'Red Zone' after the party
leader Imran Khan's announcement.

"We will stage mega protest demonstrations in Lahore, Faisalabad, Multan, and
Karachi tomorrow (Saturday)", party leader Imran Khan told his workers staging
anti-government sit-in in front of Parliament House.

Laying out their protest plans, the PTI said in addition to Shara-e-Faisal
Karachi, rallies/sit-ins would be staged in Faisalabad's Zila Council Chowk,
Multan's Nawan Shehr Chowk, and Lahore to start with.

Shara-e-Faisal is one of the main thoroughfares in the metropolis and most of
the national and multinational companies' offices, schools, shopping plazas,
banks, and institutes are close to it

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

500 personnel to escort protest rally; Federal capital comes under security
blanket

BYLINE:  Zubair Qureshi

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 020

LENGTH: 340  words


Police chiefs in the federal capital spent a busy Thursday chalking out
foolproof security plan for today (Friday) protest rallies s in the city.

Some Sunni Ulema and workers of Ahl-e-Sunnat wal Jamaat have given countrywide
calls for protests against last Friday incident of arson and killings at one of
their seminaries in Rawalpindi. In Islamabad, their rally will start after
Friday prayer from Lal Masjid and end at the press club.

An office bearer of Jamat Ahl-e-Sunnat on anonymity told Pakistan Observer,
Maulana Ahmed Ludhianvi Amir of the Jamat will lead the protest rally. Leaders
of Difa-e-Pakistan Council and other religious political parties will also
participate, he said. However, he said, "We have not disclosed the number of
participants nor the magnitude of the protest. It will be a complete surprise
for police and government," he said.

An official of the Special Branch also confirmed this saying police high-ups are
not aware of the exact magnitude and intensity of the protest. "They keep saying
it will be a peaceful protest rally and very few participants will protest
against the Youm-e-Ashur killings in Pindi. However, we doubt that it will be a
small and peaceful protest," he expressed his fears.

Majlis Wahdatul Muslemeen (MWM) had also called for a similar protest rally
against attacks on their Imam Bargahs in Pindi and elsewhere.

Their rally was planned from G-6 Imam Bargah to D-Chowk after the Friday
prayers. However, according to an office bearer of the MWM, the rally has been
cancelled at the last moment. The city administration has prevailed upon the
Shia Ulemas to postpone their protest as it might lead to sectarian clashes. We
have accepted their request in the interest of peace, he said. According to a
senior official, police have been deployed a day prior to the rally outside 20
most sensitive buildings including Imam Bargahs and seminaries of the two
groups.

Likewise, more than 500 personnel will escort the protest rally and all the
measures have been taken to make it peaceful, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Hawaii: Senators Introduce Bill To Tighten Guam Procurement Law

LENGTH: 645  words

DATELINE: Honolulu


Pacific Islands Development, The State of Hawaii has issued the following news
release:

Senators Tom Ada and Rory Respicio have introduced Bill 224, which seeks to
clarify legal and contractual remedies in the Guam Procurement Law.

According to Ada, the bill addresses the procedures and timelines to be followed
when a protest related to a solicitation, source selection, or award of a
contract is lodged.

Both senators agree that with a good portion of government of Guam funds going
toward the acquisition of supplies and services, the timely resolution of
protests and an effective remedial scheme are essential to proper and efficient
procurement.

"The filing of a protest is an important feature of our procurement system
because it provides for 'real time' policing of the process," Respicio said. "In
other words, a participant in the procurement process is allowed to register a
protest at the time that a failure or defect in the process has occurred.
However, to be effective the protest process must be expeditious."

The current Procurement Law defines a timeline when a protest can be filed.
However, the law is silent on when the government agency receiving the protest
must respond. Bill 224, the senators said, aims to require that the protested
agency make a decision within 21 days from the date a protest is lodged. If no
decision is made within the allotted time, the protestor can petition the agency
and if a decision is still not rendered within 7 days, then the protest can be
elevated to the Office of the Public Auditor.

"Simply put, in the current law, there is no definite timeline for when an
agency must resolve a protest. Bill 224 will require that agencies respond to
and resolve protests no later than 28 days from the receipt of such protests."

Timelines

Bill 224 also seeks to provide definitive timelines on when an aggrieved
participant must take action and when government entities must respond.

"The objective of Bill 224 is to improve the efficiency and efficacy of the
administrative and judicial remedial scheme. The general structure of the
remedial scheme is sound but in need of critical changes to achieve this goal,"
Ada said.

In addition, the bill also makes changes to the process of awarding contracts
once a protest is lodged. Currently, the law is unclear in situations where a
protest is lodged after an award has been made. Bill 224 stops all further work
and awards until final resolution of a protest.

"Of course, there are provisions for exceptions in the event of declared
emergencies," Respicio qualified.

Bill 224 also clarifies who may lodge a protest, when a protest can be filed,
and under what circumstances a protest may be lodged. The bill further clarifies
who has the authority to resolve protests. The use of settlement conferences,
expedited alternative dispute resolution and debriefing are among the methods
advocated by the measure.

It also mandates that the decisions and conclusions reached at each stage of
administrative review must be in writing, detailing the basis for the
conclusions, and that the administrative review process must be exhausted prior
to seeking resolution through the judicial system.

Ada is hopeful that the introduction of Bill 224 will "enroll the good faith
participation" of private sector participants in the procurement process to
assure the efficacy and integrity of the procurement system, and to establish an
effective and expeditious resolution of disputes.

"I hope the introduction of Bill 224 will bring community stakeholders and
government procurement employees more clarity in the remedial scheme of the
government of Guam procurement law. A sound remedial scheme is an essential
component to ensuring government funds are spent efficiently, effectively and in
accordance with the law," Ada concluded.

For further information please visit: http://pidp.eastwestcenter.org/

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 20, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PROBATION PROTESTS AT PRIVATISATION;
Union members say public could be put at risk over plans to outsource work to
private firms

BYLINE: Simon Gilbert

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


PROBATION workers turned out in force to stage protests over privatisation plans
which they say could put the public at risk.

Over 100 probation staff staged demonstrations in protest over government plans
to off-load large parts of the probation service to the private sector.

Workers held lunchtime rallies between 1pm and 2pm yesterday, with staff
protesting with placards outside the justice centres in Nuneaton and Leamington.

Union members from NAPO, Unison and GMB joined forces for the protests, which
have been described by union leaders as the first stage of long term industrial
action.

The protests - which were replicated across the country - were arranged to
coincide with the date justice secretary Chris Grayling formally invited tenders
for contracts related to the Probation Service worth over £450 million.

Dave Adams, chairman of the Warwickshire Branch of NAPO, said: "I'm really
pleased with the turnout, almost 100 per cent of Warwickshire staff in work
joined in the demonstration.

"It was well received by the public, we seemed to get a positive response from
most people.

"The general public need to know about Chris Grayling's plans, but there doesn't
seem to be a clear plan for how this is going to work.

"It's like trying to build a house with no plans - he's making it up as he goes
along."

With all of Warwickshire's MPs part of the in-power Conservative party, the
protesters have vowed to work hard to convince MPs and the public that this is
not a party-political issue.

"We will be focusing on the different constituencies in the next couple of
months," said Mr Adams. "But whether you are Tory, Labour or Liberal Democrat,
you have to be worried about the dismantling of a probation service which has
performed and protected the public well for many years."

Protesters have also vowed to put particular pressure on Kenilworth & Southam MP
Jeremy Wright who is also the minister for prisons and rehabilitation.

Action is expected to take place in his constituency on Saturday, September 28
and details are due to be announced in the coming days. Workers fear cuts of up
to 30 per cent and believe job losses will be inevitable if the probation
service is sold off to a private firm.

Concerns have also been raised about the supervision of released prisoners.

Organisations such as Serco and G4S, which provided security for the London
Olympics, are believed to be among the interested parties.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLACARDS: Probation Service staff protest outside Protest outside the
Nuneaton Justice Centre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

Assir supporters vow to stage protest in Sidon

LENGTH: 194 words


Supporters of firebrand Sheikh Ahmad Assir vowed to stage a protest in Sidon
Friday despite a protest ban by authorities, said a sheikh close to the fugitive
preacher Thursday.

BEIRUT: Supporters of firebrand Sheikh Ahmad Assir vowed to stage a protest in
Sidon Friday despite a protest ban by authorities, said a sheikh close to the
fugitive preacher Thursday.

The sheikh, who declined to be identified, said worshippers from the Bilal Bin
Rabah Mosque in Abra, where Assir used to deliver sermons, would hold the
protest Friday at noon as scheduled.

"Security bodies have informed the mosque's committee of a firm decision to
crack down on any demonstration or protest outside Abra's mosque even if this
requires opening fire," he told the Central News Agency.

"But we insist on holding the protest and we hold Sidon's two MPs, its religious
and political figures first and Iran's party [Hezbollah] second responsible for
any bloodshed."

The protest aims at pressuring authorities to release Sheikh Assem Arefi and
others arrested by the Army over the Abra clashes with Assir in June.

Arefi was arrested Tuesday after he confessed to having fought the Army
alongside Assir.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2013 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                             Mehr News Agency (MNA)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Turkish mass protests enters tenth day

LENGTH: 143 words


TEHRAN, Jun. 9 (MNA) â- Tens of thousands of Turks have protested today against
the policies of Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

According to Al-Manar News, tens of thousands of Turks came to the streets again
today to protest against the policies of Prime Minister Erdogen. The largest
gathering was in Izmir, where security forces suppressed demonstrations, and
arrested the activists.
Thus, Turkish mass protests have entered into its tenth day. Meanwhile AK Party,
the ruling party has ruled out the possibility of early elections.
Widespread protests, which began ten days ago, are still continuing in many
cities of Turkey. In the first phase of the protests, people came to support the
protesters in Gezi Park in Taksim Square, and gradually became anti-government
protests, and demonstrators are now calling for the resignation of Recep Tayyip
Erdogan.
SMH/SH
MNA
END

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 399


                        Copyright 2013 Mehr News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              331 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday

Labour strikes and protests double under Morsi

BYLINE: Ahmed Aboul Enein

LENGTH: 664 words


Press conference held at ECESR , where they issued their 2012 report detailing
the increasing number of labour strikes in Egypt
(Photo ECESR handout)

Labour strikes and social protests have more than doubled since President
Mohamed Morsi's election and are likely to continue doing so, a study shows.

A report published on Sunday by the Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social
Rights (ECESR) about labour movements during 2012 shows that most of the year's
3,817 labour strikes and economically motivated social protests happened
following Morsi's election.

Between January and June, the period in which the Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces ran the country, there was an average of 185 protests or strikes per
month, accounting for 29% of the whole year.

In contrast, workers staged an average of 452 monthly protests or strikes
between July and December following Morsi's inauguration, or 71% of such events
in 2012. There have been over 2,400 protests or strikes in the first quarter of
2013 alone, specifically between January and March.

"The statistics demonstrate the doubling of protest movements since July
following President Morsi's inauguration which reflects the will of workers to
have their voice reach the new president," the 70-page report noted. "Several
sectors of society tried to direct the president's attention towards their
missing rights while others demonstrated their disappointment in the president
and his government."

Most protests came from the governmental sector, which witnessed 1,355
demonstrations and strikes, accounting for 35.5% of 2012's total. Private sector
workers accounted for 10.3% with 393 protests while public sector employees made
up 5.8% with 221 protests.

Freelancers and self-employed workers held 182 protests, accounting for 5%.
Citizens protesting against rising prices, lack of fuel, electricity problems,
and other economic problems held 1,656 protests; the remaining 43.4%.

Strikes and sit-ins were the primary forms of protest used by workers and
accounted for 26.8% of protests. Workers staged 519 strikes and either held or
threatened to hold sit-ins 504 times.

Vigils, used 851 times, were the second most common form of dissent, making up
22.3% of social protests in 2012. Marches and demonstrations followed with 18.3%
while blocking of roads was 14.7%.

Hunger strikes were used 135 times, accounting for 3.5% while mob gatherings
accounted for 4.3% and detaining managers 1.3%. Shutting down and blocking
public buildings accounted for 0.6% while 13 people, accounting for 0.3%, tried
to commit suicide in protest of their living conditions.

Over 36% of labour protests, or 708, were over demands of wage increases.
Temporary workers and unemployed citizens demanding employment made up 19.3%
with 380 protests.

The rest happened in protest over mismanagement, mistreatment, corruption, or
against the closure of factories and businesses.

The report blamed Morsi's government for not issuing a law for independent
unions and syndicates despite their being a draft submitted back in 2011 by
former labour minister, Ahmed Al-Borai.

Instead of issuing the law or tasking the Shura Council with doing so, Morsi
only amended the old law regarding state-sponsored unions and syndicates so he
could replace former regime members with Muslim Brotherhood ones, the ECESR
report argued.

Furthermore the government has yet to increase the minimum wage to EGP 1,200
despite a court ordering it to in a 2011 verdict. The government is also raising
energy prices, increasing sales tax and devaluing the Egyptian pound in
accordance with the International Monetary Fund and World Bank's demands, the
report adds.

"Despite all of this the labour movement continues to defend its rights and
works to achieve the goals of the January revolution: bread, freedom, social
justice and human dignity," the ECESR report said.

Related posts:

A Tale Of Two Cairos

Sudanese representatives in Cairo for meetings on Darfur

Bakery owners cripple the Ministry of Supply

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday

Ex-PPP minister protests against ticket denial

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 51

LENGTH: 131  words


Former minister of Pakistan People Party staged protest outside the Bilawal
House against denial of ticket to him.

Hundreds of supporters and workers of PPP gathered outside the Bilawal House in
favour of former PPP minister Akhater Jadoon. They staged a sit-in protest and
chanted slogans against the PPP policy-makers on getting him out of the election
race.

Jadoon was elected from PS 89 Kimari twice called off the protest after five
hours sit-in protest when party leadership assure him for the ticket.  Talking
to the media, he said, "We have registered a peaceful protest and there wasn't
any incident of firing took place. Protest will be continued if authorities will
not consider public demand." When contacted, the police also declined any sort
of violence during the protest.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                             January 7, 2013 Monday

Youths recruited by UVF at street protests

BYLINE: Allison Morris, a.morris@irishnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 256 words


The UVF has been accused of exploiting disturbances surrounding Union flag
protests to swell its youth wing's ranks.

Loyalist sources say the group has used anger in unionist communities to recruit
members to the illegal Young Citizen Volunteers (YCV).

Last night police were pelted with bricks, bottles and fireworks in east
Belfast.

The Police Federation's Northern Ireland chairman, Terry Spence, said it is
clear that "paramilitaries have hijacked this flags protest issue".

However, PUP leader Billy Hutchinson, a founding member of the YCV, said: "Show
me one shred of evidence that the UVF is orchestrating these protests. Bring me
one young person who was recruited at a protest.

"This is utter nonsense. The UVF are not orchestrating these protests. They are
the people's protests and the people should be allowed to get on with it."

Following four nights of violence in east Belfast Peter Robinson's control of
the DUP is again under question.

The first minister said the organisers of the protest movement, who include
south Armagh man Willie Frazer, were trying to "undermine the DUP as the voice
of unionism".

Mr Robinson urged unionists to move "beyond protests".

However, senior party colleague William Humphrey, who has attended protests on
Crumlin Road in north Belfast, would not rule out attending further
demonstrations.

Special courts sat on Saturday and yesterday to deal with those charged in
connection with the disturbances.

Two women and 16 men were charged with public-order offences. All but one were
remanded in custody.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Ulster Star

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Maze protest motives questioned

LENGTH: 281  words


IN the same week the new Chairman and Board members of the Maze/Long Kesh
Development Corporation were announced, a protest has been organised opposing
the planned Peace and Reconciliation Centre at the former prison site.

William Frazer from FAIR has announced he will be holding a protest at the Maze
on Thursday afternoon. However the South Belfast UPRG have questioned the
motives behind the protest and have said that local residents are not
encouraging the protest.

The protest has been billed as a civil rights protest for Protestants, alleging
that the planned conflict resolution centre will be turned into an Irish
Republican shrine once built, however locals who reside very close to the former
prison feel that the protest itself is not something that they would encourage.

Chairman of the South Belfast UPRG, Colin Halliday said: "Locals have had no
communication with the parade organiser to tell them what is happening and in
many cases the first they heard was when social media sites advertised this.
There is a genuine fear that the prospect of hundreds of supporters being bussed
in for this event might lead to tension with the police and for such a small
closely knit rural community that is unacceptable."

Colin continued: "There has also been some confusion over the real reason for
the protest with some billing it as a civil rights protest, so if this is the
case why is it not held at Stormont and addressed to those administering
Northern Ireland? The site has been a talking point for many since the prison
closed but it is up to individuals to make up their own minds on the future use
instead of allowing themselves to be carried away with hype and myths."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INUS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                            August 07, 2012 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Call for calm, study shows most protests are in W Cape

BYLINE:  Babalo Ndenze Political Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 417 words


NEW RESEARCH shows the Western Cape - where the DA-led government has accused
the ANC of stoking violence - had nearly a quarter of all protests in the
country this year.

Now the ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) is calling for restraint and
asking community leaders to discourage violence.

The research, by Municipal IQ, showed protests were on the increase across the
country, with 113 so far this year, compared to two in 2006.

This year also accounted for 22 percent of all protests recorded since January
2004.

Karen Heese, economist at Municipal IQ, said "the trend of violent protests
remains a key concern", with 88 percent of protests last month turning violent.

Almost half the protests last month (46 percent) took place in informal
settlements. Heese said this highlighted "the desperation of these communities
living on the margins of local economies during the bitter winter months".

The research, "The Hotspots Monitor: major protests staged by community members
against a municipality", said protests were mostly to do with "perceived
responsibility of local government, such as councillor accountability, the
quality and pace of basic service delivery, and in metro areas, housing".

Heese said the Western Cape remained "the most protest-afflicted province in
2012", followed by the Free State.

The Western Cape accounted for 24 percent of protests, followed by the Free
State at 14 percent.

KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo had the lowest number of protests, both accounting for
just 6 percent of the national figure. "Political and community leaders should
try to channel community grievances constructively to avoid the violence and
destruction that has typified protests during 2012," said Heese.

And the ANC has echoed this call, with provincial secretary Songezo Mjongile
calling for restraint.

"The provincial executive committee calls on community leaders to discourage
violence and damage associated with service delivery protests as this gives room
to opportunistic elements who try to demonise legitimate demands," said
Mjongile, with reference to the DA's accusation that the ANC was responsible for
the wave of violent protests in the Western Cape.

Premier Helen Zille and Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille have filed criminal
charges against the party.

However, Mjongile blamed the DA for community anger. "The ANC calls on the
provincial and metro governments to give the same attention to issues raised by
the communities in the same way that it does to people in the leafy suburbs."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2012 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday

Azeris to stage week-long anti-Iranian protests in foreign countries - TV

LENGTH: 323 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani TV station ANS on 19 May

[Presenter] Anti-Iranian protests are to start today in different parts of the
world. The goal of the protests, which will last a week, is to oppose Tehran's
anti-Azerbaijani policies.

[Correspondent] Azeris in Germany and Denmark will hold mass protests outside
Iranian embassies in these countries. They will protest against Tehran's
anti-Azerbaijani policies and the pickets organized outside the Azerbaijani
Consulate General in Tabriz against the Baku-hosted Eurovision International
Song Contest. Anti-Iran protests will be held in the Netherlands, Sweden and
Italy tomorrow, and later in France, Britain, as well as outside the Pakistani
embassy which represents Iran's interests in the USA.

[Mahmud Ali Chehregani, captioned as Iranian political emigrant, speaking in
Azeri over phone from the USA] [A protest] will be held here on 22 [May]. [The
protests] will be held all over the world, and they should be held. Azerbaijanis
should protect their state, protect their flag, protect their independence,
should support their own state, 50m Azeris should shout to the world and show to
the Iranian regime that the Azerbaijani state is not alone, that there are 50m
supporting it, and that they will never allow the Iranian regime to inflict any
damage to this state.

[Correspondent] We should note that some clerics initiated protest marches
against Azerbaijan after Friday prayers in the Iranian cities of Tabriz, Ardabil
and Tehran yesterday. Tabriz residents say that special people invited by
individual organizations attended these protests.

A similar protest was held outside the Azerbaijani Consular Office in Tabriz on
8 May.

The Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry has said that no country has the right to
interfere in Azerbaijan's internal affairs. Azerbaijan is an independent state
which decides its policies independently.

Source: ANS TV, Baku, in Azeri 1000 gmt 19 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Iraqi Al-Sharqiyah TV news 1400 gmt 10 June 11

LENGTH: 269 words


1. 0035 Islamic Al-Da'wah (Call) Party "orchestrates" protest in centre of
Baghdad to block anti-government rally, Iraqi activists. Video report highlights
activists saying they were assaulted by government's loyalists.

2. 0429 Islamic Al-Da'wah Party accused of using tribal forces and plainclothes
policemen to attack protesters. Video report includes accounts by protesters
claiming they were beaten by men in traditional Arab robes.

3. 0853 Protesters defy attempts to disperse them from centre of Baghdad. Video
report.

4. 0941 Hundreds stage anti-government protest in Ziqar. Video report.

5. 1427 Activists post pictures on Facebook of alleged security agents carrying
weapons at Baghdad protest.

6. 1458 Anti-government protest in Al-Diwaniyah. Video report.

7. 1655 Protesters in Al-Najaf call for government to step down, corrupt
officials to be held accountable. Video report.

8. 2046 Hundreds stage protest in front of headquarters of Babil Province
government. Video report.

9. 2315 People call for social justice at Basra protest. Video report.

10. 2738 Protesters in Karbala call for political reform, freedom of expression.

11. 2826 Protest in Samarra' against arrest of activists. Video report.

12. 3240 Police cancel anti-government protest in Al-Muthana.

13. 3419 Soldiers prevent people from holding protest in Al-Fallujah, say it is
not authorized. Video report.

14. 3608 Security force disperses protesters in Mosul. Video report.

15. 3830 Calls for reform at Kirkuk protest.

16. 3915 Curfew in Diyala, Salah ald-Din to pre-empt protests. Video report.

Source: Al-Sharqiyah TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1400 gmt 10 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

Photo - PROTESTING A PROTEST

BYLINE:  Melanie Lidman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words


PROTESTING A PROTEST. Uri Agnon, along with Meydad Eliyahu, Shira Inbar and
David Kriksunov, all members of the art collective KRA, created a series of
black and white drawings in an artistic protest staged at Jerusalem's Museum on
the Seam Thursday night. The performance art, part of an evening sponsored by
Ruah Hadasha (New Spirit), a group for young Jerusalemites, was called 'Tea and
Opinions'and delved into the museum's current exhibit, 'The Right to Protest,'
and the importance and meaning of political protest in Jerusalem. Members of KRA
wanted to draw attention to the fact that little had been written about the
Baramkis, an Arab family that owned the house before it became an Israeli
military position on the old border with Jordan. The group traveled to Ramallah
to meet with Prof. Gabi Baramki, who was 15 when his family evacuated the house.
The drawings were based on this meeting. The exhibit will be at the Museum on
the Seam until the end of May.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Stand-alone photo

GRAPHIC: Photo: PROTESTING A PROTEST. Uri Agnon, along with Meydad Eliyahu,
Shira Inbar and David Kriksunov, all members of the art collective KRA, created
a series of black and white drawings in an artistic protest staged at
Jerusalem's Museum on the Seam Thursday night. The performance art, part of an
evening sponsored by Ruah Hadasha (New Spirit), a group for young Jerusalemites,
was called 'Tea and Opinions'and delved into the museum's current exhibit, 'The
Right to Protest,' and the importance and meaning of political protest in
Jerusalem. Members of KRA wanted to draw attention to the fact that little had
been written about the Baramkis, an Arab family that owned the house before it
became an Israeli military position on the old border with Jordan. The group
traveled to Ramallah to meet with Prof. Gabi Baramki, who was 15 when his family
evacuated the house. The drawings were based on this meeting. The exhibit will
be at the Museum on the Seam until the end of May. (Credit: Melanie Lidman)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 107

LENGTH: 139  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people outside the Hyderabad
Press Club on Tuesday. According to the details, the members of the Hyderabad
Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi, Ramzan
Brohi and others staged a protest demonstration against the Habib Group. A woman
namely Maqsooda Shaikh, resident of Mirpurkhas staged a protest demonstration
against the torture of her husband.

The women, residents of Matiari under the leadership of Hakimzadi, Sakina and
others staged a protest demonstration against actions of the Matiari Police. The
IDPs of district Jacobabad staged a protest demonstration against the
non-provision of facilities. The residents of district Tharparkar under the
leadership of Muhammad Ali Rahimo and others staged a protest demonstration in
favor of their demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 19, 2011 Wednesday

Slideshow: Leeds students hold silent EMA protest

BYLINE: John Baronguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 178 words

ABSTRACT

Dortmund Square and The Headrow play host to latest student cuts protest in
Leeds

FULL TEXT

Students took to the streets of Leeds for a silent protest against the
government's decision to scrap the  (EMA)

In the region of 40 students and trades unionists congregated in Dortmund Square
early yesterday evening to protest against the scrapping of EMA, a weekly
payment to the poorest 16 to 18-year-olds to help them stay in education.

The students wore tape across their mouths as a symbol of their silent protest
and waved banners. From Dortmund Square they moved onto the Headrow, in front of
The Halifax, to take their protest to passing peak-time traffic. Towards the end
of the protest, students took off their tape and began chanting against
education cuts and the coalition government. to be debated in the House of
Commons today calling on the government to "rethink its decision" to scrap the
EMA, which they hope coalition MPs will back.

What do you think? Have your say in the comments section below.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Iran conservative paper reports anti-war protests in London

LENGTH: 487 words


Text of commentary by Vahid Kucheh-Meshki headlined "Protests by the British
against war" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat on 24 November

Protests and demonstrations by British citizens against war-seeking approach of
the country continue in the Indian sub continent as well as in the Middle East.

British citizens have announced harsh protests several times and have asked
[David] Cameron and Nick Clegg to change their policies in this regard. However,
no reactions have been observed from the British government side.

Anti-war protests by British citizens have once again showed their anger towards
their politicians. Thousands of British people and peace -seeking activists
rushed to London streets in protest to the continuous war in Afghanistan. They
wanted to show their protest regarding the continuation of war in Afghanistan as
leaders of countries holding NATO membership gathered in Portugal [for the
summit].

Coordinators of this demonstration have said that 10,000 protesting people
gathered around in Hyde Park in Central London and marched a 2-kilometer
distance till "Traflgar" Square in order to join speeches that were made at the
square criticizing the war in Afghanistan.

This demonstration was arranged by three British organizations namely "Stop the
War Coalition", "Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament" and "Muslim Association of
Britain". "Stop the War Coalition" organization was established in September
2001 in less than two weeks after the 9/11 incident. According to the statements
by Andre Bargin, responsible for information dissemination of "Stop the War
Coalition" organization, these demonstrations had been very effective and have
drawn the attention of many British youths under 20 years of age.

This demonstration started at 1:00 p.m. [local time]. Protesters were waving
colourful banners and holding placards with slogans. They asked for the
evacuation of army from Afghanistan as well as announced their solidarity with
the people of Palestine.

Leaders of countries holding NATO membership attended a NATO gathering in
Lisbon, capital of Portugal on Friday and Saturday [19 and 20 November]. NATO
Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen evaluated this gathering as very
important for the future of military solidarity of NATO. It is expected that
NATO leaders come to an agreement on a strategy for evacuation of NATO troops
from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.

Nevertheless, Cameron and Nick Clegg cannot keep their ears blocked to these
strong shouts that ask for ending the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq.

Tony Blair's trial, the war-seeking British prime minister, during the attack on
Afghanistan and Iraq, has turned into one of the main wishes of the British
citizens. A wish, that will come true in the near future with the follow-up of
world's nation and people like Bush, Blair and Aznar will be punished for their
war crimes.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 24 Nov 10

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1475

LENGTH: 364  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the local people outside the
Hyderabad Press Club on Monday. According to details, the students of the
Faculty of Law University of Sindh Jamshoro under the leadership of Ayaz Korejo,
Mumtaz Ali and others staged a protest demonstration against the closing of the
Mitha Ram Hostel.

Members of the Kolhi community including Natho Kolhi, Paroo Kolhi and others
staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the accused involved in
threatening them. The workers of the PPP Kotri Chapter including Muhammad Achar
and others staged a protest demonstration against an influential landlord for
occupying their land.

Members of the Talpur community including Mir Amjad Talpur, Mir Khaleel Talpur
and others staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of 2 youths of their
community namely Liaquat Talpur and Nawaz Talpur. A man namely Ali Nawaz Mochi,
resident of village Karam Khan Nizamani District Matiari staged a protest
demonstration against an influential landlord namely Jam Riaz Gahoti for
abducting his wife, 2 sons and 2 daughters.

Members of the Sindh Agriculture Forestry Workers Coordinating Organization
(SAFWCO) under the leadership of Masood Soomro, Rasheed Chandio, Niaz Junejo
staged a protest demonstration against the shortage of water in Sindh.

The women of the Bagri community including Harman Bagri, Kishni and others
staged a protest demonstration for the removal of occupation of their
residential plot. Former Nazim of UC Khaan district Mirpurkhas, Mehboob Ali
Marri staged a protest demonstration against the officials of the Auqaf
Department Sindh. PPP workers of Tando Jam chapter under the leadership of Altaf
Hussain Unar and others staged a protest demonstration against the local PPP
leadership.

The residents of City Views Plaza Latifabad No. 7 staged a protest demonstration
against the opening of a wine shop in their area. A girl namely Ayesha Soomro
along with her family members staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of
Akbar Soomro. The reinstated employees of the Sui Southern Gas Company (SSGC)
staged a protest demonstration for issuance of their withheld salaries and
posting orders.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday

Pundit says recurrent protests in Morocco reflect absence of social justice

LENGTH: 475 words


Al-Jazeera TV reports on 6 April that sit-ins and protests have become a daily
occurrence in Morocco. While some experts deem this phenomenon to be a
by-product of expanding freedoms and growing political awareness of Moroccans,
others believe it is the outcome of socio-economic problems and ineffective role
of unions and political parties, says Al-Jazeera.

A report from Rabat highlights the case of an employee, who has staged a sit-in
and gone a hunger strike outside the Ministry of Education in an attempt to
overturn a decision for his dismissal.

The ministry employee, Mohamed, says "I won't leave this place until the
dismissal decision is repealed. Otherwise, I will die here surrounded by these
banners."

The report looks at both arguments that explain the growing phenomenon of
protests.

A young man is shown saying "protests that occur in Rabat on a daily basis
reflect the disastrous social condition that the intellectual class wants to
highlight through protests.

The report highlights the role of unions in raising the awareness of unemployed
youths of their right to protest.

Khadija, a unionist, says "we believe that going on strike is a legitimate right
guaranteed by the constitution. It is one of the mechanisms of union's work,
which is used to pressure government and employers if they don't abide by
agreements."

Observers criticize unions for being driven by political interests rather than
the interests of the public and say unions - torn by divisions - are following
the footsteps of ineffective political parties, says the report.

Al-Jazeera TV interviews a Moroccan sociologist, Abdelrahim El Itri. He says the
view that protests reflect the absence of social justice is more objective than
the argument saying protests signal growing political freedoms in Morocco. "
Protests indicate that there is tension and public disgruntlement. This is
proven by the fact that protests are essentially staged to express
socio-economic demands. Those protests in all forms mainly demand the
redistribution of wealth and the rewriting of a new history of social justice,"
says El Itri.

He says he has done a study on protests in Morocco, which showed that they
quickly fizzle and fail to achieve economic demands and are usually met with
violence and lack of responsiveness by the authorities.

Protests in Morocco are expanding to include, along with unemployed people,
members of other groups and classes, such as villagers and women, El Itri says.

"Many protests nowadays lack political orientation in contrast to protests in
the past, which were directed by political parties. The latter seem to have
given up this role. Nowadays, there is another player; local associations are
now playing an important role in protests and taking over the role of political
parties," El Itri says.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2130 gmt 6 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The Russian Business Monitor (Russia)

                            December 29, 2008 Monday

POLLS SHOW SOCIAL PROTEST WELL BELOW THE CRITICAL LEVEL;
Recent opinion polls show fewer than a third of respondents expecting any
increase in protest activity in Russia - and even fewer say they would be
prepared to join protests. Pollsters report a certain increase in protest moods,
but assess it as being well below a critical level. They also question the
opposition's ability to head or even strengthen the protests.

SECTION: HUMAN RESOURCES; No. 285

LENGTH: 247 words


According to the All-Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VTsIOM), 30% of
respondents believe that mass protests could happen in their respective
locations in the near future; this figure was only 21% in a March poll. "These
trends never reached their peak," said VTsIOM Director Valery Fyodorov. "I
recall that 47% of respondents expected mass protests in March 2005, right after
the social benefits-to-money conversion."

"Actually, nothing extraordinary is happening in terms of protest mood changes,"
said Levada Center Director Lev Gudkov. "As far as we can tell, 23% expect mass
protests, 21% say they are ready to join them, but only about 1.5% will actually
do so. If even 15% actually resolved to join street protests, it would have been
a colossal social breakthrough. Not even rallies in Moscow in the perestroika
days would have equalled that."

Pollsters doubt that any opposition party stands a chance of heading or even
strengthening protests. Former opposition leaders (Boris Nemtsov, Gennadi
Zyuganov) "are distrusted," and younger leaders (Maria Gaidar, Ilya Yashin,
Sergei Udaltsov) "remain unknown to the masses." Gudkov added that the
opposition needs "new leaders as well as a policy program that will interest the
public. And they also lack media channels to promote such a program."

At the same time, it is common knowledge that the opposition itself prefers
contacts with the authorities to contacts with the general public.

Source: Kommersant, December 26, 2008

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            December 22, 2008 Monday

Police Insiders Stand for Candlelit Protests

BYLINE: By Bae Ji-sook

LENGTH: 332 words


Staff Reporter

Who was behind the candlelit protest against American beef imports that lit up
the streets of downtown Seoul and major cities nationwide? Was it the
progressive and "impure" people seeking to "overthrow" society, as police
concluded?

Some police insiders have come up with a new idea ¤Ñ the protests were pure
expressions of the general public's resentment of the government, and police
should deal with such cases with "respect" and "flexibility," they said.

Prof. Kwon Yong-cheol of the National Central Police Academy and Prof. Lim
Seung-taek of the Korea National Police University, both high ranking officials
in the police hierarchy, stood against the police's excessive suppression of the
events.

Kwon said candlelit protestors took to the streets on their own, just like the
April 19 pro-democratic movement in 1960 and March 1 Liberation Declaration
Movement in 1919 under Japanese colonial rule (1910-1945).

He said the few progressive activists, whom the police chose as agitators, lost
power during the protest movement. "They came up with theories against the free
trade agreement with the U.S. but did not lead the protests rather they followed
the crowd," he said.

Kwon stressed that police should be more open to change in society and
acknowledge that the protest was led by teenagers, women and senior citizens.

Lim said police need to guarantee ordinary citizens' rights to "hold protests
and gatherings." However, he said they have tried to restrain such gatherings by
declaring the nighttime protests illegal. "The Constitution actually allows all
kinds of protests but some police rules are hindering their spirit," he said.

Currently, chiefs of police stations approve of protests if they are "peaceful"
enough and the candlelit protests were considered near-rebellion and later
prohibited, he said.

The candlelit protests first ignited on May 2, with several Internet users
expressing their objection toward government policies. They carried on until
late August.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOW TO PROTEST STATE CONTRACTS

BYLINE: Nicole H. King, Meyer Unkovic & Scott, nhk@muslaw.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS WORKSHOP; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 204 words


To ensure equal access, state agencies award contracts through a competitive
bidding process, which begins by sending out a "request for proposal."

The law permits businesses to protest the RFP if they feel that the terms and
conditions are unfair.

If successful in lodging a protest, business owners can compel a state agency to
amend the RFP and extend the deadline for submission of proposals.

The time a business owner has to submit such a protest can vary depending on
whether the business owner is a prospective or an actual bidder. A prospective
bidder, or a business that simply receives the RFP, may protest the proposal
until the RFP deadline. But bidders have only seven days from the date they
became aware of the grounds for protest, which unfortunately, is usually
considered to be the day the business received the RFP.

This point was at the heart of a recent court decision upholding a pharmacy's
protest of an RFP. The court held the pharmacy's protest was timely because the
pharmacy did not bid on the contract. Had the pharmacy bid on the contract,
however, the court would not have upheld the pharmacy's right to protest, since
the pharmacy's protest was filed more than seven days after it received the RFP.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business workshop is a weekly feature from local experts offering tidbits
on matters affecting business.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              347 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday

Over 800 protest gatherings staged in Iran in the past year - Agency

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report by Iranian news agency website Alborz news on 24 Sep

According to a survey conduced by Alborz news, in 1384 [year beginning 21 March
2005], there were some 838 demonstrations or protest gatherings in Iran. These
included protests by unions, political activists, workers, students, cultural
and academic activists.

Of these protest gatherings, those staged by workers and unions constituted the
highest number with 71 per cent of the total, and those staged by cultural
activists the lowest, with four per cent. Protest by political activists made up
just over seven per cent of the total.

The report adds: Of these protest gatherings, almost 574 of them were
demonstrations by workers over their work conditions. There were 86 cases of
student demonstrations, constituting 9.7 per cent of the total, and 62 reported
cases of political demonstrations, constituting 7.3 per cent of the total.

There were 62 demonstrations related to social issues, and 34 to cultural ones,
constituting 10.2 and four per cent of the total, respectively. [All figures as
published]

Source: Iranian news agency website Alborz, in Persian, 0000 gmt 24 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Valuation protests nearing record

BYLINE: Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, NE


Whether or not there will be a record number of property valuation protests this
year is still unclear.

Chief Deputy County Clerk Trish Owen said Monday morning that she didn't yet
have an exact number of protests but that the number is "pretty darn close" to
10,500.

Owen said she was pretty sure all protests that were due by the June 30 deadline
have been received by the County Clerk's office and accounted for.

But there are about 920 property owners who received late valuation notices and
have additional time to file a protest.

If 10 percent of those property owners file protests - about the same percentage
of all property owners who file a protest - the final number would likely
surpass the all-time record of 10,528 protests filed in 1987.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday

Macedonia: Tetovo mufti's office denies role in Muhammad cartoons protest

LENGTH: 343 words


Excerpt from report by EA entitled "Due to controversial cartoon, call for
protests in Tetove" published by Macedonian Albanian-language newspaper Fakti on
10 February

Members of the Tetove [Tetovo] mufti's office have said that they are not behind
the protests, but that they support the position of the Islamic Religious
Community of Macedonia [BFIM].

A "group of students" from Tetove [Tetovo] distributed a large number of
leaflets in mosques and public locations yesterday, inviting citizens to
participate in the protest against the cartoons of Prophet Muhammad that have
been published in Denmark and other Western countries. The protest has been
scheduled to start today at 0800 gmt at the Larme mosque in Tetove.

"Hey you, who claim to be descendants of Muhammad, what has happened to you? Did
we forget Muhammad, who came as a blessing for this world and from whom we
expect mercy on Judgment Day? You must fear Almighty God," said the leaflet that
has been distributed in Tetove.

According to the organizers of the protest, "silence and failure to attend the
protest are an indication of brotherhood, cooperation and friendship with
Satan". The leaflet says that the protest organizers are a "group of students,"
without providing further explanations about who is truly behind this
invitation.

Members of the Tetove mufti's office said that they were not behind the protest,
but added that they support the position of the Islamic Religious Community of
Macedonia. On 8 February, the BFIM leaders requested that all the imams dedicate
Friday prayers in mosques on 10 and 17 February to the life and work of
Muhammad.

"We do not organize protests, but we are also unable to hamper the free will of
the citizens if they decide to support the protest. However, I appeal to those
who wish to participate in the protest that they must act in a dignified and
modern manner and protest in a democratic way," Tetove Mufti Alifekri Esati told
our paper.

[Passage omitted: Esati says protesters must not use violence]

Source: Fakti, Skopje, in Albanian 10 Feb 06 p 5

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                    October 10, 2002 Thursday Final Edition

Quebec Crown prosecutors protest working conditions: Provincewide walkout
protests imposed working conditions

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen; with files from The Canadian Press

BYLINE: Jean-Francois Bertrand

SECTION: City; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 406 words

Crown prosecutors across Quebec walked off the job for a few hours yesterday to
protest government-imposed working conditions.

It was the second such protest in a week, with prosecutors saying Justice
Minister Paul Begin had broken an agreement made with the prosecutors last year
that would allow them to negotiate collective agreements.

In Gatineau, 14 prosecutors marched in front of the courthouse, wearing signs
taped to the backs of their court gowns with messages such as "Paul Begin,
minister of injustice."

The walkout, which lasted until 2 p.m., affected about 100 court cases.

Quebec's 307 Crown attorneys had expected to resume negotiations with the
government to improve work conditions and salaries.

But Mr. Begin last week unilaterally set working conditions through a
ministerial decree.

And, at a press conference in Quebec City yesterday, Mr. Begin reaffirmed the
government's intention to forbid prosecutors from going on strike.

Mr. Begin's press secretary, Claude Potvin, said the minister's decree dealt
with most of the agreed-upon issues between the prosecutors and the government.
As for the prosecutors' right to negotiate collective agreements, that will be
addressed by a bill to be presented to the National Assembly, she said.

Claude Girard, president of Quebec's association of Crown prosecutors, is angry
the prosecutors have not yet seen the contents of the proposed bill.

"The minister talks of negotiating, but he proceeds unilaterally. We were to
meet and discuss, yet Mr. Begin is imposing his views," Mr. Girard said from
Montreal.

Ms. Potvin said that talks between the Crown attorneys and the province's
treasury board will soon resume to settle the salary question.

In August, provincial mediator Gilles Ferland recommended the prosecutors'
minimum annual salary be raised to $43,500 from the current $35,500. The report
also suggested that the maximum salary be increased to $102,000 from nearly
$95,000.

But Mr. Girard said the Ferland report compared Quebec prosecutors with their
federal counterparts rather than with those from other provinces.

In Ontario, for example, provincial prosecutors earn a maximum of $165,000
annually, while a senior Crown counsel is paid about $133,000.

The prosecutors are also waiting to see the results of a study comparing their
workload and compensation with that of their colleagues in the other provinces.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clement Allard, The Canadian Press; Paul Begin says the Quebec
government will not allow prosecutors to have the right to strike.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                            August 20, 2001, Monday

Mayors protest budget cuts

BYLINE: David Rudge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words


More than 20 council heads from confrontation-line communities in the North
demonstrated outside the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem yesterday to
protest against budget cuts.

The protesters held aloft placards stating that the cuts were as bad as
Hizbullah's Katyusha rocket attacks on their communities.

According to the mayors and council leaders, funding from the Interior,
Education, and Health Ministries are being reduced by a total of NIS 50 million.

Given rising unemployment in the region, particularly in Western Galilee, the
council heads have been pressing for additional financing.

They also stressed that the threat of terror attacks from across the Lebanon
border had not abated, despite the relative quiet following the IDF's withdrawal
in May last year.

Shlomo Buhbut, chairman of the forum of heads of confrontation line communities,
stressed that successive governments had pledged to strengthen towns and
villages in the North because of the security situation.

The region also suffers from economic problems and has not managed to attract
industry and other enterprises because of its distance from the center of the
country and from the ports and rail networks.

The IDF has also ceased sending soldiers to guard communities, and guarding is
now done by local residents or by private security firms hired by the local
authorities.

At one stage, the protesting council heads threatened to break into the Prime
Minister's Office, but were stopped by police.

Buhbut, who is mayor of Ma'alot-Tarshiha in the Galilee, shouted through a
megaphone to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon that the council leaders would not
accept the budget cuts. He warned that the communities would not open schools on
September 2 and that welfare and social services would be shut down unless the
cutbacks are rescinded.

Other council heads, among them Mufeed Amar, chairman of Hurfeish local council,
said the situation is particularly bad in the Druse village and that the
municipal budget is so badly overdrawn that salaried might not be paid.

We want to ask the prime minister to return to us the money that has been cut
from our budgets because we are already finding it difficult to function
properly Amar told reporters at the demonstration.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 The Jerusalem Post


                              352 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Blacktown Advocate (Australia)

                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday
                               Blacktown Edition

FOUR ARRESTS AT ANTI-MULTICULTURALISM PROTEST

BYLINE: Jessica Oxford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 301  words


FOUR men were arrested after allegedly carrying weapons during anti-Sudanese and
Middle Eastern protests at Blacktown CBD on Saturday.

Up to 20 members of the Party for Freedom gathered outside Blacktown train
station, calling for "the deportation of Sudanese and Middle Eastern gangs" and
to reinstall the White Australia policy.

"We need to abolish multiculturalism - the most failed policy of all," protest
organiser Nick Folkes said. "This policy has brought more decline and division
to Australia and all Western countries." Outside Main St's 7-Eleven shop, Antifa
Sydney organised a counter protest, the Blacktown Rally Against Racism, where
between 50 and 60 people joined the group.

Chifley Greens candidate Eliza James was part of the protest and slammed the
opposing side.

"We want to contrast the xenophobic propaganda out there," she said. "We want to
stand in solidarity with migrants and we support multiculturalism in Blacktown."
Blacktown police crime manager Detective Inspector Paul Tickner said 50 officers
were on standby to ensure the protest was a peaceful event.

A 50m buffer zone was erected between the two protests to stop brawls from
breaking out.

"It's better to be over-prepared than underprepared for any protests," Det-Insp
Tickner said.

Police allege four men left the Antifa protest and continued to David Lane where
one man lifted another up to the shops' guttering.

The 19-year-old Blacktown man allegedly removed a set of knuckle dusters and
jumped down.

Police said the knuckle dusters and another pair belonging to a 19-year-old
Lalor Park man were seized.

The men, along with a 20-year-old Greystanes man and a 22-year-old Rooty Hill
man, were arrested and charged with possessing a prohibited weapon without
permission.The men are due to appear before Blacktown Court on July 14.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Blacktown Advocate


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            August 9, 2014 Saturday

SDPI carried out mass protest against Israel's imprudent attacks on Gaza

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: Bangalore


Bangalore, Aug. 9 -- Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) carried out a grand
protest rally against Israeli aggression in Gaza, here at Town Hall on August 8.

Protesters gathered near Town Hall.

Over 3000 people partook in the protest. The protestors were demanding the Govt.
of India to snap ties with Israel.

Meanwhile, the protest march was supposed to end at Israel Embassy. However, it
failed to reach the venue, as police arrested some of the party leaders during
the protest.

Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, Karnataka will also organize similar protest on August 9 at
the same venue.

courtesy:Karnataka Muslims

http://www.karnatakamuslims.com/portal/sdpi-carried-out-mass-protest-aga...

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                           February 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

No quick fix for protests |- study

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 269 words


Curtailing protests in South Africa required long-term economic and
institutional changes, Johannesburg University researchers said yesterday.

"There cannot be short-term fixes, there needs to be real and substantial
change," said Carin Runciman, who specialises in the politics of protests and
social movements.

Professor Peter Alexander, South African research chair in social change and
sociology, said the focus on the service delivery dimension of protests was
often misplaced.

"Protests are not just about service delivery. Community protests are more of a
rebellion of the poor."

The poor were marginalised, and frequently stigmatised, and had limited means to
make their grievances meaningfully heard.

The research was based on over 250 interviews and drew data from four media
sources, covering more than 2 000 protests since 2004. It divided protests into
three categories - peaceful, disruptive, and violent.

Runciman said there had been a general rise in protest action since 2004, with
peaks in 2009 and last year.

"There is no clear relationship between protests and elections." Just after the
2009 general elections, however, an increase was noted. A possible explanation
was that people believed President Jacob Zuma would make substantial changes to
everyday lives, but when this did not happen, people resorted to protesting.

The research indicated that most communities began by expressing their
discontent peacefully, but this was frequently met with minimal response. The
protest would then become disruptive before becoming violent. The presence of
police also sometimes exacerbated the violence. - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 14, 2013 Monday

BRIEF: Georgia hosts protests against Russia's actions on constructing fences
along administrative border

BYLINE: N. Kirtzkhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 221 words


Oct. 14--TBILISI, Georgia -- Seven cities of Georgia held protests against
Russia's actions on constructing fences.

Citizens lined up in a human chain during the protests.

Protests started simultaneously at 15:00 on the central streets of Tbilisi,
Rustavi, Kutaisi, Telavi, Gori, Batumi, and Zugdidi. Young people lined up in a
human chain for 15 minutes.

Starting from the May of this year, Russian border guards have been actively
setting barbed wire along the administrative border of the Tskhinvali region
(the so-called South Ossetia) According to the Georgian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, in some areas the line goes deeper into Georgian territory.The same
processes are observed at the administrative border with Abkhazia.

Large scale military action was launched in South Ossetia on August 8, 2008.
Later, Russian troops occupied Tskhinvali and expelled the Georgian military.

Russia recognised the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia in late August.
In response, Tbilisi ended diplomatic relations with Moscow and has called the
two unrecognised republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia occupied territories.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131014-1AZ-BRF-Georgia-hosts-protests
-against-Russia-s-actions-on-constructing-fences-along-administrative-border-101
4-20131014

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              358 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                              Business Day Edition

Western Cape hit hardest by service-delivery protests

BYLINE: SETUMO STONE

SECTION: SOCIAL ISSUES

LENGTH: 442  words


Western Cape hit hardest by service-delivery protests

SA EXPERIENCED a phenomenal rise in service-delivery protests last month, with
the Western Cape being the most protest-afflicted province, according to the
Municipal IQ's Hotspots Monitor, which records major protests staged against
local government.

The report indicates that the number of service delivery protests this year is
likely to eclipse the peaks of 2009 and 2010, with last month recording more
protests than any month since 2004.

Last weekend five violent protests were reported in Siyahlala informal
settlement in Philippi near Gugulethu, Cape Town, with residents demanding that
electricity be installed in their shacks.

Municipal IQ's Karen Heese said that protests last month included demands for
housing in Cape Town to a cluster of North West protests for tarred roads. & The
worrying theme was that they were violent and demonstrated high levels of
frustration,& said Ms Heese.

This comes as critics have cautioned that the African National Congress' (ANC's)
latest march against a painting depicting President Jacob Zuma's genitals might
set a precedent that could overwhelm the party and government.

However, the Democratic Alliance-led government in the Western Cape seems to be
at the receiving end of the protest action, despite reports of widespread
dissatisfaction with the performance of the ANC across the country.

According to the Hotspot Monitor, the ANC-led government in Gauteng province saw
a fall in protest activity, which Municipal IQ MD Kevin Allen attributed to a &
policing solution& quot;A policing solution to contain violence and destruction
of property is certainly relevant, but it is important for local government,
especially councillors, to acknowledge protests (without justifying violence)
and to be seen to be acting on the valid grievances of protestors,& he said.

Halfway through this year, 67 major protests were recorded, with the highest
record standing at 111 in 2010 - which were mostly linked to inter- and
intra-party political contestation ahead of the local government elections last
year.

Political analyst Steven Friedman said while the Municipal IQ study relied on
media reports, the actual numbers could be higher than reported.

& What we know is that we continue to have a high level of protests since 2004,
mostly because there is a widespread feeling among people in townships and
informal settlements that local government workers do not listen.& Spokesman for
Western Cape Premier Zak Mbhele said the provincial government was continuously
trying to engage communities over developments but public participation remained
low.

stones@bdfm.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             July 24, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged in Larkana

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1598

LENGTH: 149  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands in Larkana on Friday.

According to details, the members of the All Pakistan Clerk Association (APCA)
BISE Larkana unit staged a protest demonstration against the Chairman of the
Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education on illegal appointments in
OSD-BPS-17 post with out any advertisement.

The activists of the Sindh National Party (SNP) Labour Federation district
Larkana recorded a protest demonstration against anti-Sindh projects including
the CJ Link Canal, Greater Thal Canal and others. The members of the Watan Dost
Mazdoor Federation Sindh Larkana led by Manzoor Ahmed Kumbhar took out a protest
rally against the non-provision of facilities. A large number of the citizens
staged a protest demonstration against the CMC Hospital administration on
non-provision of medical facilities to the patients.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Albanian Socialists' leader launches anti-government protest "battle"

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

[Report by Anila Struga: "Opposition Protests To Guarantee Transparency of
Future Elections"]

Tirana, 30 April (ATA) -- The opposition protests today to guarantee the
transparency of future elections, not to take power on the table, Socialist
Party [PS] Chairman Edi Rama said on Friday [30 April].

"This is a battle for a European Albania and against the phenomena that have
hindered visa liberalization," Rama said in his address at the protest.

"The protest of the opposition is also a protest against the difficult economic
situation of Albanian citizens," he added.

Rama said he was determined to go on with the protest which, he said, "is a
battle of great aspirations which we are ready to push ahead with".

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1925 gmt 30 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan: Protest rallies observed across Pakistan in favour of Dr Aafia

LENGTH: 388  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Feb. 06 -- The Pakistan Professional Forum has observed protest rally
in favor of Dr Aafia Siddiqui after convicting her by the US jury.According to
Our Correspondent, the protest rally was started from Blue Area to China Chowk,
addressing the protest rally the Naib Ameer of Jamat-e-Islami Punjab Mian
Muhammad Aslam has said that the people of Pakistan could not accept the US jury
verdict because Dr Aafia was innocent and time was not far when she would be
released.He also urged President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Syed Yusuf
Raza Gilani to bring Pervez Musharraf to face the court. The central leader of
Jamat-e-Islami Asif Luqman Qazi said that if Dr Aafia Siddiqui was not released,
the serial of rallies would continue until her release.He said that if Aafia
Siddiqui had committed any crime then her trial should have been held in
Pakistani's court.

He said that Pakistan should quit from the so called US alliance and war against
terror.Earlier President Asif Ali Zardari has directed the government to
establish contact with Dr Aafia Siddiqui's family.Meanwhile the protest rallies
were observed in all over the country against the US jury's judgment convicted
Dr Afiya Siddiqui. several organizations in all cities of Pakistan held protest
rallies while a huge rally was observed in Quetta to show sympathy with Dr Aafia
Siddiqui.Talking to a protest rally Dr Fauzia Siddiqui, the sister of Dr Aafia
Siddiqui has appealed the people of Pakistan to stand against US jury's verdict
and convey the message to US government.Talking to a private TV channel, Dr
Farogh Naseem, a famous lawyer has said that if any appeal was not registered
against the US jury's verdict then it would be the final verdict.Another protest
rally was held in Karachi organized by PASBAN where hundreds of people observed
protest and demanded that Dr Aafia Siddiqui was innocent therefore she should be
released as soon as possible.The students have also held a protest rally in
Gujranwala and the participants of the rally demanded from Pakistani government
to support Dr Aafia Siddiqui and put pressure on US government for the release
of Dr Aafia. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.
For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

Journalists of closed Egyptian opposition weekly launch protest

LENGTH: 350 words


[Unattributed report: "the journalists of al-Sha'b newspaper launch an open
protest requesting the fulfilment of their demands."]

Cairo al-Sha'b WWW-Text in Arabic, weekly newspaper, affiliated with the
opposition Labour Party of Egypt, on 08 June 2009, carries an unattributed
1,200-word report entitled: "the journalists of al-Sha'b newspaper launch an
open protest, saying that they will continue the protest until their demands are
met."

The report says that the journalists of the newspaper al-Sha'b "launched a
protest in front of the premises of the Supreme Press Council," adding: "the
protest started at 1200 hours and ended at 1900 hours on 06 June 2009."

The report explains that the protest was staged after Chairman of the Supreme
Press Council, Safwat al-Sharif, "refused to receive the journalists."

The protesting journalists said that they will "escalate the protest until all
their demands are met," adding: "they would escalate the protest to the point of
entering into a hunger strike until death if their demands are not met."

The journalists denounced the failure of the concerned institutions to pay their
insurance dues, and noted that the "continued closure of the newspaper al-Sha'b
was an infringement on the constitution and law."

The protesting journalists denounced the government inaction concerning their
loss of jobs for the tenth consecutive year without trying to find a solution
for their problem. They pointed out that they continued to receive the same
salaries fixed in May 2000 when the newspaper was closed.

The report adds that the Editor-In-Chief of the al-Sha'b electronic newspaper,
Khalid Yusuf. Submitted two memos to the National Council of Human Rights. It
explained that one of the memos dealt with the salaries and benefits of the
suspended newspaper al-Sha'b while the other memo said that 14 court rulings
were issued since the newspaper's closure in May 2009 by the Supreme
Administrative Court revoking the decision suspending the newspaper, but no
action was taken to allow the republication of the newspaper.

Source: Al-Sha'b, Cairo, in Arabic 8 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                            December 26, 2008 Friday

PUBLIC DOUBT

BYLINE: Victor Khamrayev

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 255

LENGTH: 325 words



HIGHLIGHT: SOCIOLOGISTS REPORT A GROWTH OF PROTEST MENTALITY BUT ESTIMATE IT AS
WELL BEYOND THE CRITICAL LEVEL; Few Russians seem to be of the mind to join
protests.


Every third Russian (or less) expects any increase in activeness of protests in
the country and even less than that are prepared to join protests. Sociologists
report a certain growth of protest mentality in Russia but estimate it as well
beyond the critical level. They also doubt the abilities of the opposition to
head or even strengthen the protests.

According to the All-Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VTsIOM), 30% of the
respondents allow for the possibility of mass protests in their respective
cities or towns in the near future. This March, VTsIOM sociologists reported
this possibility allowed for by only 21%. "These trends never reached their
peak," VTsIOM Director General Valery Fyodorov said. "I recall that 47%
respondents expected mass protests in March 2005, right after the so called
social benefits-to-money conversion."

"Actually, nothing extraordinary is happening in terms of protest mentality
changes," Levada-Center Director Lev Gudkov said. "As far as we can judge, 23%
expect mass protests, 21% pledge readiness to join them, but only about 1.5%
will actually do so."

"Had it been even 15% actually resolved to join street protests, it would have
been a colossal social breakthrough," Gudkov said. "Not even rallies in Moscow
in the perestroika days would have paralleled them."

Sociologists meanwhile doubt that any opposition party stands a chance to head
or even strengthen the protests. Former opposition leaders (Boris Nemtsov,
Gennadi Zyuganov) "are distrusted", and younger ones (Maria Gaidar, Ilya Yashin,
Sergei Udaltsov) "remain unknown to the masses". Gudkov added that the
opposition needed "new leaders as well as a program that will interest society.
And they lack information channels to promote this program as well."

At the same time, it is common knowledge that the opposition itself prefers
contacts with the authorities to those with the population.

Source: Kommersant, No 237, December 26, 2008, p. 3

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            March 11, 2003, Tuesday

STUDENTS MARCH IN ANTI-WAR PROTEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 176 words


MORE than 50 students from Cardiff University walked out of their lectures to
take part in a protest against a war in Iraq. The protest yesterday afternoon
was intended to keep up the momentum after the national anti-war protest in
London last month.

The protest was a practice run for the intended protest at the Aneurin Bevan
statue in Queen Street on the first day of war.

The group turned shoppers' heads in Queen Street as they carried banners and
chanted anti-war slogans.

Some of the protesters felt the march would have little effect.

Francis McInally, a third-year geography student from Cardiff, said: "Blair and
Bush will go ahead with war despite public opinion."

# Meanwhile, an American couple are in Cardiff this week as part of a year-long
trip around the world to promote peace.

Dan and Diana Geiger, from Montana, are members of the Baha'i faith and will be
in South Wales until this Wednesd ay.

For more information on the Baha'i, contact their host Kamyar Solhjoo on 029
2088 1312 or visit www.bahai.org

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              367 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                             May 27, 2015 Wednesday

Social protests on the rise

BYLINE: LERATO DIALE

LENGTH: 175 words


SOUTH Africa has experienced a 96% increase in social protests since 2010,
according to the Institute of Race Relations (IRR). Using figures from the SAPS
2013-14 annual report, the institute says during the last two years there were
11668 peaceful crowd-related incidents, 1907 unrest-related incidents, and 1691
incidents of public violence.

These included major service delivery protests, industrial action, demarcation
issues, and conflict between political parties.

IRR research analyst Gabriela Mackay says the social protests occurred mainly in
areas where there had been wasteful government expenditure.

"The trend for major protests shows that there is a greater rate of occurrence
in areas with high levels of fruitless and wasteful government expenditure."

There were 176 major service delivery protests last year.  Multiple factors
played a role in service delivery protests as the Western Cape had the lowest
level of fruitless and wasteful expenditure, but 14% of major service delivery
protests occurred in the province, Mackay said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

JUI-F to organize protest rallies against attacks on its chief

SECTION: Vol. 19 No. 325

LENGTH: 240  words


Central Majlis e Shoora of Jamiat UlemaeIslam Fazl on Wednesday decided to
organize rallies across the country from Dec 5, to protest against suicide
attack on its chief Maulana FazlurRehman last month.

Addressing a press conference, Secretary General JUIF Maulana Abdul Ghafoor
Haideri said MajliseShoora has approved a series of protest rallies from Dec 5
in four provincial capitals.

While giving detail of protest schedule, he informed that on Dec 9 protest
rallies would be organized on district level, January 2 on Tehsil level, Jan 16
and 30 countrywide and on February 27 protest rally would be organized in
Islamabad.

He said that this is our constitutional right to register protest against
violence on our party workers and suicide attacks on our party leadership
including JUIF Chief Maulana Fazl ur Rehman.

He said that the whole family of Maulana Fazlur Rehman was being targetted by
the unknown elements. In last few months it was third attack on Maulana followed
by attacks on his brother, son and his house.

Expressing dissatisfaction on investigations of attacks, he said his party wants
to know real facts and motives behind attack on Maulana and family.

He said Balochistan government did not inform the party about any progress in
investigations of Quetta suicide attack on Maulana.

JUIF leaders including Maulana Amjad Khan, Malik Sikandar, Aslam Ghauri, Qari
Usman, Haji Qayyum and others were also present on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 2-3

LENGTH: 501  words


AROUND 300 Support Stafford Hospital campaigners marched on health bosses this
week in the latest phase of their campaign to keep maternity and children's
services.

And there were angry scenes at the annual meeting of the Stafford and Surrounds
Clinical Commissioning Group.

One member of the public called for a vote of no confidence in the health body,
made up of local GPs who commission services from hospitals and health
providers.

And another shouted: "How do we get rid of you?"

Campaigner Karen Howells claimed that moving the children's ward and
consultant-led maternity services out of Stafford was "a disaster waiting to
happen".

Mrs Howells, who is planning to fight the Stafford parliamentary seat for the
National Health Action Party, said other hospitals across the area were already
working at full capacity, with no slack in the system to take on Stafford
patients.

"This is highly dangerous," she said. "Stop the transfer of services before
lives are lost."

And she told CCG board members: "You are not listening to what local people
want. We want our maternity, paediatrics and A&E services to stay."

Jan Kelly, from Hixon, raised concerns about delays at the University Hospital
of North Staffordshire's A&E department, where she said patients were left
waiting on trolleys.

"I do not have confidence in UHNS and I do not have confidence in your choices
for me," she told the board.

Campaigner Julian Porter, from Brocton, queried the cost of moving services out
of Stafford, which he said amounted to over £300 million in its impact on other
hospitals.

"It seems to me you are spending £320 million to solve a £9 million CCG
deficit," he said.

Stafford borough councillor Rowan Draper challenged the CCG to provide evidence
that patients were consulted, and called for more input from health
professionals into decision-making.

"The CCG should remove voting members who are not clinical professionals," he
said.

"We need to get clinicians and other health staff in there making the
decisions."

CCG chief executive Andy Donald denied that it was decomissioning a
"significant" amount of services at Stafford.

"We are still paying for these services, though they will be provided
elsewhere," he said. "And we are proposing to commission enhanced services at
Stafford."

He said patients were consulted in all decision-making, and the CCG put quality
and safety at the heart of its work.

"We are more invasive than most CCGs in checking on health trusts and we are
absolutely focused on ensuring patients are safe," he said. "The CCG supports
Stafford Hospital. We support it in actions, in words and in resources."

But he said the organisation, which has a cumulative £18 m deficit to repay over
the next few years, faced pressures from rising patient expectations,
constraints on public spending, and the challenge of reshaping services for
future needs.

"We are not unique in that," Mr Donald said. "Similar problems of money and
clinical sustainability exist in places as diverse as Leeds, London and Sussex."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST... Brothers Will Hadley, 2, and Jack Hadley, 6, join the
protest.
PROTEST...The march arrives at the CCG meeting.
PROTEST... Cheryl Porter talks to a TV crew.
PROTEST...Chris Baron, Ann Edgeller, Anne-Marie Westron and Sue Bennett lead the
march.
PROTEST... A young campaigner gets a good view.
PROTEST... Mums get the message across.
PROTEST... The march on its way through Beaconside.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                             March 17, 2014 Monday

Protest at 'corruption' in Turkey

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 133  words


Scores  of people gathered at the  weekend for a protest directed at the Turkish
government.

The protest, at Leicester Clock Tower on Saturday afternoon, was sparked by the
death of 15-year-old Berkin Elvan, who had been in a coma for nine months.

Berkin was hit on the head by a police gas cannister during anti-government
protests in Istanbul last summer.

Leicester protest  organiser Burcu Erdogan, 24, of Beaumont Leys, said: "We
wanted to show our support for the family of the young boy who died and raise
awareness of what's going on back home.

"We want to stop the dictatorship and fascism.

"We are here to show our support for our country and to make it clear that we
want change."

The protesters said they were campaigning against government corruption and the
suppression of freedom of speech.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2013 Thursday

Egypt's Tamarrud movement denounces draft protest bill

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 17 October: Tamrrud Movement, that spearheaded the 30 June protest that
helped topple Muhammad Morsi, denounced the protest bill approved by the
government, saying it restricts the right of peaceful assembly, an important
gain of 25 January revolution.

Non-peaceful assembly should be addressed by law without taking any step to
tight the noose on peaceful protesters, Muhammad Abd-al-Aziz, the movement's
political liaison official [said].

A number of political forces and rights groups have also criticized the draft
that was referred by the government to interim President Adli Mansur for review.

Under the 21-article bill, citizens have the right to organize and join
meetings, parades and demonstrations under certain conditions but bans using
places of worship as gathering points for protests. Demonstrators are also
banned from possessing weapons, ammunition, fireworks and face-covering masks.

To organize a protest, organizers should request permission from the police
station responsible for the intended site of protest 24 hours in advance. Such
permission should include the location and the pathway of the protest, start and
end time, the issue which the protest is concerned with, its demands and the
names of the organizers of the protest.

The law obliges the minister of interior to address the authorities concerned
with the demands of the protest to try to find solutions.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0542gmt 17 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           August 28, 2013 Wednesday

Pakistan: ECP takes notice of PTI PP-150 rigging protest

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Aug. 28 -- The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) has taken notice
of the protest of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) against rigging during the
by-election in PP-150.

The ECP has decided to hear the PTI's petition seeking a recount in PP-150 and
summoned all candidates who contested for the seat on August 28.

The PTI continues its protest against alleged rigging and party leaders and
workers are staging a sit-in outside the Punjab Assembly. According to reports,
PTI workers assaulted members of the press during the protest.

On Saturday, several party leaders and workers had been arrested during a police
crackdown on their protest camp on Mall Road. The police claimed protests could
not be held in the area due to the imposition of Section 144. Later, those
arrested were released and they continued their protest on Mall Road. The
protest ended when party leadership decided to continue it from Monday

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Advocate (Burnie)

                            February 1, 2013 Friday

Tarkine protest battle looming

BYLINE: Sean Ford

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 316 words


DEVELOPMENT of a controversial iron ore mine in the Tarkine is moving closer,
and so are protests for and against it.

Shree Minerals Ltd has told the Australian Stock Exchange it will take steps to
finalise contracts, plans and processes to start project development at Nelson
Bay River in the far west of Circular Head during the current quarter.

It aims to start production in mid-2013, according to its December quarterly
report, released on Tuesday.

Environmentalists have foreshadowed on-ground protests in an attempt to stop the
mine, and mine supporters plan counter- protests.

Wilderness Society Tasmanian campaign director Vica Bayley said protests could
be expected if the mine development went ahead.

``People have declared their intentions," Mr Bayley said

He said the campaign against the mine had been building at community level and
much had been done informing and mobilising people.

``Nobody wants to protest; people want this issue off the agenda and proper
heritage listing," he said.

``Clearly, people value the Tarkine, want to protect the Tarkine and the Tarkine
has a long history of people emerging to defend it.

``It is an area that has got identified world heritage values and is partly in
an existing conservation reserve.

``You can expect protests at a range of levels."

Circular Head Mayor Daryl Quilliam expected protests against the protesters.

``The protests will be about the right to work and the right for people to go
and get jobs," Mr Quilliam said.

He was expecting the council leadership team to meet Shree around mid- February
to talk about the company's time frame and the counter-protests.

He stressed the counter- protests must not involve violence.

Shree gained Commonwealth approval for the mine in the December quarter and has
all the approvals it needs to develop it.

The first stage of the mine plan involves mining ore for direct shipping for the
first two years.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                           September 24, 2012 Monday

Protests and role of media houses

BYLINE:  Hafiz Muhammad Noman - Karachi

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Vol. XXVII No. 444

LENGTH: 610  words


The whole world is facing the huge protests by the Muslims against a US-made
anti-Islam and blasphemous film. The protests by the Muslims along with the
elements of violence in the protests are increasing day by day and surely it is
the expression of love with the last Prophet Mohammad (Peace Be Upon Him) for
whom, the Muslims are always ready to sacrifice their lives and can never bear
any kind of blasphemy with him but with all the prophets as the Muslims believe
in and respect all the prophets of the universe.

On this occasion, the Pakistani media is also responsible to perform its real
duty in order to promote, support and co-operate the protests but the Pakistani
media must be in favour of the protests by the Muslims so that US, its allies
and all the infidels should realize that everyone here is united on this issue
and cannot bear such blasphemous film or any kind of blasphemy and if someone to
do so, the Muslims would show severe reaction.

Unfortunately, the role of some media houses in Pakistan is very shameful as it
is reported that the US government is funding them in order to give a little
coverage to the protests against the blasphemous film or cause to alleviate the
intensity of the protests. Such media houses are shamefully exaggerating minor
torchings or flaming untoward incidents, which indeed shows that the American
agenda is being accomplished or acted on successfully.

Although the protests in civilized countries get more raged when the governments
hinder or prevent the protesters from their protests, hence every sensible
person can clearly gauge that some of the Pakistani media houses are serving for
the US government and supporting their stance by highlighting the element of
violence in the protests against anti-Islam and blasphemous film.

All the stress of some media houses in Pakistan seems to be spending on
criticizing the protesters' behaviour whereas some of our media houses do not
even seem ready to speak against cursed filmmakers, cursed French magazines'
editors and the governments that support them. Such media houses are not ready
to annoy those governments which are funding them.

Recently a French magazine published some nude photos of the princess of Britain
and what happened then, perhaps everybody knows! The government of Britain
immediately reacted and the French magazine was banned after this issue though
the magazine had no concern with the Britain. If Pakistan government and big
Islamic countries take some effective measures which send a message to the
Muslims that the Muslim governments are really annoyed on the blasphemous issue
and are taking some serious and extraordinary steps to legislate universal law
on the blasphemy of all the prophets as the Jews made a punishment law for the
opposition of their holocaust, then there was no reason that the protesters
adopted violence. When nothing takes place so, the protesters will adopt not
only violence but the element of flaming untoward incidents will also take place
as it happened in Libya and other countries.

It is not hidden now and everybody knows that in Islamic countries, the
diplomats from US and its allied governments keep busy in sabotaging strategies
rather than diplomatic activities and the clear example of this is our own
country Pakistan where America on the one hand claims to have good friendship
with Pakistan but on the other hand, Pakistan's sovereignty is being violated
openly. If the government in this situation wants to avoid any unpleasant
incident, some serious steps must be taken which represent rightly for their
sentiments because to control sentiments on blasphemy of any prophet is
impossible!

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday

Thousands march to protest in Tel Aviv;
Protesters marched from Habima Square to the Tel Aviv Museum. A second protest
was held in Jerusalem.

BYLINE: Globes' correspondent

LENGTH: 384 words


A new social protest march was held in Tel Aviv on Saturday, a week after the
violent confrontation between activists and the police in the previous protest
and a riot in which several bank windows were broken. Last night's protest was
particularly tense, as the demonstrators marched from Habima Square to the Tel
Aviv Museum.

A protest march was also held in Jerusalem by several hundred social activists.
The demonstrators marched from Paris Square along King George Street to Horse
Square. Some protesters tried to disrupt the Jerusalem light rail.

In Tel Aviv, hundreds of people marched from Habima Square to the Tel Aviv
Museum, where they held the main demonstration. The organizers estimated the
number of protesters at several thousand. The police kept their distance. The
Forum for Social Justice said that the protest march had police approval, and
was fully coordinated with the security forces.

The police closed the streets along the march to traffic, but some protestors
demonstrated opposite the government compound in Tel Aviv, and, earlier in the
evening, others disrupted traffic on Namir Road and Shaul Hamelekh Street. The
police did not intervene.

At the Tel Aviv Museum, retired Police Major General Zeev Even-Chen, the father
of one of the victims of the Carmel fire, gave a speech in which he accused
government officials of failing to take responsibility for what was happening in
the country. "Everyone says it was not me; it's nothing but a kindergarten
headed by the prime minister The people who call you anarchists are themselves
anarchists. Not us."

In a statement today, the Forum for Social Justice said, "It has been almost a
year since we came out on to the streets with very clear demands from the
Israeli government. The government's attempts to say it doesn't understand shows
obtuseness and blindness. Today, we are telling the Israeli government, 'Open
your eyes. We are demanding increased investment in people. We are the people
who are bearing this country on our shoulders. The money that you will take in
the next harvest is not yours, but belongs to the citizens. You are only
responsible for its fair distribution."

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
July 1, 2012

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2012

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday

ReTs hold district level protests across the state

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: JAMMU


JAMMU, Dec. 28 -- A large number of Rehbar-e-Taleem teachers held a protest
demonstration rally here on Wednesday to supporting the district level protest
here on Wednesday to press their pending demands. Meanwhile such protest also
held in Udhampur under the leadership of Vinod Sharma in support of their
consistently ignoring their genuine demands. As a part of the state wide protest
by the RET teachers forum, a protest demonstration and rally was also organized
in Poonch led by Najam Jafri, the state general secretary of the forum. A
Protest rally was also taken out from Parade ground to DDC office Poonch via
Main Bazar and Qila

Najam Jafri said if their genuine demands are not fulfilled, forum will start a
chain hunger strike during the forthcoming assembly session. A memorandum
submitted to DDC Poonch for CM. Others who spoke on the occasion included Shamim
Ansari, Sartaj Chowdhory, Arif Rathor, Badar Din, Manjeet Sharma, Shafiq Ahmed,
Niaz Kirmani, Muzaffar Ahmed, Kafeel Ahmed.

Similar protests were represented from other districts such as Samba, Kathua,
Rajouri, Udhampur, Doda, Ramban and Kishtwar where the protestors raised slogans
projecting their demands.

In Vijaypur too, a protest demonstration was organized by ReTs lead by Zonal
President of ReT body, Rinku Sha who repeated their demands included
regularization of the EVs who have completed the seven year service, enhancement
of wages of the RET, inclusion of rendered period of RET for promotion benefits,
rationalization of transfer policy in case of regularised RET teachers. Sharma
alleged that govt. is not in the mood to listen the genuine demands of ReT.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

State-owned TV acknowledge protests

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 466 words


Russian federal television stations showed Saturday's protest -- the first time
that federal television covered any Moscow protests against the election
results. Daily rallies have been held since Monday, the day after the election,
and more than 1,000 people were detained in the capital alone during rallies
since then.

Federal television channels ignored the run-up to the protest, but could not
stay silent as tens of thousands of Russians gathered on Bolotnaya Ploshchad on
Saturday to protests against elections violations and vote rigging.

Journalists wanted to report on protests

There were rumours on Saturday that NTV's news anchor Alexei Pivovarov refused
to go live with the 7 o'clock evening news if the protests were not mentioned,
Kommersant reported.

The channel denied these rumours, but opened their news program with repots of
the biggest protest in Moscow since the 90s.

On Dec. 5, up to 8,000 people gathered at Chistiye Prudy in an anti-election
protest, yet neither Channel One nor Rossiya 1, the two main state channels,
mentioned them, while NTV showed only a few seconds at 11:15 pm news.

However, TV channel employees on all levels, from top management to journalists,
were not happy to keep quiet about the rally on Dec.10, sources told Kommersant.

Protests on the news

First reports of the rally on Bolotnaya Ploshchad, which started at 2 pm, were
on air at 4 pm, with video, and were the first item on the news on NTV, Channel
One, and Rossiya 1.

The stories were 6-10 minutes, and not just seconds of footage, with interviews.
Rallies in other cities were also mentioned, even though evaluation of how many
people turned up were lower than some estimates.

Both state-owned Rossiya 1 and Channel One identified the protesters' claims:
against the results of the election and a desire to dismiss the head of the
Central Election Committee, Vladimir Churov. Not a single channel, including NTV
and Ren TV, showed any slogans and chants of the protesters against Vladimir
Putin. NTV, however, added that the protesters demanded a 'change of political
institutions in the country.'

NTV showed a protester on Bolotnaya saying 'I came here because I am sick of
everything. How much longer can people be cheated and treated like cattle.'

Kremlin ban

Many TV journalists told the Kommersant informally that the ban on reporting the
rallies came from the Kremlin, who did not comment.

Yesterday, a source familiar with the situation said the Kremlin was less than
pleased. 'Well, no one thanked them [the channels] for it,' he told Kommersant.

Sources in the Kremlin also told Gazeta.ru that it was President Dmitry
Medvedev's order that made the TV channels show the rallies and ensured that the
police was polite, and not a single person was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Syrians protest despite threat

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 225  words


THOUSANDS of Syrians yesterday braved security forces and marched in the
southern town of Daraa after the funeral of a protester killed in the previous
day's unrest.

Witnesses said protests also spread to the nearby towns of Jasim and Enkhel.

"There was a massive deployment of security forces to block protests but
thousands gathered anyway," a witness said.

They used tear gas to break up the crowd and "arrested several people" on the
fourth day of unrest.

Daraa has become the unexpected nerve centre of anti-regime protests in Syria,
with protesters holding daily demonstrations since last week despite a huge
deployment of security forces and a heavy-handed crackdown on protests that left
five dead.

Demonstrators marched from a cemetery towards a mosque after the burial of Raed
Akrad, who was killed by security forces when they opened fire to disperse a
protest. They chanted "Just God, Syria and Freedom" and "Revolution,
revolution", and an activist said demonstrators would keep up their protests
"until all the demands were met".

The protesters, who have been inspired by regimechanging revolts in Tunisia and
Egypt, are demanding freedom and an end to 48 years of emergency laws in Syria
under President Bashar al-Assad.

Demonstrators set Daraa's courthouse ablaze on Monday after clashes with police
that left one person dead and 100 wounded.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

Azeri police cordon off Baku university fearing fresh youth protests

LENGTH: 147 words


Police have cordoned off the area around Baku State University (BSU) fearing
renewed protests by young activists, the Azerbaijani Turan news agency reported
on 14 March.

A student protest was advertised on social networks to be held at the university
at 1400 (1000 gmt) as the continuation of the protests held in Baku on 11 and 12
March. However, there was no protest at 1445, the agency said.

The university management has decided to end classes earlier, and all students
have been warned against attending protests, Turan said.

In the meantime, APA news agency said police had obtained information that a
group of BSU students was planning an unauthorized protest outside the
university. Police have been deployed to the area to prevent the protest, the
agency added.

Sources: Turan news agency, Baku, in Russian 1055 gmt 14 Mar 11; APA news
agency, Baku, in Azeri 1008 gmt 14 Mar 11

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Different protests staged outside Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1450

LENGTH: 183  words


Different protests were staged by the local people in favour of their demands
outside the Press Club Hyderabad on Wednesday.

According to details, a man namely Dhani Bux staged a protest demonstration for
the provision of a job to his son. A newlywed couple namely Nasreen Laghari and
Yousuf Laghari, residents of Moro district Naushehro Feroze staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of protection.

The activists of the Awami Tehreek under the leadership of Hussain Mahar, Imtiaz
Marri and others staged a protest demonstration against the atrocities of
Qasimabad Police. The members of the Action Committee Hur Camp Colony staged a
protest demonstration against the authorities of the Auqaf Department.

The members of the All Pakistan Clerks Association under the leadership of Dost
Mohammad Brohi, Ashraf Bozai, Amanullah Mushwani, Abdul Quddoos Afridi, Shakir
Ali Siddiqui and others staged a protest demonstration for acceptance of their
demands. The heirs of a youth namely Abbas Panhwar, who was killed a few days
ago, staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of his murderers.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1438

LENGTH: 185  words


Different protests were staged outside the Press Club Hyderabad by the people in
favour of their demands on Friday.  According to details, the members of the
Hyderabad Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf Noonari, Naushad
Bhutto and others staged a protest demonstration against the actions of the
Hatri Police.

The activists of the Sindh Taraqqi Pasand Party (STPP) Hyderabad under the
leadership of Ghulam Muhammad Rind, Sachal Gopang and others staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of Riaz Kumbhar. The activists of
the Pakistan Peoples Party (SB) under the leadership of Majeed Soomro, Rafiq
Bhalai, Kashif Baghi and others staged a protest demonstration against
government's policies. The contract based employees of the Education Department
under the leadership of Riaz Hussain, Waseem and others staged a protest
demonstration for the regularization of their services.

The vaccinators of the Health Education dept under the leadership of Gul Hassan
Panhwar, Ali Raza Thebo and others staged a protest demonstration against the
non-issuance of their withheld salaries.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

WEARY OF CRISIS

BYLINE: Tatiana Frolovskaya

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 156

LENGTH: 344 words



HIGHLIGHT: SOCIOLOGISTS: 25% RUSSIANS ARE PREPARED TO SUPPORT PROTESTS;
Specialists say that the Russians will adapt to the crisis rather than protest.


Twenty-five percent Russians are prepared to support mass protests. The opinion
poll conducted by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VTsIOM) shows that
the spring/summer lull is over and the number of the Russians sufficiently
desperate to support street protests increases again. Not that the Russians'
financial standing took a dramatic turn for the worst over the last month or so.
Sociologists ascribe the changes to depletion of the population's trust in
effectiveness of the anti-crisis measures taken by the authorities. In other
words, it is absence of changes for the better that encourages protest
mentality.

Protest mentality was showing a steady decline in Russia over the years
preceding the crisis. VTsIOM sociologists detected and reported reversal of the
trend in autumn 2008. The situation hovered on relative stability between April
and June this year but the latest opinion poll dispelled all optimistic
expectations. The number of the Russians prepared to support protest actions
increased from 21% in June to 25% a month later. The number of whoever flatly
refused to participate in protests in the meantime dropped from 74% to 66%. The
majority of respondents actually dismiss mass protests as quite unlikely but
even they show a decline from 71% to 67%.

And yet, sociologists refuse to entertain the idea that the increase in protest
disposition may make trouble for the authorities this autumn. "The situation
shows no improvement but that only foments pessimism, uncertainty, and a slight
increase in protest mentality," Denis Volkov from Levada-Center announced.
"There will be no mass protests, mark my words. The population will adapt to the
crisis rather than protest."

"People are weary of the crisis which is only natural," Igor Nikolayev of FBK
agreed. "Considering the relative stability of the ruble, this weariness does
not manifest."

Sociologists say that the Russians' negative moods (protests) peaked in the
period of smooth devaluation of the ruble in late 2008 and early 2009.

Source: RBC Daily, No 149, August 20, 2009, p. 2

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 2, 2007 Friday

Kosovo's Self-Determination refuses to reveal 3 March protest scenario to police

LENGTH: 279 words


Text of report in English by independent internet news agency KosovaLive

Prishtina [Pristina], 1 March: Although, the protest of the Self-Determination
Movement, which will take place on 3 March, is announced to be peaceful, the
activists of this movement say that it is possible that protestors will take
bottles with paint, whereas the Kosova [Kosovo] Police Service [ShPK] voiced
confident that the violence of 10 February will not be repeated.

This protest aims to show the dissatisfactions of the people of Kosova with [UN
special envoy] Martti Ahtisaari's package.

ShPK officials and activists of the Self-Determination Movement told KosovaLive
that the protest of 3 March will begin at 1400 [1300 gmt]. The protestors will
move from the Self-Determination Movement headquarters and will stop at the OSCE
headquarters.

The spokesperson for the ShPK, Veton Elshani, told KosovaLive that the activists
of Self-Determination Movement did not brief them about the scenario of the
protest.

"We had a friendly meeting with the activists of the Self-Determination
Movement, but they were not ready to tell us the scenario of the protest,"
Elshani said.

Elshani said that the ShPK together with UNMIK [UN Interim Administration
Mission in Kosovo] police are preparing an operative plan, which will be used if
the protest escalates and becomes violent.

On the other hand, the activist of the Self-Determination Movement, Xhelal
Sfecla, told KosovaLive that the scenario of this protest will be the same as it
was on the protest of 28 November last year.

He also said that, during the protest, they will have some short speeches.

Source: KosovaLive website, Pristina, in English 1 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                    November 16, 2001 Friday Ontario Edition

CBC-TV reporter arrested in Tehran, footage erased

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 200 words

CBC-TV reporter Neil Macdonald and his camera crew were arrested in Iran and
detained for four hours yesterday after shooting footage of a protest.

"They were covering an anti-government protest at a soccer stadium in Tehran
when they were apprehended, taken to a police station and questioned," said CBC
spokesperson Ruth-Ellen Soles.

"They were forced to play their taped material, then their material was erased,"
she said, adding, "But everyone was released and everyone's fine."

Macdonald, the network's Middle East correspondent, was arrested along with an
Australian reporter, his crew and two locals.

They weren't charged with any crimes, Soles said, and no one was hurt.

"But I'm sure it was very nerve-racking for everyone involved," Soles said.

Foreign Affairs spokesperson Reynald Doiron confirmed the incident yesterday
afternoon from Ottawa.

He said the Canadian embassy in Tehran was alerted to the incident and went to
the police station.

The group was subsequently released.

"They apparently had film footage not allowed in Tehran. They erased their
footage," he said.

"He was released and no charges were laid," the Foreign Affairs spokesperson
said.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              385 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 23, 2016 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The Dallas protests remained peaceful

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 222 words


The headline on the July 9 front-page article "Peaceful protests turn into
mayhem " was misleading. Only by reading most of the article did one realize the
error. The article made clear that the Dallas sniper was not part of the
peaceful protests, that he disrupted the peaceful protests and that he did not
change the nature of the protests. A more accurate headline would have read:
"Peaceful protest disrupted by shooter." No protesting person was reported to
have been moved to violence. The headline wrongly implied that the protesters
went from peaceful to violent. (Mayhem is violence.) Although I do not believe
this sloppiness was intentional, it contributes to the lack of understanding,
lack of identification and connectedness,  and lack of carefulness in speech
that are some of the conditions that increase violence in the United States.

We need healing, and we need to directly and honestly address not only what is
happening (which the headline failed to do) but also what happened in the past
that we find ourselves at this point. Kevin B. Blackistone's July 10 news
column, "White America's ongoing worry: The aggrieved black man," was a perfect
example of the type of reportage and opinion that are critical for us to face
our demons together and survive as a culture. Please be more careful.

Jeanine Hull , Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                             April 17, 2016 Sunday

Protesters insulted police seeking provocation: former deputy minister

BYLINE: Al-Masry Al-Youm

LENGTH: 451  words


Former Deputy Interior Minister Mohamed Nour Eddin said in a TV interview
broadcast on Saturday that the ministry has never rejected any requests to hold
public protests, denying accusations that political protests are routinely
dissallowed in Egypt.

"All requests submitted to the ministry was approved including permissions on
protests against the policies adopted by the ministry and the Minister Magdy
abdel Ghaffar himself," Nour Eddin said during a talk show on Al-Ghad news
channel.

He made the comments in the wake of protests across Egypt against the official
transfer for two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabian control, a move that has
provoked angry reactions within Egypt. At least 100 people were reportedly
arrested in various locations on Friday, as some protesters clashed with police.


Defending Egypt's system for regulating political protests, Nour Eddin said all
countries in the world have rules that regulate public protests, and the system
in Egypt is no different.

He said that groups who accompany the Egyptian president on his foreign tours
have to get permission to protest in support of Egypt during those visits. The
permissions includes specific hours and locations, as well as prior approval of
the slogans, so as to avoid insulting officials or inciting hatred.

The legislation regarding protests in Egypt does not ban them, but rather
regulatest their conduct, said the former ministry official.

He said, those people who protested on Friday were merely expressing their
concerns about the future of their country, and the police allowed them to
continue with their protests so long as they remained peaceful and did not
damage to property, use fireworks or flammable materials, or assault the police.

"When I conducted a tour of some places that saw protests, I didn't come across
one situation that didn't involve insults aimed at provoking the policemen," he
said, refering to the protests on Friday.

Among the protests on Friday, was one large gathering outside the Journalists
Syndicate, located in downtown Cairo. Security forces attempted to disperse the
protesters, leading to clashes.

On April 8, Egypt and Saudi Arabia signed an agreement clarifying the
demarcation of maritime borders between the two nations, just one of several
deals signed during the visit to Egypt of Saudi King Salman bin Abdel Aziz.

In a statement last week, the Egyptian Cabinet said that the agreement places
the two islands of Tiran and Sanafir within Saudi territorial waters, although
the agreement will need to be reviewed by parliament before it is ratified.

The two islands are of great strategic importance, being located at the entrance
to the Gulf of Aqaba

Edited translation from Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2016 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily Independent (Lagos)

                               February 08, 2016

Workers Protest Against 45 Percent Electricity Tariff Hike

LENGTH: 296 words


Workers under the aegis of the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union
Congress have started a nationwide protest against the recent increase in
electricity tariffs in the country.

The NLC had called for the protest after repeatedly calling on the Nigeria
Electricity Regulatory Commission to suspend the recent increase in tariffs.

The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, who described the tariff hike as outrageous,
said it was the fifth in a row since 2012 and unacceptable.

In a statement calling for the protest Wabba said, "It is a nationwide protest,
meaning that the 36 states of the Federation including Abuja will be involved in
this action.

"Our members have been sufficiently mobilised and are ready to go. If you are an
electricity consumer and you are not happy with the bills electricity companies
serve you every month, you are invited to join this protest rally."

Civil society groups and activists also expressed support for the protest and
mobilised their members for it.

In Abuja, protesters could be seen carrying placards expressing their disdain
for the tariff increase with some bearing such inscriptions as "We won't pay
more for darkness".

Some of the workers came out as early as 7am for the protest, which started at
the Labour House in the Central Business District Abuja.

The workers are expected to protest at NERC offices and in the case of Abuja,
the protest will extend to the National Assembly.

The NERC had introduced the new power tariff regime in December, outlining the
various rates of increase in energy charges for consumers across the country.

It also announced the removal fixed electricity charges for all classes of
electricity consumers and noted that power users would only pay for what they
consume.

The new tariffs became effective February 1.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                          Daily Independent (Nigeria)

                            February 8, 2016 Monday

Workers Protest Against 45% Electricity Tariff Hike

LENGTH: 306  words


Workers under the aegis of the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union
Congress have started a nationwide protest against the recent increase in
electricity tariffs in the country.

The NLC had called for the protest after repeatedly calling on the Nigeria
Electricity Regulatory Commission to suspend the recent increase in tariffs.

The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, who described the tariff hike as outrageous,
said it was the fifth in a row since 2012 and unacceptable.

In a statement calling for the protest Wabba said, "It is a nationwide protest,
meaning that the 36 states of the Federation including Abuja will be involved in
this action.

"Our members have been sufficiently mobilised and are ready to go. If you are an
electricity consumer and you are not happy with the bills electricity companies
serve you every month, you are invited to join this protest rally."

Civil society groups and activists also expressed support for the protest and
mobilised their members for it.

In Abuja, protesters could be seen carrying placards expressing their disdain
for the tariff increase with some bearing such inscriptions as "We won't pay
more for darkness".

Some of the workers came out as early as 7am for the protest, which started at
the Labour House in the Central Business District Abuja.

The workers are expected to protest at NERC offices and in the case of Abuja,
the protest will extend to the National Assembly.

The NERC had introduced the new power tariff regime in December, outlining the
various rates of increase in energy charges for consumers across the country.

It also announced the removal fixed electricity charges for all classes of
electricity consumers and noted that power users would only pay for what they
consume.

The new tariffs became effective February 1.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/633/1803/49/145494262987.jpg

wabba

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1803


                       Copyright 2016 Daily Independent.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Blog: Small Business Size and Status Protests Are Better Late Than
Never

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Olympia: Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association, The State of
Washington has issued the following news release:



 Many small businesses have encountered set-aside competitions where they either
strongly believe, or know for certain, that a competitor has misrepresented its
size or status. Some feel that agencies sometimes look the other way, or even
purposely sidestep the small business rules, to allow favored firms of
questionable size to compete for these contracts.





 Although the small business size protest is an available remedy, the five-day
deadline for filing a well supported, "non-speculative" size protest often
presents a barrier for small companies. It is very challenging to research and
draft a quality size protest in just five working days. Also, what if the
company does not learn that the competitor is large or ineligible until after
the five-day deadline? What can be done in that situation?



 Two little known contracting regulations could come to the rescue. The first
rule is that there is no time limit on size or status protests filed by the
Small Business Administration (SBA) itself. The second rule is that the
contracting officer is required to transmit every size protest, filed within the
five-day window or not, to the SBA. So even if a small business is past the
five-day window, if it has actionable information, it still may file a size
protest. Accordingly, the contracting officer is required to send it to the SBA
for review. The SBA receives these "untimely" protests because the SBA can
choose to adopt the protest as its own without regard to the time limits that
apply to contractor size protests. The SBA will dismiss the contractor's
protest, but if the SBA chooses to take the ball, the protesting contractor
actually can end up with a stronger advocate than its own firm.



 Filing late is only a fallback strategy. Filing on time is much preferred
because the contract award can be prevented, and review by the SBA is required.
On a late protest, review is discretionary, and obtaining relief is not a high
probability. On the other hand, if the late protest is strong enough, the
contracting officer might even terminate the existing contract.



 So, if a company has information suggesting that a competitor who received an
award was not eligible because of size or status, it may be better to file a
late size or status protest than none at all&mdash;if the claim is
strong&mdash;because there is at least a chance for relief if the SBA itself
adopts the protest as its own.



 Finally, a size protest is not the only recourse. In some situations, it may be
possible to file a Qui Tam whistleblower case and recover a share of the
contract revenues the misrepresenting contractor has improperly received.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Blog: Small Business Size and Status Protests Are Better Late Than
Never

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Olympia: Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association, The State of
Washington has issued the following news release:



 Many small businesses have encountered set-aside competitions where they either
strongly believe, or know for certain, that a competitor has misrepresented its
size or status. Some feel that agencies sometimes look the other way, or even
purposely sidestep the small business rules, to allow favored firms of
questionable size to compete for these contracts.





 Although the small business size protest is an available remedy, the five-day
deadline for filing a well supported, "non-speculative" size protest often
presents a barrier for small companies. It is very challenging to research and
draft a quality size protest in just five working days. Also, what if the
company does not learn that the competitor is large or ineligible until after
the five-day deadline? What can be done in that situation?



 Two little known contracting regulations could come to the rescue. The first
rule is that there is no time limit on size or status protests filed by the
Small Business Administration (SBA) itself. The second rule is that the
contracting officer is required to transmit every size protest, filed within the
five-day window or not, to the SBA. So even if a small business is past the
five-day window, if it has actionable information, it still may file a size
protest. Accordingly, the contracting officer is required to send it to the SBA
for review. The SBA receives these "untimely" protests because the SBA can
choose to adopt the protest as its own without regard to the time limits that
apply to contractor size protests. The SBA will dismiss the contractor's
protest, but if the SBA chooses to take the ball, the protesting contractor
actually can end up with a stronger advocate than its own firm.



 Filing late is only a fallback strategy. Filing on time is much preferred
because the contract award can be prevented, and review by the SBA is required.
On a late protest, review is discretionary, and obtaining relief is not a high
probability. On the other hand, if the late protest is strong enough, the
contracting officer might even terminate the existing contract.



 So, if a company has information suggesting that a competitor who received an
award was not eligible because of size or status, it may be better to file a
late size or status protest than none at all&mdash;if the claim is
strong&mdash;because there is at least a chance for relief if the SBA itself
adopts the protest as its own.



 Finally, a size protest is not the only recourse. In some situations, it may be
possible to file a Qui Tam whistleblower case and recover a share of the
contract revenues the misrepresenting contractor has improperly received.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE: Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 845

LENGTH: 226  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favor of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
APCA members under the leadership of Syed Muzafar Hussain Shah, Syed Khuda Bux
Shah and others staged a protest demonstration for the increase in their
salaries. The employees of the Sindh Small Industries led by Mohammad Juman
Channa, Noor Mohammad and others recorded a protest demonstration for the
issuance of their withheld salaries. The sacked employees of the NBP also
continued their protest demonstration for the restoration of their services. The
employees of the Anti-Encroachment Revenue Force staged a protest demonstration
for the issuance of their withheld salaries. The members of the social welfare
organizations of the Nangarparkar recorded a protest demonstration for the
arrest of the murderers of a social worker namely Neeto Bai. A student namely
Raheel Rind, resident of Gulshan-e-Mehran Phase-II along with his family members
recorded a protest demonstration against the registration of cases on him. While
talking to newsmen, the protesting student said that the police have registered
a case under the anti-terrorism act due to which he is facing many problems. On
the occasion, he demanded of the concerned authorities to take notice of the
matter and provide justice to him.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Egypt Independent

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Report: security responsible for 70% of violence in universities during first
semseter

BYLINE: Egypt Independent,Nehal Mostafa

LENGTH: 309  words


Security services were involved in 70 percent of violence witnessed at
universities, while students were responsible for 20 percent of the violence
between October 2014 and January 2015, according to the Democracy Index report,
which also showed 820 students were arrested, 650 were imprisoned, while 440
students were dismissed, though no official accurate estimates were provided
about the security crackdown.Issued on Wednesday, the report said that 572
protests were staged by students, of those 521 were staged by university
students. At the top was Cairo University, then Alexandria then Helwan then Ain
Shams, then Zagazig, Menoufia, Mansoura and other governmental universities.

Eleven protests were staged by privately-owned universities and other 12
protests were staged by students of higher institutions.Sixty-nine percent of
the demonstrations demanded release and return of detained and dismissed
students, 12 Percent of protests were staged against court verdict clearing
former President Hosni Mubarak on charges of killing protesters, 18 protests
were staged against security crackdown on students, 14 protests were against
against the death of classmates caused at the hands of security forces, 17
protests were staged against violence and terrorism, whereas 15 percent of
protests were against administrative problems and demands of enhancing
educational services.Ninety-four percent of the protests were peaceful, while
5.5 percent were violent through blocking roads and sieging offices of
officials.Seventy protests were forcibly dispersed, despite being peaceful.
Thirty-four clashes erupted between protesting students and security upon the
violent dispersal of protests. Eleven bombs were found, while three stun
grenades exploded on university campuses, despite the high security
measures.Edited translation from Al-Masry Al-Youm

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1386


                        Copyright 2015 Egypt Independent
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             April 18, 2014 Friday

Countrywide MQM protest against workers' killing, arrest today

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 906

LENGTH: 483  words


The Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) is all set to stage a country-wide protest
demonstration against 'extra judicial killings and forced disappearances of its
workers' on Friday, Local TV reported. MQM leaders said on Thursday if the
government, army and police could not provide party workers and leaders with
adequate security and protection, they should step aside and the MQM would come
forward for its own protection.

The MQM declared that a series of protests and sit-ins would continue to be
staged all over the country if extra-judicial killings were not stopped and
kidnapped party workers were not recovered.

The party leaders warned of this while addressing a protest rally organised at
the Karachi Press Club (KPC) as the first step in their series of protests. They
claimed that today's rally would be a big one and the more protests would
continue in the country if the law enforcement agencies did not stop their
'illegal and unconstitutional activities' against the MQM.

Carrying placards and banners, the participants of the rally raised slogan
against what they termed the extra-judicial killings and disappearances of party
workers. The affected families were also carrying portraits of their missing
family members and demanded the prime minister take steps for the recovery of
kidnapped activists.

Addressing the protest rally, Dr Farooq Sattar said that it was the MQM's
demand, and warning as well, to the federal and provincial government and
law-enforcement agencies to stop the violations of the Constitution and illegal
activities. He said that the MQM could deal with the plainclothes men itself if
the government and law enforcement agencies allowed the party to deal with them.

Farooq Sattar said: "Don't test our patience otherwise the scenes of deprivation
could be converted into scenes of destruction." He said that Thursday's protest
was a 'trailer' while Friday's protest would be 'the full film' and protests and
sit-ins would continue in the country till the unlawful activities of the
law-enforcement agencies stopped.

He said the articles 4,9,10 and 14 were being violated by the law-enforcement
agencies and the MQM was trying to draw the attention of the rulers and
responsible forces to stop these unconstitutional acts and avoid using unethical
and inhuman methods with the MQM workers.

The parliamentary party leader in the National Assembly Dr Farooq Sattar asked
the present regime not to create the Balochistan like situation in Sindh.
Addressing the rally the party leaders Haider Abbas Rizvi, Khawaja Izharul Hasan
and Ashfaq Mangi also warned the law enforcement agencies not to enforce the PPO
against the MQM otherwise the people would resist and rulers would be
responsible for the situation.

The participants got emotional when the mothers of two missing workers Farooq
and Irshad and daughter of Farhan spoke and shared the miseries of their
families.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                            February 28, 2014 Friday

Protest slammed

BYLINE: FRANCE NYAKA

LENGTH: 389 words


THE ANC in the Bohlabela region near Bushbuckridge has condemned the recent
violent protests against alleged corruption in the Bushbuckridge local
municipality.

The condemnation follows the protest by residents and apparently ANC members who
barricaded the R40 road between Marite and Hazyview with rocks and other objects
this week.

The protesters demanded the removal of ANC regional chairperson Mandla Ndlovu
and other senior comrades.

They claimed that the municipality's tender system was under the control of
Ndlovu and his party colleagues, which only awarded their friends and relatives.

During the protest, a bus belonging to the Great North Transport was damaged and
motorists were prevented from using the road.

Schools and businesses in the area also came to a halt because of the volatile
situation.

The protest took place a week after a task team was established by the ANC's
provincial executive committee (PEC). It was tasked to investigate whether the
protests in the province were politically motivated.

ANC regional spokesperson Lydia Morewane said the party was shocked at the
violent protests, which undermined the rights of those who going to work and to
school.

"We condemn the protest which ended up undermining other people's rights.
Violent protests are against the country's Constitution," Morewane said.

She said ANC members were elected democratically and could only be removed in
that way, so people needed to submit their complaints peacefully to the ANC.

"We still need to confirm if some of the protesters are legitimate ANC members
or not.

"It is well known that ANC members are always disciplined and following the
right channels (in voicing any grievances)," Morewane said.

Municipal spokesperson Zondi Mkhabela said the allegations against it were
unfounded.

"We distance ourselves from the allegations, no political party or individual
can control our tender system.

"We are bound by the prescripts of the Municipal Finance Management Act when we
award contracts, so the allegations are baseless," Mkhabela said.

Bushbuckridge police spokesperson Lt Ndlovukazi Mashele said a charge of public
violence was being laid, but no arrests had been made as yet.

The police crowd control unit and tactical response team were now monitoring the
situation, he said.

francen@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Morsi supporters set out to protest Friday

BYLINE: Mostafa Salem

LENGTH: 253 words


A number of protests was announced within Cairo and in certain governorates on
Friday as part of the "youth are pillars of the revolution" Friday.

Members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of ousted President Mohamed
Morsi march through Cairo's Maadi Neighborhood on September 6, 2013.
(AFP Photo)

Protests set out after Friday prayers from different mosques in Cairo and Giza,
setting out from Al Iman mosque in Nasr City, Al Rian mosque in Maadi, Al
Istiqama mosque in Giza.

Several other governorates are also witnessing protests, including Alexandria,
Port Said, Sharqia and Minya.

The protests came after the National Coalition for Legitimacy, the Muslim
Brotherhood youth and the Anti-Coup Youth Movement called for mass protests
denouncing the Raba'a dispersal and the 30 June "coup".

Unconfirmed reports claim that several of the Cairo protests will be heading
towards Mostafa Mahmoud square in Mohandessin.

Protests  also broke out on Friday in the Giza village of Kerdasa, which is host
to a massive security operation that started on Thursday.

The Anti-Coup Youth Movement released a statement on Monday, 16  September,
appealing to the people to carry out civil disobedience on Sunday by refraining
from going to work: "We call on the people to go out to demonstrate in all the
streets of Egypt and assemble in the main squares since early morning Sunday."

Related posts:

Opposition announce open-ended sit-in

Thirty Egyptians and Emiratis referred to trial

Al-Sisi's remarks reverberate in opposition, Brotherhood

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday

Khanal warns government to mend ways

BYLINE: Himalayan News Service

LENGTH: 239  words


Parbat: Taking the government's threat head-on, CPN-UML Chairman Jhala Nath
Khanal today warned that the opposition's parties would launch street protests
if the Unified CPN-Maoist and its coalition partners do the same.

Speaking at the press meet organised by Press Chautari, in Kushma, Perbat,
Khanal said all opposition parties of the country would jointly launch street
protests against of UCPN-M and its coalition partners if they obstructed their
protests. "The opposition parties have the right to protest," Khanal added.

However, he said his party was ready to hold talks with the government to iron
out the differences. "The opposition parties," he said, "have no interest to
protest but it has become a compulsion since the government has been doing
running the day-to-day affairs in an authoritarian manner."

He made it clear that the protest would not stop until the government mends its
way and puts an end to authoritarianism in the country. "Protest programmes
would be peaceful and maximum mobilisation would be provided to the people,"
Khanal said.

He accused that Unified CPN-Maoist of imposing dictatorship in the country.
"They like to prolong their stay in power, and at the same time come to streets
in protest," he said. He pointed that it was a kind of Panchayati system to
protest by the ruling party. Khanal went on to say that protests will continue
until a national consensus government was formed in the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            November 23, 2012 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 455

LENGTH: 154  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday. According to details, the
activists of Awami Workers' Party and Jamiat Tulba Arabia Hyderabad staged
protest demonstrations against the Israeli aggression in Palestine. The
activists of the AWP led by Comrade Bakhshal Thalho, Zahid Ali Meso, Dr Shams
Siddiqui and others demanded immediate action against Israel.

A man namely Ghulam Hussain, resident of Jamshoro staged a protest demonstration
for the recovery of his son Muhammad Suleman, who is missing since past 3
months. A man namely Haji Rahim, resident of village Chalyar, Chachhro recorded
a protest demonstration against occupation of his home. The members of Shiite
Ulema Council led by Syed Muhammad Kazim Qambrani, Mustafa Ali Haideri and
others staged a protest demonstration against attacks on Imambargahs in Karachi
and Rawalpindi.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Target series

                                October 31, 2012

85 people sign up to support anti-immigration protest in Boston

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 307  words


Eighty-five people have confirmed their support for Boston's anti-immigration
protest on Sunday, November 18.

Campaigner Dean Everitt has organised the demonstration by the Ingram Memorial
from 2pm to 3pm.

The decision to protest was made following the publication of a report from
Boston Borough Council into the social impact of population change in Boston.

The report made recommendations to try to deal with issues stemming from an
increase in population over the last 10 years, but Mr Everitt and other
campaigners said it fell short of tackling the real problems.

He said: "We are holding this to raise awareness to the ever increasing   issues
caused by uncontrolled mass immigration.

"We are hoping for a peaceful protest and would like many people to come on the
day to show their support for something everyone is moaning about in the town -
immigration."

The protest, which has attracted many people to its Facebook site, was set to
go-ahead last year but was cancelled.

Lincolnshire Police are fully aware of the planned protest.

Boston Police Station's community policing inspector Dave Rimmer said: "We are
working closely with the organiser  to ensure that the protest remains a
peaceful one with the minimum of disruption possible for the community of
Boston.

"Before, during and after the event the police will be engaged in ensuring that
anyone seeking to turn this protest into anything other than the peaceful
protest planned, will be dealt with according to the circumstances and existing
legislation.

"The organiser has a right in law to hold a peaceful protest, part of the
planning by the police is to ensure that we have the ability to respond against
a number of contingencies, to maximise the safety of everyone concerned, and to
this end there will be an appropriate and proportionate number of officers on
duty on the day."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 95


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   UMCI News

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Students keep Algeria protests warm

LENGTH: 579 words


As weekly anti-government protests are planned in Algeria each Saturday,
students around the country keep the movement warm during weekdays, organising
strikes, sit-ins and protests.

As weekly anti-government protests are  planned in Algeria each Saturday,
students around the country keep the  movement warm during weekdays, organising
strikes, sit-ins and protests. The student protests in Algeria started  already
on 8 February, almost a week before the pro-democracy protests,  and were
sparked by unpopular reforms in the qualification system and  poor quality of
teaching at Algerian universities. But a loose  connection to the regional
anti-regime protest wave was soon noted.

Since the Saturday anti-government protests in Algiers, which was  brutally
dispersed by a large number of police troops, the pro-democracy  movement mostly
has staid off the streets, rather concentrating on  setting up a nation-wide
organisation to head the protests each  Saturday.

But meanwhile, the student protests are going on, spreading and reaching  new
heights. All over the country and during the entire week,  university students
have organised strikes, sit-ins and manifestations.

Ten days ago, some 500 students at the University of Algiers started  boycotting
classes. More student joined in a protest march the day after  as an "indefinite
strike" was declared. Then, students in thecites of  Oran, Tlemcen and Annaba
followed up with strikes and manifestations.

This week, the more politicised students have even widened their action.  In the
city of M'sila, the "indefinite" student strike was announced on  Monday.
Yesterday, an estimated 15,000 students took to the streets of  M'sila, mostly
shouting slogans against Algeria's education policies.  The protests were
peaceful.

Also yesterday, students from several cities, including Boumerdes, Blida  and
Oran, streamed into the capital, Algiers, establishing a protest  camp in front
of the Ministry of Higher Education. Students spent the  night in front of the
Ministry, demanding that a decree reforming the  qualification system be called
back.

Algeria's independent and usually well-informed daily 'El Watan' reports  from
the protest camp in front of the Ministry that protesters' numbers  were around
thousand. A student spokesperson told the newspaper that  "we are in contact
with 38 universities," all having joined the protest  movement.

Government so far has not reacted to these peaceful protests and  security
forces have not interfered with the students. Student leaders  in statements
have made sure only to focus on issues relative to  education policies, although
students' sympathies with the pro-democracy  movement have been demonstrated at
several occasions.

While government is not interfering with the striking students,  government
media are not mentioning the student protests. Independent  Algerian media,
which have a considerable market position, however give  the protests an ample
coverage.

While the Algerian student protest movement is increasing its pressure  on
government from day to day, also a wave of strikes is hitting the  country.
Hospital workers have been on strike, engineers and agronomists  have followed
and an education sector strike has been announced.

Also the striking groups maintain their mass action is connected to  working
conditions and salaries and is not in connection with the  mounting
pro-democracy movement. Popular belief in Algeria however says  otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


     Copyright 2012 UMCI News - United Mediterranean Council of Industries
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday

Tour Operators Speak Out On Riots

BYLINE: Steven Candia

LENGTH: 375  words


TOUR operators have condemned the planned resumption of the walk-to-work
campaign, saying the protests will further hurt the industry and the economy.

The operators under the Association of Uganda Tour Operators (AUTO) said the
industry and the economy had taken a huge knock from the April-May protests that
were characterised by violence.

Amos Wekesa, the AUTO president, told an annual general meeting last week that
the resumption of the protests would turn away tourists and worsen the scarcity
of dollars.

Tourism is one of Uganda's top foreign exchange earners.

Wekesa noted that the industry and the economy had been battered by the earlier
protests and could not stand another wave.

"Tourism is the second largest foreign exchange earner. Any resumption of the
protests is likely to hurt the industry and consequently the national economy,"
he pointed out.

"Whatever happens affects both the industry and the economy negatively.
Something must be done. We condemn the protests," Wekesa said drawing a
thunderous applause.

Boniface Byamukama, the AUTO chairman, said there was need to avert the
walk-to-work protests because it is peak season.

The operators asked the Government and opposition leaders to resolve the matter
amicably. They said disruptions would hit the economy given the losses suffered
by the tourism and hotel industry in the previous protests.

"In the last protests, the tourism industry lost about 30% (about $340,000) of
the bookings, while the hotel industry lost 70% of its booking. If this happens
again, the economy will suffer. We condemn the walk-to-work protests," he said.

The tour operators disclosed that some of them have had to refund advance
payments by tourists who were forced to call off their trips following the
earlier protests.

Opposition parties last week announced that they would resume the walk-to-work
campaign in protest of the soaring cost commodity prices.

Kampala courts have dismissed several cases against party leaders in connection
with the May protests.

The tour operators also blamed the Government's violent reaction to the
protesters.

They argued that though the current economic situation was largely due to the
global economic crisis, it was partly so because of the after effects of the
protests.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE:  Younis Chandio & Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1768

LENGTH: 220  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Saturday.  According to details, the members
of the Tanzeem Falah-o-Bahbood for Handicaps under the leadership of Nadeem
Ahmed Shaikh, Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest demonstration for the
provision of jobs according to disabled quota. The people of the Solangi
community under the leadership of Noor Muhammad, Hassan, Yameen and others
staged a protest demonstration in favor of their demands. The workers of PPP
Mirpur Bathoro district Thatta under the leadership of Mushtaq Manganhar,
Muhammad Eisa Bhatti and others staged a protest demonstration against the local
party leadership.

The members of the Pakistan Para Veterinary Medical Association, under the
leadership of Dr. Bakhshal Khan Thallo, Dr Mubarak Jatoi and others staged a
protest demonstration for the acceptance of their demands. The former employees
of a media group including Naeem Shah and Hasham Shaikh staged a protest
demonstration in favor of their demands. An injured person namely Allah Ditta
Bhutto, resident of Raheem Yar Khan staged a protest demonstration, demanding
financial help for his treatment. The members of the Hyderabad Action Committee
continued their protest demonstration against the Habib Group.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests demonstrations staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1560

LENGTH: 195  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by the people in favour of their
demands outside the Sukkur Press Club on favour of their demands on Tuesday.
According to details, the residents of Workers Colony staged a protest
demonstration against the stealing of furniture and transformer of their local
area school.

The members of the All Sindh Disabled Forum under the leadership of Chairman
Hafiz Aslam Hussaini, Dr Saiqa Mangi, Mubashir Sehto and others recorded a
protest demonstration for the provision of jobs and other facilities to the
disabled persons. The people of Jona community recorded a protest demonstration
for the recovery of their community girl Samina, who was allegedly kidnapped by
ASI Owais Lashari and his compliances.

A youth namely Ghulam Rasool Bhatti and his sister Lal Bibi, residents of ADC
Colony staged a protest demonstration for the provision of jobs to them. The
leaders of Sukkur Small Traders recorded a protest demonstration against the
several hours of unannounced load shedding. The members of a social welfare
organization SPO staged a protest demonstration against the worsening law and
order situation in interior of Sindh.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            November 6, 2009 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1342

LENGTH: 205  words


Different protests were staged outside the press club Hyderabad on Thursday. The
activists of Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM) under the leadership of Asad Sehto,
Khalid Meerani and others continued their protest demonstration outside the
press club Hyderabad against the Advisor to CM Sindh,  Muhammad Ismail Dahri.

The activists of Jeay Sindh Students Federation (JSSF) under the leadership of
Saeed Khan Soomro, Asad Abro and others also continued their a protest
demonstration outside the press club Hyderabad for the release of JSQM Vice
Chairman Akash Mallah.

The people of the Chakrani community and the residents of Sinjhoro of district
Sanghar under the leadership of Hakim Ali and others continued their protest
demonstration against an occupation of their agriculture lands. The people of
the Gopang community, residents of Khesana Mori near Tando Jam under the
leadership of Nazeer, Soomar and others continued their protest against
occupation of their houses.

Dhani Bux Panhwar, a retired police constable and the resident of Dadu also
continued his protest demonstration on the 483rd consecutive day for the arrest
of his attackers. The sacked employees of SRTC also continued their protest for
issuance of their salaries.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

Students join protests in Burma

LENGTH: 386 words


Excerpt from report by Norway-based Burmese Democratic Voice of Burma website on
29 August

According to the latest news at hand, we understand that at least 50 people
demonstrated in Tavoy, capital of Tenasserim Division or Coastal Region, from
1130 to 1230 today.

A resident said the protestors were on motorcycles.

[Begin unidentified male recording] An estimated 50 people, about 20 of them on
motorcycles, demonstrated in Tavoy from 1130 to 1230 today to protest high
commodity prices. [End recording]

That was a report about the protest in Tavoy. We have not been able to receive
details of the protest yet. Residents in the city seem to be afraid and are
reluctant to speak to the media.

The military has tightened security in the city and we understand there were no
arrests but further details could not be obtained yet.

That was the only protest today. Although earlier reports indicate that there
was another protest in Sittwe again today, it was not true because the resident
of Sittwe we spoke to was reporting about the protest yesterday.

We also do not have any news about the situation in Taungup and Kyaukpyu yet.

Security has been tightened in many other cities and residents say that it was
not easy to stage protests at the moment.

Meanwhile in Mandalay where many monks are residing, residents report that some
movement could be seen among monks who were gathering in small groups. [Passage
omitted on protests in Arakan State's Sittwe and Rangoon's Hledan yesterday]

Yesterday's protest at Hledan was led by Ma Su Su Nway and at least 11 youths
were arrested after members of the Union Solidarity and Development Association
and Swan Ahr Shin intervened.

Names and addresses of those arrested were: Ko Kyaw Soe Win, Ko Thant Zin Myo,
Ma San San Win, Ko Than Zaw Myint and Pho Hla Pye of Hlaingthaya; Ko Ye Naing
Thein of Chauk; Ko Aye Naing, Ko Mya Hlaing, Ko San Win, Ko Thant Zin Oo, and Ko
Nay Dun of Insein.

We understand they are currently being detained at the Kyaikkasan Interrogation
Centre in Rangoon.

This latest round of arrest if added to the list of detainees announced by the
Assistance Association for Political Prisoners [based in Thailand] would bring
the total of people arrested, including Min Ko Naing, to over 100.

Source: Democratic Voice of Burma website, Oslo, in Burmese 1430 gmt 29 Aug 07

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                           September 11, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Protest tense at sex offender's house;
Parsonfield residents exchange words with the men helping Joseph J. Tellier move
in.

BYLINE: ELBERT AULL Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 237 words


A protest near the new home of a convicted sex offender became heated early
Sunday afternoon in Parsonfield, a protest organizer said.

No one was arrested, and there were no violent incidents at the protest, where a
few dozen local residents picketed in opposition to sex offender Joseph J.
Tellier's presence at 26 Road Between the Ponds. But they exchanged tense words
with some men who helped Tellier move into his home during the protest, said
Parsonsfield resident Lars Fossum.

York County sheriff's deputies were on the scene monitoring the protest.

Tellier was convicted in 1989 of kidnapping, raping and beating a 10-year-old
girl, and has been the focus of protests in York County communities since he was
released from prison in 2004.

The latest round of protest erupted in July, when Tellier moved to a home in
Waterboro within 1,000 feet of two schools. He has moved three times since then
amid protest from residents.

Fossum said residents oppose Tellier's presence because his home is a short
distance from a school bus stop. He said protesters want to create a
neighborhood watch organization with members who would escort children to the
bus stop.

A public forum on Tellier is scheduled for 7 p.m. Thursday at South Hiram
Elementary School in Hiram. Chief Deputy Maurice Ouellette of the York County
Sheriff's Office and Department of Corrections Commissioner Martin Magnusson are
scheduled to attend, Fossum said.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                  May 20, 2005

Groups call for protest against G8;

BYLINE: Barry McCaffrey

SECTION:  Pg. 11

LENGTH: 222 words


A coalition of Belfast-based pressure groups are calling on people to join in
protests against the world's super-powers later this summer.

The Belfast coalition is planning to take part in a series of protests in
Edinburgh in July when the eight richest countries in the world, known as the
G8, are to hold a summit to discuss poverty in Africa and global warming.

In the past, G8 summits have been the target of regular protests by a wide range
of pressure groups.

Some protests have been marred by violence carried out by extremist groups.

But speaking ahead of this summer's protests in Edinburgh, 'Grassroots against
G8' spokeswoman Ann Patterson insisted that a wide range of local groups would
take part in peaceful protests in Scotland in July.

"There is a misconception that only radicals and fascists are involved in the
protests against the G8 group," she said.

"It is totally untrue. I am a 50-something, pacifist who works for the Quaker
movement.

"Our group is made up of trade unions, Church people, community groups,
environmentalists and people who believe that it is wrong for the richest
countries to be robbing and pillaging from the poorest."

Mrs Patterson said that around 500 local people have already signed up to travel
to the Edinburgh demonstration in early July.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited


                              408 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            March 25, 2004, Thursday

MORE TO STUDENT LIFE THAN PROTESTS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 304 words


Three-quarters of first-year university students are not interested in taking
part in political protests, while two-thirds believe that student protest isn't
effective and doesn't make any difference, according to the Lloyds TSB/Financial
Mail on Sunday Student Panel.

Only a quarter of the panel, made up of first-year students at universities
across the UK, decided to take part in the recent 'day of action'.

Of those who did, the main reasons for taking part were the desire to try to
make a difference, the belief that protest could be effective as long as it was
well publicised and gained media attention, and that protest raised awareness
about educational policy among the general population.

Of those saying that student protest were not effective, the key reasons given
were, concerns about the image it presented of students just wanting an easy
life; claims that fellow students used protest days as an excuse to take a day
off studying; student strikes are ineffective as they don't withdraw an
essential service from the public; few of those taking part would go on to use
their vote at a local or general election; the Government wouldn't listen to
protests anyway.

Louise Williams, head of student banking, Lloyds TSB, said, 'Given that this is
the student population facing top-up fees and student loans, the views expressed
by our panel initially come as a surprise.

'However, as students are under more pressure to perform and get real value from
their education now than ever before, you can understand why protesting and
political activism have slipped further down their agenda.'

Students themselves acknowledge that they are not as politically fired as
previous generations - only a third believe that the current student population
is more active than their predecessors.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              409 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                           August 17, 2016 Wednesday

PAT to start protests from 20th

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 165

LENGTH: 304  words


The Central Core Committee of Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) in a meeting on
Tuesday announced the schedule for protest demonstrations from August 20 till
August 30.The meeting was chaired by its Chairman Dr Tahirul Qadri who declared
that "Qisas and National Solidarity Movement" would start from the 20th of this
month. He said that protest demonstrations and sit-ins would be held in Lahore,
Peshawar, Hyderabad, Faisalabad, Sibi, Kohat, Dera Murad Jamali, Mansehra,
Sukkur, Dera Ismail Khan and 71 other cities.

On the 21st, Gujranwala, Sialkot, Narowal, Hafizabad, Mandi Bahauddin, Gujrat
and 21 other cities will witness protest demonstrations and sit-in. On the 25th,
protest demonstrations will be held in DG Khan, Layyah, Rajanpur, Muzaffarabad
and 11 other cities. On the 27th, protest demonstrations will be held in
Bahawalpur, Lodhran, Bahawalnagar, Rahimyar Khan. On the 28th, protest
demonstrations and sit-ins will be held in Rawalpindi, Quetta, Karachi, Jhelum,
Chakwal, Haripur and 20 other cities.

Dr Tahirul Qadri said the second phase of "Qisas and National Solidarity
Movement" would start with a big protest demonstration and sit-in in Islamabad.
All the protest demonstration will be addressed by Dr Tahirul Qadri through a
video link.

Addressing the core committee meeting, the PAT chief said "our protests and
sit-ins are to get 'Qisas' for the Model Town killings and for country's
economic condition and rid the country of terrorists and extremists."

Dr Tahirul Qadri said the time was not far when the families of the Model Town
martyrs would get justice and the whole world would see. He said the revelations
made by the Panama Leaks were just a drop of water from a sea of corruption that
had been committed by rulers. He said a country filled with natural resources
was being looted with both hands.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                       Dorking and Leatherhead Advertiser

                              June 24, 2016 Friday

Nine cleared of obstruction at protest

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281  words



NINE people have been found not guilty of obstruction at  protests close to the
Horse Hill drill site, near Horley, earlier this year.

They  had all been arrested and charged with willful obstruction of the highway
after the demonstrations,  near the  site, where flow tests were taking place,
during February and March.

But, following a trial at Redhill Magistrates' Court last week, all of them have
been found not guilty.

District judge William Ashworth concluded the defendants were all walking at a
"reasonable" speed, and that their method of protest was not unreasonable nor
disproportionate.

Mr  Ashworth said: "By and large the protest at Horse Hill can be characterised
as a dignified and peaceful protest."

One of the defendants, Paddy Horne, said: "I am very happy. The fight goes on.
It is very important to nip any infringements [of human rights] in the bud."

Sarah Finch, from Frack Free Surrey, said: "The 'not guilty' verdicts are a huge
relief for the people involved, and a vindication of the right to peaceful
protest.

"Across the UK, people power is keeping the threat of unconventional oil and gas
drilling at bay.

"We will continue to use our right to peaceful protest to oppose further
drilling at Horse Hill."

Millions of barrels of oil were discovered below  the site last year.

Stephen Sanderson, executive chairman of UK Oil and Gas, which owns a large
stake in the firm doing  the drilling, said earlier this year: "I would like to
reiterate for the umpteenth time, that we are not fracking at Horse Hill."

The cleared defendants were: Isabelle Bish, Thomas Burke, Paddy Horne, Stephen
Jackson, Neil Lamonby, David Powter, Daniel Nye, George Stubbs and one other.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTESTS: Protesters outside Redhill Magistrates' Court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            October 7, 2014 Tuesday

Video: The Pro-Democracy Protests in Hong Kong

BYLINE: JONAH M. KESSEL

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 194 words



HIGHLIGHT: The October 1st democracy protests in Hong Kong were the largest
since the student protests in Beijing in 1989. Here&#8217;s a look at how the
events unfolded, in video.


The October 1st democracy protests in Hong Kong were the largest since the
student protests in Beijing in 1989. Here's a look at how the events unfolded,
in video.

The Evolution of Joshua Wong | At age 17 he can't vote, but Hong Kong activist
Joshua Wong is leading a student movement for democracy.

Voices from Hong Kong's Protest | Hong Kong residents reflect on the recent days
of protests.

In Hong Kong, Protesters' Demands Denied | Outside of government offices,
tensions ran high as Hong Kong's leader refused to resign.

Scenes of Chaos in Hong Kong | Violent skirmishes broke out between
pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong and the men who tore down their
encampments on Friday in the neighborhood of Mong Kok.

Hong Kong, One Week Later | Pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong held one of
the largest rallies of their campaign Saturday evening, a gesture of defiance
following attacks on their occupied areas.

In Hong Kong, Deflated Hopes for Change | As the pro-democracy protests in Hong
Kong recede, one young woman reflects on the inevitable outcome and how it
forced her to confront the glaring inequities that she faces every day.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                              July 14, 2014 Monday

Women right activists' protest continues

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 235  words


KATHMANDU: The women right activists continued their protest today in front of
the Constituent Assembly for the seventh time today to remind the government of
their demands.

The women rights activists had begun their sit-in protest in front of the CA
building after ending an their earlier protest in the capital from April 29.
They changed their form of protest on June 2.

The National Alliance of Women Human Right Defenders, which is leading the
protest, had said they were changing the form of protest after the government
assured them of addressing their demands.

According to the activists, even though the government was positive about
addressing their demands, no action has been initiated. They have been staging
sit-ins in front of the CA building every Monday to remind the government of
their demands.

The activists have been demanding amendment to existing rape laws, a fast-track
court for prompt verdict delivery on rape cases, fresh directives for Nepal
Police to make the investigation process related to rape cases sensitive and
effective, implementation of the provision of penalty for the perpetrators and
ensuring rape and sexual violence victims' right to study and health services.

Their other demands include promulgating laws to recognise discrimination
against rape victims as social offence and a high level committee to investigate
rape cases that took place during the time of conflict.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Egypt saw 969 protests in September - Democracy Index

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 223  words


Egypt saw at least 969 demonstrations during September, 80 percent of which were
staged for political reasons, according to a Democracy Index report issued on
Wednesday.



The report cited that around 42 percent of the protests were arranged by the
Muslim Brotherhood, who staged 408 demonstrations in September.

The Cairo-based index added that most of the protests took place on Friday,
which "indicates that the Brotherhood used Friday prayers to mobilize a large
number of protesters."

"An observer would see a significant statistical decline in the Brotherhood's
organizational ability; as the first week in September saw 68 protests, which
decreased to 60 protests by the second week and 49 protests by the third,"
according to the Democracy Index that works under the International Development
Centre.

Supporters of deposed Islamist President Mohamed Mursi and the Brotherhood,
which he hails from, have repeatedly protested against what they call a "coup
against legitimacy" since the military ousted him on July 3 following mass
protests against his rule.

The protests climaxed following the government's crackdown on the two Cairo
sit-ins in mid-August where at least a thousand people were killed.

The report said that students represent the second largest group to stage
protests in September as they held 259 demonstrations this month.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2013 Aswat Masriya
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

Pakistan: Protests against anti-Islam movie continue

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: Islamabad/Lahore


Islamabad/Lahore, Sept. 25 -- Countrywide demonstrations continued in Pakistan
against sacrilegious film.The police in federal capital is still on red alert,
while heavy contingents of police have been posted at the US Consulate in
Lahore.

In Islamabad All Pakistan Minorities Movement staged protest demonstration
against the blasphemous movie.

In Lahore heavy contingents of police was posted at the US Consulate in Lahore
on third day of the protests. The special children held a rally under the aegis
of Jamat ud Dawa, while another protest rally organized by the women wing of
Wahdat ul Muslimeen. Christians also held rallies in Rawalpindi and
Cheechawatani to condemn the insulting movie. In Mian Channu protesters blocked
National Highway. Chaudhry Hafeez Akhtar MNA led a protest demonstration in
Harappa. The protesters blocked the road and chanted slogans against United
States. Complete shutterdown was observed in Pakpattan and students, traders and
people from other walks of life staged peaceful protest rallies. Shahdara Youth
Forum organized protest demonstration at GT Road in Ferozwala and blocked
traffic at Shahdara More. Protest demonstrations also held at Multan and Lodhran
attended by the people from political, religious and social groups. In Sindh
different religious groups organized rallies in Sukkur, Ghotki, Sanghar, Shahpur
Chakar and other cities and towns. The protesters chanted slogans and set the US
national flag on fire. In Qalat, Balochistan Sunni Tehrik organized a protest
rally. The speakers at the gathering demanded severe punishment to the
blasphemous filmmaker Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Pakistan: Protests against blasphemous film continue

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: LARKANA


LARKANA, Sept. 20 -- The protest against US film is continued in Larkana
district and cities here on Tuesday.

Suni Tehreek, Jamit Ahle Sunnat, Khaksar Tehreek, Jamiat Ulmae Islam and several
other civil society organizations in Larkana, Bakrani, Dhamrah, Sijawal Junejo,
Kamber-Shahdadkot held protest demonstrations and chanted angy slogans against
the Film mocking the Prophet.

The courtry wide protests are continued against the blasphemous US film on
Prophet Muahmmed, they widely condemned enraged demonstrators chanted
anti-American and Israil slogans in a protest.

They demanded the government to ban and withdraw diplomatic ties immediately and
submit the protest resolutions.

The protest rallies took out from different parts of districts and cities and
blocked main highway, raods for several hours, that suspended the traffic during
protest against the Film Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Protest rally held in Odessa in connection with 20th anniversary of Khojaly
genocide

BYLINE: E.Mehdiyev, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 535 words


Feb. 22--The 20th anniversary of the Khojaly genocide was marked by protest
march in the Ukrainian city of Odessa.

Representatives of the Ukrainian, Moldavian, Jewish, Turkish and Tatar youth
took part in a protest march, organized jointly by the Association of the
Azerbaijani Youth of Ukraine and the Youth Forum of the Organization of Islamic
Cooperation, the Association told Trend on Tuesday.

"Activists of the association, who organized protest march in the central
streets and squares of Odessa under the slogan "The Armenians have to answer to
history for the atrocities committed in Khojaly", members of youth organizations
of Turkish, Tatar, Jewish, Ukrainian and other nationalities distributed among
the local population booklets with information on the atrocities committed by
the Armenians in Khojaly.

Despite the frosty weather, the youth fell to the ground, forming the number
"613" -- such number of people became victims of the Khojaly genocide. Then 613
black balloons were released to the air, on which words "Justice for Khojaly"
were written, which was a call for justice, addressed to the world community and
international organizations.

Then, with the participation of the Diaspora representatives of number of people
living in the Odessa district, local and foreign students a ceremony of
remembrance of victims of Khojaly genocide was held. Speaking at the remembrance
ceremony the President of the Association Anar Tahirov and chairman of the
Association's Odessa organization Samir Aliyev brought the facts of numerous
crimes, genocide, ethnic cleansing and aggression of Armenia against Azerbaijan,
stressing that they can be traced over the past two centuries.

The event participants watched a documentary on Khojaly genocide, telling about
the atrocities the Armenians committed against children, women and elderly
people in frosty February night.

After watching the film Consul General of Turkey in Odessa Argan Hussein said
"Official Yerevan and the current leadership of Armenia directly involved in the
Khojaly genocide must be held before an international court".

Chairman of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organization Anton Daritchenko, Chairman of
the Moldovan youth organization Andrew Tetyu and others who spoke called the
historical injustice that after 20 years the international community has not
given the legal and political assessment of this tragedy.

At the end of the event for the legal and political assessment of the genocide
committed by Armenians against Azerbaijanis in Khojaly, an appeal to the
Parliament of Ukraine and international organizations was adopted.

The Armenian military forces committed genocide in Khojaly on Feb. 26, 1992.
Some 613 people were killed, including 63 children, 106 women and 70 old men. A
total of 1,000 civilians were disabled during the genocide. Eight families were
annihilated, 130 children lost one parent, and 25 lost both. Additionally, 1,275
peaceful residents were taken hostage, while the fate of 150 remains unknown.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120222-1AZ-Protest
-rally-held-in-Odessa-in-connection-with-20th-anniversary-of-Khojaly-genocide-02
22-20120222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              418 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Kosovo movement ends protest at one of two border checkpoints

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report in English by Pristina-based weekly Self-Determination Movement
website on 23 January

[News: "Protest at Dheu i Bardhe Terminated"]

On January 14, the government tried to violently suppress peaceful protest,
whereas on January 22, the government chose other methods to make impossible the
sustainability of the protest. The Kosova [Kosovo] Government continued this
special war throughout the day. The police obstructed the transport of all
logistical material necessary to assist protestors to survive extremely low
temperatures, such as tents, wood for heat, reflectors, generators, food and
drink.

Due to the logistical restrictions made by police which made impossible the
secure continuation of the protest at Dheu i Bardhe [Bela Zemlja],
representatives of Levizja VETEVENDOSJE! [Self-Determination Movement] in a
responsible manner ended today's protest at Dheu i Bardhe. A number of
protestors went on to join the protest at Merdare.

About 22.00 [ 2100 GMT], after declaring the ending of the protest there was a
problem between various protestors, but not for political reasons. It was
personal and isolated. The police are dealing with it and it is not related to
the ending of the protest.

At Dheu i Bardhe and at Merdare, leaders of Levizja VETEVENDOSJE! continually
called on protestors to be calm and measured [restrained]. They stated that
anyone who did not respect the peaceful plan for the protest would not be
considered part of our movement and unwelcome to stay amongst the protestors.

Source: Vetevendosje website, Pristina, in English 23 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                   Arab News

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday

Protests or no protests

LENGTH: 276 words


For weeks since the contagious uprisings took to the streets and squares of many
cities in the Arab world, we have been hearing rumors about protests and
"Fridays of Rage," we received calls from friends and heard some reports about
demonstrations and protests in Riyadh and other cities in Saudi Arabia. When
asked about these reports, our answer always was: "Where are you getting all
these stories from?"

By NASSER SALTI | ARAB NEWS

My wife and I were sipping coffee Thursday morning when I asked her about the
talk among women in the neighborhood and, what their take was on the would-to-be
protests.

She told me that one lady asked her son what is he going to do after Friday
prayer. The young man, in his early twenties, replied jocularly: "I do not know
exactly but I would probably join my friends in the protest." She asked him,
"What protest?"  dripping sarcasm, "For not letting you sleep until noon
throughout the week."

She said I know you are joking because just three weeks ago you and thousands of
young people rallied throughout the city celebrating the king's safe return
following his treatment in the US.

But the city was waiting whether it would be protests or no protests. Those who
have lived in Riyadh long enough know that the city has an instinct, and Riyadh,
unlike what some Orientalists may think, has no mysteries and no secrets. That's
why people here until now never have taken the protest stories seriously. Friday
night as the dust storm was sweeping over the city, my friend said, "I think God
is on the side of the government, nobody will enjoy a protest in a dust storm".

- Nasser Salti can be reached at nassersalti@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 9


           Copyright 2011 Arab News - Saudi Research & Publishing Co.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Study says protests will escalate

BYLINE:  ELLA SMOOK Metro Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words


South African politicians are to blame for "incentivising" violent service
delivery protests because of the way they react to such incidents, says a top
international researcher.

Hirsh Jain, a Harvard Law School researcher and visiting fellow at the
University of the Western Cape's Community Law Centre, recently published a
paper on his research into community protests nationwide between 2007 and the
middle of 2010.

Jain found that protest action in South Africa had become increasingly violent
since 2007, and that communities felt the only way to hold politicians to
account was to take aggressively to the streets.

Derek Powell, a senior researcher at the Community Law Centre, said one of the
questions raised by Jain's research was whether the increase in protests would
translate into different voting behaviour in the upcoming local government
elections, with angry communities ejecting non-performing political parties.

"Earlier research undertaken by Professor Susan Booysen of the University of the
Witwatersrand suggests that protesting communities actually return the incumbent
political party to office," he said.

"If this occurs in the 2011 election, it will be a signal that protests, not
elections, are the main mechanism for calling elected local officials to
account, and hence that local democracy is not maturing."

Jain's research shows that protests have "increased substantially" over the
course of the past two years, with an average of 8.7 protests a month during
2007 rising modestly to 9.83 during 2008 but shooting to 19.18 a month during
2009.

Protests remained a frequent occurrence during the first half of 2010, with an
average of 16.33 protests a month across the country. Protests have also become
more violent.

During 2007, about 41.6 percent of protests were violent, with people being
intentionally hurt, houses and other structures burnt, shops looted, rocks
thrown at passing motorists, tyres burnt or roads blocked.

By 2010, 54.08 percent of protests included elements of |violence.

Gauteng was "overwhelmingly the predominant site of |protests", with a third of
all action on its soil during the period of measurement.

The Western Cape came in second with 16 percent of the protests, followed by the
North West and the Eastern Cape.

Standing head and shoulders above other reasons for protesting, housing was
cited twice as often as electricity, water and generally poor service delivery.

Jain said the authorities had to evaluate the effectiveness of their current
approaches to community protests because, although they consistently condemned
violent protests, "much of what the state does, starting at the highest levels,
seems to incentivise engaging in flagrant displays of violence".

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday

Albanian opposition decides to resume protests in October 2010

LENGTH: 635 words


Text of report by Albanian leading national independent newspaper Shekulli, on
23 September

[Report by Denis Dedej: "Opposition Decides To Resume Protests in October"]

Even though it did not announce any specific deadline, the opposition implied
that it would wait until the end of the current month for its election
transparency demand [to be met] and, if this demand is not met, the opposition
would begin protests in October. This was the decision made by the left-wing
coalition yesterday.

Taking part in the meeting were PS [Socialist Party] Chairman Edi Rama, PDS
[Social Democracy Party] Chairman Paskal Milo, PBDNj [Human Rights Union]
Chairman Vangjel Dule, PDK [Christian Democrat Party] Chairman Nard Ndoka, PLD
[Party for Freedom and Justice] Chairman Spartak Ngjela, and G99 [Group99]
Chairman Erion Veliaj.

During the 60-minute meeting in one of Tirana's most renowned restaurants on the
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard, the opposition parties discussed the options about
the future political course, including that of the protests. The discussions
ended with the agreement on the resumption of the protests at a date and with an
agenda to be set in the coming days.

Meeting

Sources in the opposition meeting told Shekulli that the parties agreed that
after failing to capitalize on the big chance offered by the European Parliament
for a solution to the country's political crisis, the only way to bring an end
to this situation was by organizing massive protests throughout the country.

At the meeting the opposition leaders accused Prime Minister Berisha of lacking
the will to give his consensus for the 2009 Assembly election transparency by
reopening the ballot boxes. Under these circumstances the opposition decided to
resume the protests on a continuous basis.

The same sources said that the protests throughout Albania would resume in a new
situation created after the failure to take advantage of the chance offered by
the European Parliament. It was also agreed that the deadline and the dates for
beginning the protests would be discussed at a later date, on the basis of the
opinion provided by the PS.

The opposition leaders agreed to start preparations for democratic protests and
create the right atmosphere for them. They exchanged opinions about the sequence
of the protests. However, it was agreed that the decision on this issue should
be made by the PS forums, since the PS leaders are the opposition leaders.

Nevertheless, the scheme will be the same as the one used in the protests of
previous months, that is, the protests will be first held in towns all over the
country and then they will culminate with a major protest [in Tirana].

Stance

PLD Chairman Spartak Ngjela, speaking in the name of the opposition, declared
that the meeting had decided on the resumption of massive protests.

"We undertook to lead the people in the protests, because a people whose rights
have been violated and who still fail to protest, is destined to have no future.
The protests will begin all over Albania in October. We will later decide the
day the protest will be held in Tirana," declared Spartak Ngjela.

He said that the vote manipulation, the economic degradation, the moral decline
of the Albanians and the entire society, the loss of the perspective, and the
major confusion stemming from a loss of confidence in this government of
corruption, theft, and abuse all obliged the opposition to stand up and assume
its moral responsibility.

"Albania wants protests and we will, certainly, lead the people, with
responsibility, until this government is removed from office, until the current
prime minister resigns, until this government resigns from the political scene
for all the reasons I just mentioned before," declared the opposition
representative.

Source: Shekulli, Tirana, in Albanian 23 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1472

LENGTH: 266  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the local people in Hyderabad on
Friday.  According to details, the activists of the JSQM under the leadership of
Abdul Fateh Channa, Haji Anwar Mallah and others staged protest for the recovery
of their arrested party leaders namely Akash Mallah and Noor Muhammad Khaskheli.
Members of the Ahl-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat under the leadership of Maulana Abdul
Majeed, Muhammadullah Qureshi, Abdul Ghaffar Shakir and others staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of Shaheed Moulana Abdul Ghafoor
Nadeem.

The activists of the Awami Tehreek Tando Allahyar chapter under the leadership
of Farid Kalhoro, Dhani Bux Khaskheli and others staged a protest demonstration
for the arrest of the killers of Siyani Khaskheli. The people of the Khoso
community, residents of district Matiari staged a protest demonstration against
the atrocities of an influential landlord namely Ferozuddin Shah. The people of
the Oad community staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the killers
of their community youth namely Ameer Gul Oad.

A man namely Sultan Mughal along with his family members, residents of Latifabad
No. 8 staged a protest demonstration against his brothers for ejecting him from
the house.  The PPP workers of Chambar district Tando Allahyar staged a protest
demonstration against the local party leadership for neglecting them. The
activists of the Jamaat-e-Islami under the leadership of Maulana Abdul Waheed
Qureshi, Shaikh Shaukat Ali and others staged a protest demonstration against
the proposed razing of Masjid-e-Aqsa.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            February 5, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: Protest rallies observed across Pakistan in favour of Dr Aafia

LENGTH: 390  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Feb. 05 -- ISLAMABAD, The Pakistan Professional Forum has observed
protest rally in favor of Dr Aafia Siddiqui after convicting her by the US
jury.The protest rally was started from Blue Area to China Chowk, addressing the
protest rally the Naib Ameer of Jamat-e-Islami Punjab Mian Muhammad Aslam has
said that the people of Pakistan could not accept the US jury verdict because Dr
Aafia was innocent and time was not far when she would be released.He also urged
President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani to bring
Pervez Musharraf to face the court. The central leader of Jamat-e-Islami Asif
Luqman Qazi said that if Dr Aafia Siddiqui was not released, the serial of
rallies would continue until her release.He said that if Aafia Siddiqui had
committed any crime then her trial should have been held in Pakistani's court.

He said that Pakistan should quit from the so called US alliance and war against
terror.Earlier President Asif Ali Zardari has directed the government to
establish contact with Dr Aafia Siddiqui's family.Meanwhile the protest rallies
were observed in all over the country against the US jury's judgment convicted
Dr Afiya Siddiqui.According to a private TV channels, several organizations in
all cities of Pakistan held protest rallies while a huge rally was observed in
Quetta to show sympathy with Dr Aafia Siddiqui.Talking to a protest rally Dr
Fauzia Siddiqui, the sister of Dr Aafia Siddiqui has appealed the people of
Pakistan to stand against US jury's verdict and convey the message to US
government.Talking to a private TV channel, Dr Farogh Naseem, a famous lawyer
has said that if any appeal was not registered against the US jury's verdict
then it would be the final verdict.Another protest rally was held in Karachi
organized by PASBAN where hundreds of people observed protest and demanded that
Dr Aafia Siddiqui was innocent therefore she should be released as soon as
possible.The students have also held a protest rally in Gujranwala and the
participants of the rally demanded from Pakistani government to support Dr Aafia
Siddiqui and put pressure on US government for the release of Dr Aafia.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                           September 21, 2015 Monday

Photo - Anti-army protest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 66 words


Anti-army protest. Ultra-Orthodox youth watch yesterday as demonstrators in
Jerusalem's haredi neighborhood of Mea She'arim protest the detention of a
yeshiva student who failed to appear at the IDF enlistment center last month.
The student was expected to be in detention until after Succot, but in the face
of mounting protests, authorities decided to release him tomorrow, ahead of Yom
Kippur.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anti-army protest. Ultra-Orthodox youth watch yesterday as
demonstrators in Jerusalem's haredi neighborhood of Mea She'arim protest the
detention of a yeshiva student who failed to appear at the IDF enlistment center
last month. The student was expected to be in detention until after Succot, but
in the face of mounting protests, authorities decided to release him tomorrow,
ahead of Yom Kippur. (Credit: Marc Israel Sellem/The Jerusalem Post)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                           September 11, 2015 Friday

Clashes, protests against court decision

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, Sept. 11 -- Clashes and protest demonstrations were held at several
places in response to protest call given by separatists against the high court
ban on beef ban.

The police fired smoke shells and resorted to lathi to disperse the post Friday
protest at several places against the beef ban. Senior separatist leaders Syed
Ali Shah Geelani, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, Mohammad Yasin Malik and Shabir Ahmad
others were either places under house arrest or detained by police.

The day begun with tension over the beef ban, soon after the Friday prayers
large number of youths took to streets at Nowhatta in old Srinagar and tried to
held a protest demonstration against the beef ban. The policemen deployed there
prevented them from holding the protest.

Police used tear smoke shells to disperse the angry protesters .The youths also
pelted stones towards the security forces. In Sopore town clashed erupted in the
township after police prevented them from holding the protest demonstration.

Police resorted to aerial firing to disperse the protesters who alleged hurled
stones on the government forces in Pulwama. Protest demonstration was also held
after Friday prayers outside Masjid Hamza Amirakadal. Amid slogans the
protesters tried to march towards clock tower Lal Chowk, however, police swung
into action and detained number of protesters.

Anti-beef ban protests rocked Kashmir University as well where hundreds of
students and scholars amid pro-freedom, pro-Geelani and anti-India, anti- BJP,
RSS slogans marched on the campus of the varsity.

Protest march was taken out in Central Kashmir's Ganderbal district that was
headed by Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front leader Noor Muhammad Kalwal. Reports
said that the march was taken out form Markazi Jamia Masjid Beehama and
culminated peacefully amid pro-freedom and pro-Islamic slogans. Peaceful protest
march was also taken out in Kangan and Lar town of the district.

In Budgam district witnessed scores of protest marches shortly after Friday
prayers. A police official said that these protest marches culminated peacefully
and police did not use any force on the protesters. The protest marches against
the beef ban were taken out from main market Budgam, Krimshora, Khansahab,
Shamsabad, Aarigam, Raithan, Dreygam, Kanira and other places.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday

Turkish interior ministry urges to cease protests

BYLINE: Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words


Oct. 08--Turkish Interior Minister Efkan Ala urged the population of Diyarbakir,
Mardin, Siirt, Mus, Van and Batman provinces to stop the riots and protests, as
they are becoming dangerous, Turkish newspaper Milliyet reported Oct. 8.

"No question can be resolved through the riots and protests," he said.

In early October the Kurds-populated Syrian town of Kobani, was taken under
control by the IS. The move triggered mass protests among the Kurds in six
provinces of Turkey. Some 15 people were killed during the protests. Following
the protests, a curfew was declared in the provinces of Diyarbakir, Mardin,
Siirt, Mus, Van, Batman.

On Oct. 2, 2014, the Turkish parliament adopted a mandate that gave permission
for the country's armed forces to participate in the military operations abroad.

Turkish PM Davutoglu said the country would do anything possible to protect
Kobani, adding that Turkey will take part in ground operations against the IS in
Syria only if the airspace of Syria is declared a no-fly zone.

The terrorist organization known as the 'Islamic State' (IS, formerly ISIL or
ISIS) was created in 2003 in Iraq. Between 2004 and 2006, the organization was
led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, and consisted of 11 radical Islamist groups, which
had close ties to the terrorist organization Al-Qaeda.

Following the start of military confrontation in Syria in 2013 between the armed
opposition and the government forces, the IS penetrated the country. The
organization said at the time it refuses to take the oath of Al-Qaeda and
declared 'a holy war' against all groups in Iraq and Syria, as well as the
Syrian government forces.

In late June of 2014, the IS announced about the creation of the 'Islamic
Caliphate' on the territories under its control in Iraq and Syria. In turn,
Iraqi authorities asked the international community for help in fighting the IS.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141008-1AZ-Turkish-interior-ministry-urges-to-cease-protests
-1008-20141008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              428 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                            February 07, 2014 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

Up In Flames Protests becoming increasingly violent

BYLINE:  Caryn Dolley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 326 words


There has been a surge in violent protests across the country as elections loom,
with nine people dying, allegedly at the hands of police, in five weeks.

This death toll is equal to the total number of people killed during protests
throughout last year, according to statistics from the South African Institute
of Race Relations.

There are at least five protests a day in South Africa, says the Institute for
Security Studies.

This week a number of protests erupted around the country, with the East London
city hall being petrol bombed during one flare-up and in another, a man being
shot dead in Sebokeng, south of Joburg.

Yesterday in the Western Cape there were protests in Sir Lowry's Village and in
Kuyasa, Khayelitsha. Roads were closed and protesters targeted journalists.

These protests come days after President Jacob Zuma called on the public to act
within the law and police to exercise restraint.

Race relations institute figures show there have been four deaths in the North
West, three in Limpopo and two in Gauteng.

Police ministry spokesman Zweli Mnisi said: "We are concerned, not only from the
viewpoint that police might have shot (protesters). Any loss of life at a public
protest is unacceptable."

He said the police respected the right of people to protest, but expected them
to do so within the law.

"What we're seeing of late is criminality, police being attacked," Mnisi said.

Gareth Newham, the Institute for Security Studies' governance, crime and justice
division head, had expected to see an increase in protests this year as had
happened before the last provincial and national elections in 2009.

During electioneering campaigns, residents believed that holding protests could
get the attention of politicians.

Newham said the deaths this year were "a new dynamic" in protests and it was not
clear what was behind this.

He said it could be as a result of protests being more violent or because police
involved were not properly trained. 8P2

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                August 12, 2013

Turkish PM Erdogan vows crackdown on anti-government demonstrations if protests
flare again.

LENGTH: 146  words


Turkey's PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the country's security forces would be
ready to respond to any anti-government protests if they flared again after
summer holidays.

The protests have nothing to do with freedoms, Erdogan said. Deputy PM Bulent
Arinc recently said that the government had intelligence reports suggesting that
there would be more anti-government protests this autumn.

The anti-government protests engulfed Turkey's major cities, including Istanbul
and the capital Ankara, in June after police cracked down on demonstrators
seeking to save a park in Istanbul. The clashes between the protesters and
security forces left five people dead and thousands people were injured and
arrested.

The police crackdown on the park protesters angered many Turks and the initial
Gezi park occupation transformed into a nationwide political movement against
the AKP government.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

BRIEF: Employees of Iranian Hamadan Telecom protest due to working hours, salary
cuts

BYLINE: S. Isayev and T. Jafarov, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


Oct. 24--Employees of Iran's Hamadan Telecommunication company have staged a
protest in front of company's headquarters, ILNA reported.

This is the second time this year that the employees of Hamadan Telecom are
staging protests because of small pay.

Reportedly, the employees' working hours and salary both were cut in half, which
was the reason for protests.

Currently the employees are working 4 hours a day, while receiving salary which
is not enough, because of high prices in the country.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Iran protest, Hamadan Telecom

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121024-1AZ-BRF-Employees-of-Iranian-Hamadan-Telecom-protest
-due-to-working-hours-salary-cuts-1024-20121024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              432 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Palestinians call for Friday protests to demand end to Oslo Accords

BYLINE: KHALED ABU TOAMEH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 346 words


Palestinian activists have called for mass demonstrations in the West Bank on
Friday to demand an end to the Oslo Accords and other agreements signed between
the PLO and Israel.

The call came as public transportation workers and social activists announced
that they have suspended their protests against the high cost of living until
Sunday.

The decision to suspend the protests came despite calls from many youth groups
to continue demonstrating against Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam
Fayyad.

Some activists said they have come under heavy pressure from the PA leadership
to suspend the protests that swept through the West Bank in the past 10 days.

The activists said that the PA leadership was worried that "outside elements"
were taking advantage of the protests to incite against PA President Mahmoud
Abbas.

PA leaders were also concerned that the protests could plunge the West Bank into
anarchy and lawlessness and "benefit the Palestinians' enemies."

The protests were initially directed only against Fayyad and his government's
economic policies.

But in the past few days Palestinians also started demanding the resignation of
Abbas and the cancellation of the Oslo Accords.

On Wednesday, an anti-corruption group in the West Bank issued a call for mass
demonstrations to demand an end to the Oslo Accords.

Signed by the Coordinating Committees of the Palestinian Revolution Against
Corruption and Dependency, a statement published in Ramallah said that the
demonstrations would be held under the motto "The Friday of National Dignity."

The group said that it was also demanding the cancellation of the Paris
Protocol, which regulates economic ties between the PA and Israel.

In his weekly radio address to Palestinians, Fayyad renewed his appeal to Arab
countries and Western donors to provide the PA with urgent financial aid to ease
the economic hardships.

He said the PA has been suffering over the past two years from a severe
financial crisis because of lack of international aid and that the current
crisis was the worst since the establishment of the PA in 1994.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 325

LENGTH: 231  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to details, the civil
society members led by Punhal Sario, Taj Marri and others staged a protest
demonstration against the attack on Amar Sindhu and Irfana Mallah in Karachi.
The leaders of the Indus Social Forum and DSF also participated in the protest.
The activists of Sindh Peoples' Youth Taluka Rural Hyderabad led by Fida Hussain
Mughal and others staged a protest demonstration against the Sindh Minister for
Fisheries Zahid Ali Bhurgari. Residents of village Khambhri Taluka Moro
including Haji Hamzo Khoso, Muhammad Aachar Khoso and others protested against
the occupation of watercourses by the influential landlords. Residents of Samaro
including Arjun Kolhi, Krishna Kolhi and others protested against the actions of
their area Police.

The members of Pakistan Paramedical Staff Association led by Sharif Palari,
Muhammad Ali Chandio and others recorded a protest demonstration in favor of
their demands. The activists of Awami Party Pakistan led by Taj Mari, Punhal
Sario and others protested against the shortage of water in Sindh. The contract
based vaccinators of the Health Department Sindh staged a protest demonstration
for the regularization of their services, otherwise they have threatened to
accelerate their protest circle.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Murree Road be declared 'protests free'

BYLINE:  F. P. Report

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 351

LENGTH: 195  words


Due to increasing protests demonstrations, the city district government
Rawalpindi has failed to declare Murree Road protests free which cause immense
inconvenience and problems to citizens while travelling on the busiest road of
the district.

In the most recent protest against prolonged power outages on Murree Road,
hundreds of violent protesters damaged public property and traffic remained
suspended for all kinds of traffic for several hours but police remained
helpless to control the situation as protesters outnumbered security personnel.

Former Commissioner Rawalpindi Zahid Saeed had started efforts to make Murree
Road protest free exactly like ban of staging protest demonstrations on Mall
Road Lahore. Moreover, traders, people from various sectors of life and social
organizations had also initiated movement to declare Murree Road protest free.

After the transfer of former Commissioner Zahid Saeed, his successor
commissioner Rawalpindi Israrullah Bosal could not continue efforts in this
connection.

Citizens demanded concerned authorities to take effective steps to make Murree
Road protest free as increasing protests and rallies cause inconvenience to
them.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday

WASL protest allegedly stopped by Army

LENGTH: 477  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, June 24 -- Parents of missing and disappeared Tamil youth staged a
protest in the Killinochchi town yesterday to urge the authorities to release
information of the whereabouts of their children.

The protest, which was organized by the 'We Are Sri Lankans' organization, was
allegedly stopped by military personnel in the area who had allegedly explained
to them that staging protests in the area was not permitted. The protesting
parents held placards and photographs of their missing children and shouted
slogans urging the authorities to release information about their children who
had gone missing during the war.

"These youth went missing at a time when a very different political situation
existed in the country. But now that the war was over, it is vital to tell these
parents where their children are so that they could go back to living their
lives again in peace," WASL Executive Committee member and former Inter
University Students Federation (IUSF) Convener Udul Premaratne said, speaking at
the protest held yesterday. He urged the government to ensure that the
democratic rights of these people were secured. "If the government took measures
to release the information of the missing youth, Sri Lanka wouldn't be
experiencing interference from other countries," Premaratne added.

Meanwhile, Premaratne also alleges that two individuals attached to WASL -
Sinnathurei Rajendran and Lalith Kumar Weeraraju, who assisted in organizing the
protest, had been detained at a military camp from Wednesday and had only been
released after the protest was stopped yesterday. He also alleged that military
personnel had visited several homes in Killinochchi on Wednesday and told the
people to forget about the protest.

Similar protests had been organized in the Trincomalee and Vavuniya districts
earlier for the same cause by WASL.

Army denies involvement

The Army denied that military personnel had been involved in obstructing a
protest that was carried out yesterday by the parents of missing and disappeared
Tamil youth in Killinochchi yesterday.

The 'we are Sri Lankans' organization which had organized the protest said that
the military had intervened to scuttle the protest claiming that people were not
allowed to carry out protests in the area. Their Executive Director, Udul
Premaratne said that more than 200 military personnel had tried to stop the
protest from taking place.

However Military Spokesman, Major General Ubaya Medawala said that there had
been no military involvement. No military assistance was requested as it was a
peaceful protest which did not require any military presence," Major General
Medawala further said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Mirror Sri Lanka. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 25, 2011 Monday

Al-Jazeera highlights protests in Iraqi cities calling for US forces pullout

LENGTH: 380 words


Protests in Iraq

Doha Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1535 gmt on 24 April
carried the following announcer-read report: "Iraqi protesters in Iraq have
urged all Iraqi governorates to stage protests and sits-in aimed at driving the
US occupation forces out of Iraq and releasing detainees. In the meantime, a
number of Al-Ramadi people staged an open-ended sit-in calling for the
withdrawal of the occupation forces from Iraq."

Immediately afterward, the channel carried a video report highlighting the call
by the people of Mosul on all Iraqi governorates to stage protests, since they
"share the same suffering." The video added: "The protesters started quoting the
slogans of the Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions. With one voice they say: The
people want the regime to fall."

The video added that the people of Tikrit responded to the call by protesting,
"but the security forces convinced them to end the sit-in for a few days until
they obtain the required permission." It added that the protesters told the
police that they would "protest a few days later."

He went on to say: "People in the city of Al-Ramadi staged protests in the
centre of the city, but the security forces refused to allow this and designated
a place at an entrance of the city where they could protest." He continued by
saying that "people began protesting and hoped that they would be able to reach
the city centre some day and protest there."

The video continued by saying: "It seems that protests are contagious, as they
spread from one city to another. Protests were staged in Al-Sulaymaniyah
Governorate in northern Iraq, and lasted for many days. Then, the Kurdish
Peshmerga forces intervened and raided the location of the sit-in.

"In Baghdad, preparations are under way to launch a massive protest once the
100-day deadline, set by Iraqi Prime Minister Al-Maliki, expires. But the
situation in Baghdad is very unstable. There is a gap between the stance of some
politicians on protesting in support of Bahrain, to extend support on a specific
political issue, and the stance of protesters in the Al-Tahrir Square in
Baghdad, who chant slogans in support of Iraq and want a united Iraq, away from
sectarianism and corruption."

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 1535 gmt 24 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Khairpur Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1775

LENGTH: 160  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Khairpur Press Club on Saturday. According to details, the
candidates, who had passed written test for the posts of PST, staged a protest
demonstration for the issuance of offer orders to them. A disabled man namely
Mujahid Hussain Phulpoto, resident of village Saida staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of job to him according the disabled quota.

The leaders of different political, social and religious parties staged a
protest demonstration for the arrest of the accused men in the murder of Late
Koral Khan Abbasi, the father of a senior journalist Hafeez Abbasi. The
residents of village Londo Khuhro staged a protest demonstration in favor of
their demands. The people of the Soomro community recorded a protest
demonstration against the Thari Mirwah Police for not arresting the accused
murderers of their community man Late Ghulam Abbas Soomro.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            January 18, 2011 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1770

LENGTH: 311  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by the people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Monday.  According to details, the
people of the Dars community under the leadership of Deedar Ali Dars and others,
residents of Mithi district Tharparkar staged a protest demonstration for the
immediate arrest of the killers of their community man Lakha Dino Dars.

The leaders of the Rehabilitation of Flood Affectees Sindh Tehreek under the
leadership of Abdul Hafeez Jataoi, Ali Gohar Chandio and others staged a protest
demonstration for the immediate rehabilitation of the IDPs of Sindh. The members
of the Pakistan Human Rights Support Organization including Muhammad Asif Khan,
Inquilab Khan and others staged a protest demonstration against the killing of
journalist Wali Khan Babar. A man namely Ali Murad, resident of Hyderabad staged
a protest demonstration for the provision of a government job.

The IDPs residing at the camps of Noonari village Hyderabad under the leadership
of Abdul Hadi Rind, Manzoor Gadehi and others staged a protest demonstration
against the non provision of facilities to them. The members of the Tanzeem
Falah-o-Behbood for the handicap persons under the leadership of Nadeem Ahmed
Shaikh, Ubaidullah Korai and others staged a protest demonstration for the
provision of jobs to disabled persons. The workers of PPP Bano Chapter of
district Thatta under the leadership of Mushtaq Mangarhar, Muhammad Eisa Bhatti
and others staged a protest demonstration against the local party leadership.

The members of the Pakistan Veterinary Medical Association under the leadership
of Dr Bakhshal Khan Thalo, Dr Mubarak Jatoi and others staged a protest
demonstration for the acceptance of their demands. The members of the Hyderabad
Action Committee also continued their protest demonstration in favour of their
demands.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

IUSF complains to Inspector General of Police

LENGTH: 275  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, May 7 -- The Inter-University Student Federation (IUSF) yesterday
lodged a complaint with the Inspector General of Police, Mahinda Balasooriya
against an attack on them by the police when they held a protest march in
Colombo recently.

IUSF spokesman, Udul Premaratne said on May 4 the protest commenced near the
Vihara Maha Devi Park at 11.00am and police intervened and tried to put a stop
to the protest.

"Initially when we started the protest the police came and intervened in the
matter. They told us not to carry out the protest. We asked him which law gave
them the authority to stop us from carrying out a protest? They accepted they
had no right to do so and allowed us to proceed with the protest," he said.

Premaratne said after the student had walked about a kilometre, the police had
barricaded their path and refused them space to proceed with their protest. He
said within a short space of time union members were assaulted. Five had been
wounded and one who was seriously wounded had to be hospitalised.

"It is completely unacceptable. They have no authority to do such a thing. It is
usually common for the police to fire tear gas when situations get very intense.
However we had just begun the protest. There was no need for them to harass us
in the way they did," he said.

The IUSF carried number of protests this week against amendments to be made by
the University Grants Commission to reduce the duration of the nursing degree
from four to three years. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Mirror Sri Lanka. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit
Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                      Copyright 2010 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1468

LENGTH: 175  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Monday.  According to details, a man namely Qamaruddin Arain along with his
family members staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his 14 year
old kidnapped daughter Shazia. A woman namely Ameena Bibi staged a protest
demonstration for the arrest of the killers of her son.

The activists of the Pakistan Peoples Party Tando Jam chapter under the
leadership of Altaf Hussain Unar and others staged a protest demonstration in
favour of their demands. A man namely Beeban Bheel, resident of Deeplo district
Tharparkar staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his 8 stolen
camels.

A PPP worker namely Yousuf Kumbhar, resident of Naukot staged a protest
demonstration against a local PPP leader namely Babu Sohail. The people of the
Palari community, residents of village Ali Nawaz Palari under the leadership of
Gul Palari, Yousuf Palari, Wazeer Palari and others staged a protest
demonstration against the actions of local influential men of their area.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1467

LENGTH: 255  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Sunday. According to details, the shopkeepers of the Kohinoor Market Hyderabad
staged a protest demonstration against the actions of the local police. The
members of the Pakistan human Rights Forum under the leadership of Mehboob
Sangi, Abdul Ghani Khoso and others staged a protest demonstration against MPA
Abdul Karim Khoso.

The residents of Kotri under the leadership of Abdul Khaliq Gopang, Abdullah
Jakhro and others staged a protest demonstration against the In-charge of the
local utility store for selling items of daily use at his favourite rates.

A man namely Farooq Ahmed Nizamani, resident of Tando Qaiser recorded a protest
demonstration for the provision of financial assistance. The sacked IBA test
passed primary school teachers under the leadership of Azam Ali Siddiqui, Syed
Noman Shah and others staged a protest demonstration for the reinstatement of
their services and issuance of their withheld salaries.

The residents of WAPDA Colony Jamshoro under the leadership of Malik Zahoor
Ahmed, Muhammad Punhal Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for the
supply of gas in their colony.

A woman namely Jamshed along with her daughter-in-law namely Shehzadi staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of her abducted son namely Zohaib. The
activists of the Jeay Sindh Mahaz (JSM) under the leadership of Ghulam Nabi
Dahri, Madad Ali Chang and others staged a protest against the shortage of water
in the Sindh province.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday

Different protest staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1465

LENGTH: 194  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Friday. According to details, local hockey players of Hyderabad under the
leadership of Aslam Khan Niazi, Zafar Rajput and others staged a protest
demonstration against the Secretary of the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

The activists of the Ahal-e-Sunat Wal Jamat under the leadership of
Muhammadullah Farooqui, Abdul Ghaffar and others staged a protest demonstration
against the attack of their party leader namely Allama Abdul Ghafoor. The
members of Pakistan WAPDA Employees' Pegham Union under the leadership of Rana
Mehmood Ali khan, Yaqoob Alam and others staged a protest demonstration in favor
of their demands.

The local cricket players under the leadership of Zafar Ali, Hamza and others
staged a protest demonstration against the ban on the national cricket players.
A man namely Beeban Bheel, resident of Deeplo district Tharparkar staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of his 8 stolen camels. The residents of
Latifabad No-7 staged a protest demonstration under the leadership of Noman Ali,
Muhammad Akram, Irfan Ahmed and others against a wine shop of their area.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              443 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Protests at utility hikes spread across Russia

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words


Anna Arutunyan After a spate of protest rallies rocked Russian cities over the
long weekend, experts and sociologists expect more to come. And a key trend in
the streets is that once-marginalised groups are uniting with the established
opposition, under a combination of both social and political demands.

The axis of the protests, however, has switched from Moscow and St. Petersburg
to outlying areas of the country. After an unprecedented 10,000-strong protest
in Kaliningrad last month over a hike in transport tariffs, up to 2,000 people
rallied in the far northern city of Arkhangelsk on Saturday, protesting an 18
per cent utilities hike. Over 500 protested in Samara against a similar hike,
and smaller rallies were held in Siberia's Kemerovo region.

Unresolved social and economic issues are driving these rallies and spilling
over into political protest, with some activists openly calling for Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin's dismissal. Labour-related conflicts grew nearly
threefold from 2008 to 2009, according to the Centre for Social and Labor
Rights, with 272 disputes and strikes in 2009 - up from 93 in 2008.

"General protests are increasing, and this is logical," said Pyotr Bizyukov, an
expert at the centre. "When labour disputes are not resolved, protests involving
a wider range of civic issues increase. Labour problems can turn into civil
problems, and you get [situations] like those we have seen in Kaliningrad and
Arkhangelsk."

While tariff hikes alone provoke protests every year and are not necessarily an
indicator, this year they became the last straw after other problems had
accumulated during the economic crisis, said Carine Clement of the Institute for
Collective Action, an organisation that brings together various left-leaning
groups.

"There is a trend towards more involvement in protest organisation since the
monetisation protests in 2005," Clement said, referring to massive rallies
against state reforms of the benefit and welfare system.

The protests in 2009, taken as a whole, outnumber the protests from 2005, said
Mikhail Delyagin, an economist at the Institute for Globalization Studies. "A
total of 5 million people were involved in protests in 2009, while in 2005 there
were about 3 million."

Social protests are increasing, he said, and they could have an impact on the
2012 elections. "A systemic [political] crisis in the country can't be ruled
out."

Vyacheslav Nikonov, head of the Politika think tank, dismissed such talk.
"Obviously, when a protest against something is organized, the authorities are
blamed," he said of the linkage between social and political demands in
Kaliningrad and elsewhere.

The real political battles are being waged over the regional Duma elections that
will take place on March 14, Delyagin said. There, tensions are comparable to a
"civil war", as various political figures struggle to maintain their standing
and their business interests, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

IIUI students staged protest rally against suicide blasts in the campus

SECTION: Vol. XXXIII No. 289

LENGTH: 164  words


Students of International Islamic University Islamabad (IIUI) staged a protest
rally here Tuesday after the suicide blast in the New-Campus.

According to details students residing in the University Hostels became agitated
over two suicide blasts in the university campus and staged a protest rally in
the varsity and also staged protests demonstration for evacuating the students
from University Hostels.

Later when federal Interior Minister A. Rehman Malik visited IIUI, the students
of the university were staging protest demonstration and he urged on the
students to observe unity and directed the police deployed at Campus not to
restrict the students from venting their emotions.

Students also chanted anti-America slogans during the protest and some students
wept bitterly at the loss of lives of their fellow students and friends and told
the Minister that security arrangements in the university were not better and
appealed to the Minister to punish the responsible elements.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 27, 2009 Friday

Kyrgyz opposition leader happy with protest results

LENGTH: 363 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 27 March: "The indefinite protests, scheduled for 20 April, will be a
constituent part of the election campaign," the leader of the [opposition]
Ata-Meken party, Omurbek Tekebayev, said at the end of the peaceful protest,
which was held in the Kyrgyz capital's Gorkiy Park today.

He said that the scheduled protests were held across Kyrgyzstan in difficult
weather conditions, particularly in the south of the country where heavy rain
had continued since the morning. He said that the rain was preceded by the
authorities' crippling threats against activists and protesters.

"The activists, who were invited to the protests particularly in Bishkek, were
arrested every day without explaining any reasons for this and held them at
detention centres of the National Security Service and the police. Students and
civil servants were threatened with expulsion and dismissal," he said.

"However, despite this, the protests were held in all places. We had said that
3,000 people would take part in the peaceful protest in Bishkek, but, according
to our estimates, over 6,000 people took part," he said.

[Passage omitted: the protesters put forward several political demands to the
president]

The party leader said that the resolution would be sent to the president.

"We are happy that we did not give in. We are banded together and determined to
bring about the change of power," the opposition leader said at the end of the
opposition protest today.

"The United People's Movement intends to prepare both for the presidential
election and the indefinite protests, which are scheduled for 20 April,
simultaneously. The indefinite protests will become a constituent part of the
election campaign," Tekebayev said in conclusion.

[Passage omitted: ex-defence minister Ismail Isakov said the indefinite protests
would begin on 20 April unless the authorities met opposition demands by this
time]

According to different estimates, including that of the law-enforcement
agencies, from 400 to 1,000 people took part in the protest in Bishkek.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0956 gmt 27 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Hindustan Times (New Delhi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 6, 2009 Tuesday

Protest continue over Pashupatinath priests appointments

BYLINE: Anirban Roy, Hindustan Times, New Delhi

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


Jan. 6--KATHMANDU -- Even after the ban on protests and rallies around
Pashupatinath temple, people on Tuesday continued with demonstrations close to
the holiest Hindu shrine of Nepal.

The Pashupati Area Development Trust (PDAT) on Monday evening had announced ban
on protests and rallies in and around the 17th century shrine as the disapproval
over the appointment of two Nepali priests had resulted in a violent protest.

The Bhandaris (junior priests) of the shrine have also reportedly extended
support to the protests on Tuesday, which interrupted vehicular movement in
Gaushala and Chahabil areas.

The protesters shouted slogans against the Maoist-led government and demanded
resignation of Prime Minister Prachanda. "Why is he (the Prime Minister) not
respecting the orders of the Supreme Court?" Ranjan Bhandari, one of the
protesters said.

The apex court on January 1 had asked the PDAT to put on hold the appointment of
the Nepali priests. The devotees are angry as the PDAT on Monday had filed a
writ petition at the Supreme Court claiming that the court's order was "unjust
and unfair".

However, the matter became intricate as PM on Monday had told that the
government would accept the SC verdict regarding the appointment of Bhattas in
Pashupatinath shrine.

Moreover, Information Minister Krishna Bahadur Mahara on Tuesday added more to
the controversy when he claimed that the Nepali priests were appointed to manage
the Bheti (offerings of devotees) at the temple.

Speaking to journalists at Dang, Mahara, who is also the spokesman of the
government, said that they wanted the offerings to be used primarily for social
welfare.

Meanwhile, Head priest (Mul Bhatta) of the Pashupatinath Temple Mahabaleswor
Bhatta told Hindustan Times that he is not a party to the controversy and wanted
to leave Nepal immediately.

"I want to leave as soon possible. I hope the devotees will help me to find ways
to go back home," the head priest, who hails from Karnataka, said. He has served
in Pashupatinath shrine for more than 15 years.

To see more of the Hindustan Times or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hindustantimes.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hindustan Times, New Delhi
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090106-HJ-Protest
-continue-over-Pashupatinath-priests-appointments-0106

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HJ


                          Copyright 2009 HT Media Ltd.


                              447 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   What the Papers Say Weekly Review (Russia)

                             March 31, 2008 Monday

NO EXTREMISTS

BYLINE: Yevgenia Zubchenko

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 4

LENGTH: 245 words



HIGHLIGHT: SIXTY-TWO PERCENT DENOUNCE ANY INTENTION TO PARTICIPATE IN PROTEST
ACTIONS; Protest moods in Russia are at a low level at this point.


Levada-Center sociologists asked the Russians if they viewed opposition
activists as extremists. As it turned out, most Russians regard Eduard Limonov's
banned National Bolshevik Party as an extremist organization. Thirty-four
percent respondents called NBP an extremist organization and 28% said it was
anything but. Grigori Yavlinsky's Yabloko and the Union of Right Forces are
viewed as extremist organizations by 8% respondents (each). Nine percent branded
Mikhail Kasianov's People's Democratic Union and 10% Garry Kasparov's United
Civil Front as extremist.

It may be added that all these political structures arrange protest actions on a
more or less regular basis. Yabloko activists picketed in front of the
Prosecutor General's Office and Interior Ministry earlier this month demanding
Maxim Reznik's release from the detention cell in St.Petersburg.

Sociologists say in the meantime that few respondents admit readiness to join
protests. Sixty-two percent Russians denounce any intention to participate in
protest actions. Only 22% will protest to defend their rights and freedoms, and
16% are undecided.

"Protests are always the lot of the active minority," political scientist
Alexander Kynev said. "The majority never participates in protests and not only
in Russia... On the other hand, even 5-6% of the population are sufficient to
carry out revolutionary changes."

(The opinion poll was conducted this March.)

Source: Novye Izvestia, No 53, March 28, 2008, p. 2

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                October 08, 2007
                              Business Day Edition

Violent protests

BYLINE: D Wolpert

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 124  words


Violent protests

I was stunned to read Phillimon Mnisi's letter stating violent protests such as
those at Wits University are likely to continue because of the "arrogant
attitude of management", Protests at Wits (October 5).

What claptrap!

Do we therefore infer that due to our president's arrogant approach to many
issues, we should give ourselves the right to engage in violent and destructive
forms of protest?

My suggestion is that while students have every right to democratic protest,
they are obviously in need of a proper education and should at least devote
ample time to their studies. However, we are approaching examination time and,
predictably, those who are ill prepared are once again vandalising their
learning institutions.

Rivonia

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           November 5, 2016 Saturday

Protests spill over to city as venue remains deserted

SECTION: CHANDIGARH

LENGTH: 306 words


Vaivasvat.Venkat@timesgroup.comLudhiana: Despite the ground opposite Vardhaman
industries being allocated as the venue for protests, the orders have not been
implemented, with protests still being conducted outside the DC office.A major
protest was conducted outside the VC office by Congress leaders on Friday. They
burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Another protest was staged by
a taxi driver and his supporters on Ferozepur road, disrupting traffic.

There was a violent protest outside Basti Jodhewal Police Station on Thursday as
well. On October 13, police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh, using his powers
under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, fixed GLADA ground opposite
Vardhaman Industries in Sector 39 A on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh road as venue for
any protest by political parties or other organisations. The decision was taken
to prevent inconvenience to the general public because of protests by political
parties and other organisations. However, the order remained only on the paper
as nothing was done for its implementation. Protests continue to be organized on
important city roads, highways and even outside the office of the deputy
commissioner. "Nothing has been done to implement the orders and it is the
general public that is at the receiving end. This order should be implemented
and offenders should be given stringent punishment. If a place for protests can
be fixed in Chandigarh, why can't the same be done in Ludhiana," asked advocate
Harjiot Singh. Police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh said, "We have
registered a case with regard to the protest carried out on Ferozepur Road on
Friday. Those who violate orders will be booked and we will implement the orders
stringently. We will not allow city residents to be harassed by protesters."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            July 13, 2016 Wednesday

Kashmir violence: Protests or no protests, forces to go full steam against
terror

BYLINE: Bharti Jain

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 368 words


NEW DELHI: Unfazed by violent protests in south Kashmir in the wake of Hizbul
Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani 's killing, the security establishment will
continue to go full-steam in its fight against terror. The encounter in Handwara
and the foiling of an infiltration bid in Keran on Monday exhibit the security
establishment's resolve to deal firmly with those who pick up arms and indulge
in violence.

According to a top officer of the security establishment, protests or no
protests, there would be no compromise on crushing terror with armed action.
Stating that J&K has witnessed several cycles of violence in the past, including
the protests over Amarnath in 2008 and the stone-pelting attacks that killed 150
civilians in 2010, the officer said the violent protests following Wani's
killing were another phase that would pass.

"Angry mobs will not distract us from our goal to neutralise terrorists who
endorse violence and hit our police and security forces. While we will ensure
judicious use of force to deal with local civilians, a terrorist who dares to
hit the state and indulges in mindless violence will have to face the
consequences, including death as the security forces challenge him," said an
officer.

Whether Wani's killing would spur a fresh round of local recruitment, the
security establishment on Monday said any such fallout will be prevented by
pushing a slew of welfare measures aimed at gainfully engaging the J&K youth and
boosting local industries like tourism and handicrafts. "The prime minister's
announcement of 80,000 crore package for J&K last year was a step in that
direction. The welfare schemes and initiatives covered in the package will start
rolling out soon, helping to generate employment in the Valley. This will reduce
terror recruitment," said a government official.

According to intelligence agencies, Wani's killing may have acted as a trigger
for outpouring of locals' angst against the state government, lack of jobs, etc.
"The violence was not an isolated reaction to Wani's killing," said an
intelligence officer.

A top officer of the security establishment said that signs of return to
normalcy were visible on Monday.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             May 19, 2016 Thursday

Sanghiya Gathabandhan to stage protest assembly in Mangalbazar

LENGTH: 213 words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, May 19 -- The agitating Sanghiya Gathabandhan, which decided to
extend its Kathmandu-centric protest for 10 more days, is preparing to stage a
protest assembly at Mangalbazar in Lalitpur on Thursday. The Gathabandhan
started a rally from Lagankhel before converging at Mangalbazar for assembly

The alliance of Madhesi and Janajati forces is holding protests in the Capital
to mount pressure on the government for addressing their demands in the new
constitution.

Senior leader of Sanghiya Samajwadi Forum Nepal, Ashok Rai said the assembly is
being conducted to garner support of local people. Rai's party is a key
constituent of the alliance,

The alliance that began Kathmandu-centric protest from Saturday has claimed that
the first phase of its protest has, so far, been able to put a spotlight on the
Madhes movement once again. Their second phase of protest announced on Wednesday
includes holding protest assemblies in three district of Kathmandu
valley-Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur-and major cities like Pokhara and Birgunj
outside valley.

Published: 19-05-2016 15:57

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday

BRIEF: Four policemen injured in Turkey protests

BYLINE: Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 192 words


Oct. 09--Four policemen have been injured as a result of the protests in
Turkey's Mersin province, Turkish Milliyet newspaper reported on Oct.9.

The protestors burned the building where the headquarters of the Peoples'
Democratic Party of Turkey was located.

In early October the Kurds-populated Syrian town of Kobani, was taken under
control by the IS. The move triggered mass protests among the Kurds in
Diyarbakir, Mardin, Siirt, Mus, Van and Batman provinces of Turkey on Oct.8.
against Turkey's policy of non-interference.

Some 22 people were killed during the protests. Following the protests, a curfew
was declared in the provinces of Diyarbakir, Mardin, Siirt, Mus, Van and Batman.

The school lessons were suspended in the Diyarbakir, Hakkari, Van, Batman and
Tunceli provinces of the country on Oct.8.

Additionally, Turkey canceled all of flights of Turkish Airlines to Diyarbakir
province on Oct.8 due to deterioration of the situation in the south-east of the
country.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141009-1AZ-BRF-Four-policemen-injured-in-Turkey-protests-1009-20141009

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              454 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Middle East Arabic press provide minimal coverage of Hong Kong protests

LENGTH: 483 words


Middle East press on 2 October continues to largely ignore the pro-democracy
protests that have been taking place in Hong Kong for five days against China's
plans to vet candidates for the 2017 elections.

The UAE's pro-government Al-Ittihad newspaper even reports on its front page the
country's congratulations to China on its national day, which falls on 1
October, without any mention of the demonstrations in Hong Kong.

Egypt's privately-owned daily Al-Misri al-Yawm, however, adopts a different
editorial line and highlights the protests on its front page. "The 'umbrella
protests' in Hong Kong defy the Chinese dragon," the paper declares, while
adding that the protests "overshadowed the celebrations of China's national
day".

Hong Kong's rallies have been known in the media as the "umbrella protests" as
both the weather and teargas forced protesters to use their umbrellas as a
shield.

Taking a stronger stance on the protests, Abdallah al-Madani of the Qatari
pro-government daily Al-Watan says that "Hong Kong is China's award and
headache" at the same time.

"Beijing's rulers thought that restoring control over Hong Kong peacefully in
1997 after 150 years of British rule is a victory for them and an end to a
problem that used to annoy them," he says.

"At the time they mistakenly thought that the mere change of educational
curricula will create a new generation of obedient Hong Kong inhabitants," he
adds. "But16 years after that event, the former British colony and its
inhabitants, who are different in their culture and lifestyle from their fellow
citizens in mainland China, remain a headache to the regime in Beijing," he
says.

"Return Yemen"

Meanwhile, the Gulf papers are preoccupied with the situation in Yemen, where
the Shi'i Huthi group seized key parts of the capital, Sanaa.

Most papers highlight the outcome of a meeting for the ministers of interior of
the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries on Wednesday where they discussed
the recent developments in Yemen.

"Gulf countries will not stand still before the sectarian foreign interferences
in Yemen; Sanaa's security is part and parcel of our security," reads the main
headline of Saudi Arab nationalist daily Al-Jazirah.

A similar statement features on the front page of UAE's pro-government Al-Bayan,
while Qatar's Al-Watan carries a less defiant tone with a headline saying: "Gulf
to 'Huthis': Return Yemen."

"Iraq's sovereignty red line"

Iraqi papers, for their part, highlight Foreign Minister Ibrahim al-Ja'fari
statements that the country's sovereignty is a "red line".

In a news conference the previous day, Al-Ja'fari said that Iraq does not need
foreign basis or troops rather it needs equipment and arms.

Al-Ja'fari's statements feature on both state-owned and privately-owned dailies,
which headline his remarks about Iraq's sovereignty.

Source: Middle East Arabic press review from BBC Monitoring in Arabic 02 Oct 14

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

BRIEF: Females in Turkey protest against country's participation in Iraq, Syria
conflicts

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 168 words


Oct. 02--Females of Istanbul protest against the parliament's adoption of
mandate, which will allow the Turkish Armed Forces to participate in operations
against the militants of the terrorist organization "Islamic state" in Iraq and
Syria, the Turkish newspaper "Milliyet" said Oct.2.

More than 200 women blocked the traffic on the bridge, which connects the
European and Asian side of Istanbul in protest against the mandate.

Istanbul police detained 16 females during the protests.

Turkey's parliament is currently discussing the mandate.

The opposition People's Republican Party (CHP) and the pro-Kurdish People's
Democratic Party (HDP) in Turkey are in favor of the adoption of the mandate.

The National Action Party (MHP) and the ruling Justice and Development Party of
the country also advocate for the adoption of the mandate.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141002-1AZ-BRF-Females-in-Turkey-protest
-against-country-s-participation-in-Iraq-Syria-conflicts-1002-20141002

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              456 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                               May 9, 2014 Friday

PTI allowed to hold protest

BYLINE:  Asim Qadeer Rana

SECTION: Vol. XIII No. 127

LENGTH: 295  words


Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Nisar said, "Approval to hold the
protest will be granted by Thursday, late night."

Nisar criticised the "new tradition" of holding sit-ins and protests. "This
newfound tradition of holding protests and sit-ins isn't good, not just for
Pakistan, but for any country," he asserted.

Nisar also laid down a few conditions for the PTI's protest, which included a
ban on the use of firearms or any kind of harmful weapons, including batons.

"Use of firearms or any harmful weapon will not be permitted. If any vehicle is
transporting a weapon, it will be seized and will not be allowed to pass
through," Nisar said. Use of containers would not be allowed, except for those
provided by the government, and "no infants are allowed".

"It's not fair for children to be dragged to these protests in this heat," the
interior minister said. "The only reason why we've decided to allow this protest
to go through is because the PTI and Imran Khan have been extremely determined,"
he said.

The minister said that no one would be allowed to carry ammunition in the
protest rally, and if any protester was found carrying a weapon, he would not be
allowed to enter Islamabad. "Police, Rangers and Frontier Corps personnel will
be deputed for the security of the resident of the twin cities."

He said the government would also not allow any protesters to enter the Red Zone
of Islamabad.

Nisar said that after the May 11 rally of the PTI, politicians should evolve a
consensus on holding protests without disturbing the routine life. The Islamabad
Capital Territory Administration would not create any hurdle in the way of
peaceful protests, he said. "A non-violent protest is the democratic right of
the opposition, and government respects such rights."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday

Rawalpindi nurses protest Lahore incident

SECTION: Vol. LXVIII No. 73

LENGTH: 349  words


The nurses of the garrison city on Friday staged a protest on the premises of
Benazir Bhutto Hospital against what they said brutal use of force by the Punjab
Police against their counterparts in Lahore.

The protesters claimed that the baton charge and torture had left two nurses
dead. The Lahore nurses have been protesting for the renewal of their services
for the last many days.

When the news of the killing came, all the nurses of Benazir Bhutto Hospital,
Holy Family Hospital, District Headquarters (DHQ) Hospital stopped work and
gathered at emergency department of Benazir Hospital.

They staged a peaceful demonstration to press the government for holding
impartial inquiry into the incident and bringing the killers to book.

More than 50 nurses, carrying placards inscribed with their demands, were
chanting slogans against the Punjab government and the police.

While talking to Dawn, Nurses representative Shamshad Nazir said that the nurses
staged token protest and if the killers were not arrested then they would launch
province-wide protest.

She said their protests did not affect the work in emergency wards and Intensive
Care Unit (ICU) as the nurses on duty in these wards were not invited to join
the protest.

She said that the protest was only for an hour to record our protest and they
would not want to create problems for the patients.

Gul Naz Jabeen and Huma Asif, nurses from Holy Family Hospital, said that
working condition was already not good for the nurses and job insecurity forced
the nurses in Lahore to protest.

They declined to buy the government's claim that they had not sent police to
disperse the peaceful protest of nurses.

"It is wrong because without the government consent, the police cannot take such
action," they said.

BBH Medical Superintendent Dr. Asif Qadir Mir told Dawn that the protest did not
create problem for the patients as few nurses staged a protest.

He said special arrangements had been made for the care of the patients and the
nurses had been requested to remain clam as the government would investigate the
matter and listen to their problems.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2014 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday

£7 million for Twaddell protest policing

BYLINE: David Young

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 267 words


The cost of policing a long-standing protest at a north Belfast community
interface is approaching £7 million, latest figures have indicated.

Violence flared in the unionist Woodvale area last summer when Orangemen were
banned from parading past the adjacent nationalist Ardoyne on the Twelfth of
July.

Loyalist demonstrators have maintained a continuous presence at a protest camp
at the interface at Twaddell Avenue ever since.

Justice minister David Ford yesterday revealed the cost of policing the Twaddell
protest had reached £5.45m by the end of December.

With police now estimating the daily cost of the operation at £40,696, the total
bill is now thought to be around £6.8 million.

As well as providing an update on the Twaddell protest, the minister confirmed
the total cost of policing last year's loyalist Union flag protests was almost
£22m.

Those demonstrations were triggered when Belfast City Council voted in December
2012 to limit the flying of the flag on top of City Hall. A number of the
protests descended into serious violence.

Police published the financial implications of the flag protests last year but
Mr Ford yesterday confirmed the PSNI bill from 3 December 2012 to 31 March 2013
was £21.9m.

Mr Ford, said around £250,000 had also so far been paid in criminal damage
compensation linked to the flag protests, with that sum set to increase.

Referring to the cost of policing both the flag protests and Twaddell the
minister said: "The flag protests and civil unrest have placed, and continue to
place, a financial, and indeed a more general, burden or cost on many different
sectors."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              460 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 176

LENGTH: 332  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Tuesday. According to details, the
Kolhi community people, residents of Nangarparkar recorded a protest
demonstration against attack on their homes by the armed men of Khoso community.
The protestors condemned performance of their area's police and demanded of the
high-ups to take notice of the matter for the provision of justice to them.

The contract based employee of the SSGC named Pir Bux Bughio, resident of
Citizens' Colony recorded a protest demonstration for the regularization of his
service. The devotees of Dargah Hazrat Syed Sakhi Shah Deewano Sultan Hashmi
(RA) recorded a protest demonstration against the issuance of threats for attack
on the dargah. They demanded of the concerned authorities to ensure the security
around the dargah, otherwise they have threatened to accelerate their protest
circle. The activists of the Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM) Hyderabad chapter
recorded a protest demonstration against arrest of their District President
Imtiaz Mirani, Ramiz Chandio, Riaz Balcoh and others.

The Bagri community people of Bhitshah led by Mohan Bagri and others staged a
protest demonstration for the recovery of their 12-year-old abducted girl named
Jamna, who has been allegedly kidnapped by the influential men including Altaf
Rind, Roshan, Sadam and others. The growers of different branches of Badin
Subdivision recorded a protest demonstration against the acute shortage of
irrigation water in different branches and canals. They demanded of the
government to take immediate measures in the matter for the supply of sufficient
irrigation water to them. The Bheel community people of Hala Naka recorded a
protest demonstration against the sale of their community girl named Pathani
Bheel. The protestors demanded of the concerned authorities to take action
against the father of the girl for selling his daughter and ensure recovery of
the girl.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 1, 2013 Wednesday

BRIEF: Demonstrators in Kutaisi protest against transfer of Georgia's Parliament

BYLINE: N. Kirtzkhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 151 words


May 01--TBILISI, Georgia -- A protest rally was held in Kutaisi against the
transfer of the parliament of Gerogia from Kutaisi back to Tbilisi.

The protest was held under the slogan 'Do not take away the parliament!'.

One of the organisers of the rally Eliso Ketiladze said all citizens believing
that the parliament should remain in Kutaisi, were invited to the protest rally.

The idea of transferring the parliament to Kutaisi belonged to Georgian
President Mikheil Saakashvili. Recently, the leaders of the victorious Georgian
Dream Coalition have made a statement about the functional impossibility of the
country's parliament in Kutaisi due to several reasons.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

Tags: Georgia's parliament, Georgia

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130501-1AZ-BRF-Demonstrators-in-Kutaisi-protest
-against-transfer-of-Georgia-s-Parliament-0501-20130501

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              462 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Cosatu to stage more road protests against e-tolling

BYLINE:  Mogomotsi Magome

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 433 words


Cosatu has warned of more drive-slow protests against e-tolling on Gauteng
highways after what it considered a "very successful" protest yesterday.

The labour federation and some of its affiliates embarked on a drive-slow
protest against e-tolling, which it says will be detrimental to the working
class if implemented by the government.

The protest, which started with a handful of cars driving slowly in the Pretoria
city centre, caused massive traffic delays, as was intended by the organisers.

The convoy, led by nearly 30 cars belonging to Cosatu members and branded with
the labour federation's posters and slogans, brought traffic to a near
standstill on the N1 and R21 highways.

Many motorists, especially those who were unaware of the planned protests,
appeared frustrated after being caught up in the massive traffic backlog.

The Tshwane metro police deployed more than 60 officers on motorbikes, and metro
police vehicles to marshal the traffic.

An officer was injured when his motorbike collided with a car taking part in the
protest.

Metro police spokesman Isaac Mahamba said the accident was the only incident
during the protest.

"The accident took place on the N1 direction south but both the officer and the
Cosatu motorist were taken to hospital and were stable.

"The officer did a U-turn as he was helping to control the traffic but the
motorist did not see him," said Mahamba.

He said though many motorists had been frustrated by the traffic, they appeared
to support Cosatu's stance and eventually accepted they would be stuck in
traffic for a while.

"Most of them were hooting in approval and showing their support," he said.

Cosatu's Gauteng provincial secretary, Dumisani Dakile, said they were
organising more drive-slow protests around the province.

"There will be more drive-slow protests because we want to make our point about
the e-tolls, which is that the public is against them.

"We've had a very successful protest today, even though the turn-out was very
little in the beginning. As the day progressed, you could see that many people
were supporting the protest.

"There are more drive-slow protests being organised and we know they will be as
successful as what you saw here today," he said.

Dakile said it was still too early to say whether the protests would make the
government change its tune on the implementation of the e-tolls.

"It's too early to tell, but with the many other protests that we are planning,
we hope to make a serious impact, and the more support we get from people, the
higher the chances of having this e-tolling scrapped.

"We are not backing down," said Dakile.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Third day of Pakistan anti-government protests top story on Iran's Press TV

LENGTH: 305 words


The third day of anti-government protests in Pakistan and growing "pressure" on
the country's government to resign was the top story in the 0500, 0600 and 0700
gmt news bulletins on Iran's English-language Press TV on 16 January.

The TV said that "pressuring is piling up" on the Pakistani government as
anti-government protests entered their third day in Islamabad. It described the
protests as the "largest political demonstration seen for years in the capital".
Press TV quoted "anti-government cleric" and protest leader Tahir-ul Qadri as
saying that he blamed Pakistan's "corrupt and incompetent leaders for the
country's woes".

Press TV reported that the Non-Aligned Movement, currently headed by Iran,
criticized the West's "double standards" at a recent UN Security Council debate
on terrorism, adding that "not much seems likely to be done about the global
issue". It said that the Security Council's failure to mention US drone strikes
amounted to "hypocrisy". Press TV's correspondent accused some Security Council
members of being the "world's greatest practitioners of state terrorism".

The TV went on to report that Syria's envoy to the UN had slammed the 15 January
bombing at Aleppo University as a "cowardly terrorist attack", accusing
"foreign-backed" rebels of being behind the blast. In a separate report, Press
TV described Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan's decision to appoint a special
governor for Syrian refugees in Turkey as "blatant interference in [Syria's]
internal affairs".

Press TV also highlighted the following reports in its bulletins: "Surge" in US
gun violence after shootings in two states; IAEA delegation arrives in Iran to
finalize framework agreement with Iran; NATO "enters" Mali as France deploys
ground troops and six allies pledge support.

Source: Press TV, Tehran, in English 0700gmt 16 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 171 words

ALGERIA

Protests started Feb. 12

Heeding demands of protesters, Algeria lifted a 19-year-long state of emergency
that had barred peaceful demonstrations.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

STABLE

BAHRAIN

Protests started Feb. 14

The ruling monarchy has refused demands for changes that would give more power
to the country's Shiite Muslim majority. An independent investigation found that
government security forces tortured and abused pro-democracy demonstrators this
year, killing at least 30.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

TEETERING

EGYPT

Protests started Jan. 25

A military council has ruled the country since the ouster of President Hosni
Mubarak in February. The council has pledged to hand over power to an elected
government this summer, but details remain uncertain and protests continue.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

TOPPLED

IRAN

Protests started Feb. 11

The Iranian authorities quickly quashed anti-government demonstrators who tried
to turn the sentiment of the Arab Spring against the Islamic republic.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

STABLE

BY BILL WEBSTER AND JON WILE/THE WASHINGTONPOST

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              June 13, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Iranians protest as hunger striker dies

BYLINE: Deutsche Presse-Agentur

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 129  words

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran


Protests were held Sunday - the second anniversary of Iran's disputed
presidential elections - by opposition supporters who clashed with police and
security forces.

The protests were overshadowed by the sudden death of Iranian dissident and
journalist Reza Hoda Saber, reportedly of a heart attack, while he was on a
hunger strike.

The opposition had called for silent protests against the government, their
websites reported. Demonstrations were planned in central and northern Tehran
but designed to avoid provoking confrontations with police.

The reports could not be independently verified because the government has
prohibited Western media from covering the opposition protests. President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was re-elected on June 12, 2009, despite accusations of
fraud.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 29, 2011 Sunday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 208

LENGTH: 272  words


Different protests were staged by different people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad press club on Saturday.

According to details, the activists of the JSMM and family members of central
leader, Muzaffar Bhutto staged a protest demonstration for his recovery.

The people of the Mallah community under the leadership of Maula Bux Mallah,
Noor Ahmed Mallah and other staged a protest demonstration for arrest of the
murderers of Muharram Mallah.

The members of the Hyderabad Action Committee under the leadership of Ashraf
Noonari, Ramzan Brohi and others staged a protest demonstration against the
illegal lease of land to Habib Group Company. The people of the Khaskheli
community under the leadership of Rais Khaskheli and others, residents of
village Safar Khaskheli, Jamshoro held a protest demonstration for the arrest of
the killers of Vakil Khaskeli and Surya Khaskheli.

A man named Ponah Bhel, resident of Mirpurkhas staged a protest demonstration
for the arrest of accused who tried to kidnap his sister Salmat. The residents
of village Sobho Khan Parhyar of Tando Hyder under the leadership of Anwer Ali,
Hur Parhyar and others staged a protest against area police for lodging fake
cases against them. A man namely Ali Gohar, resident of village Soomar Kerio of
Matiria staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his wife namely
Shabana. The retired employees of PTCL Kotri under the leadership of Abdullah
Jakhro and others staged a protest demonstration in favor of their demands. The
workers of PML-N Hyderabad chapter led by Comrade Qadir Bux Lakho and others
took out a rally to mark 'Youm-e-Takbeer'.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday

Tunisian social protests are "not political but popular uprising", expert says

LENGTH: 343 words


Social protests that erupted in Sidi Bouzid province and spread to other
Tunisian cities represent another example of a "spontaneous uprising" with
people helped by local union activists setting the tone and steering them away
from any political agenda, a Tunisian historian told Al-Jazeera TV on 27
December.

"This movement is similar to all major [social protest] movements that took
place in Tunisia's contemporary history in terms of spontaneity and spread,"
said Adnan Massar, who is a specialist in the history of Tunisian trade unions.

The current social protests "are very much like protests that happened in 1978
in terms of the role of labour unions in giving these protests a framework," he
said.

"People who took to the streets saw in labour unions the only thing that brought
them together," he argues.

"This provides so many lessons to political parties that have been active for
decades but have been unable to have a foothold in those events and could not
understand them and predict them," Massar opined.

"The Tunisian General Labour Union had never before led any of the social
protests except under pressure from its middle ranks, that is, regional unions
and local union activists. This is what is happening now," he said.

"The main union has its own considerations and calculations. But it is under
pressure from regional unions," Massar explained.

"It is the middle ranks that are in direct contact with people. They have won
popular trust and taken control of organizing these events and expressing
people's aspirations," he said.

"Giving a political framework to these protests would create problems instead of
offering solutions. The strength of these events may be undermined if other
groupings were to take control of them," Massar noted.

"As serious as they are, these protests would not sustain any structure that
would be set by any of the existing political parties whether they are legal or
illegal," he said.

"Statistically, these parties do not count for anything," Massar said.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2100 gmt 27 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday

Different protests staged in Khairpur

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1744

LENGTH: 166  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged in Khairpur by people in favour of
their demands on Wednesday. According to details, the members of the Citizens'
Action Committee under the leadership of Rasheed Ahmed Shaikh, Saleem Raza
Shaikh and others staged a protest demonstration against the local authorities
for depriving the poor and downtrodden people of the district of the zakat
funds. The activists of PPP-SB and SPY-SB under the leadership of Ehsan Memon,
Asim Magsi, Safdar Sehto,

Shehzado Oad and others staged a protest demonstration against the killing of
PPP-SB leader Muhammad Hashim Qambrani in Matli. The members of the ISO SALU
staged a protest demonstration against an attack on a madarsa in Jamshoro.

A woman namely Mst Zahra, resident of Madina colony along with her sons staged a
protest against the actions of her husband namely Altaf Mangi. The members of
the PTA Khairpur chapter staged a protest demonstration for the provision of
different facilities to the teachers.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1572

LENGTH: 386  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club on
Sunday. According to details, the activists of the Jamat-e-Islami district
Hyderabad under the leadership of Moulana Abdul Waheed Qureshi and others staged
a protest demonstration against the target killings taking place in Karachi. The
residents of Muslim Society Qasimabad under the leadership of Ahmed Ali, Ghulam
Qadir and others staged a protest demonstration against the atrocities of the
Qasimabad Police.

The residents of Latifabad Airport Area under the leadership of Khuda Bux,
Ghulam Rasool and others staged a protest demonstration against the influential
man for trying to occupy their houses. The people of Kolhi community, residents
of Hari Camp Sikandarabad Kotri under the leadership of Vishnu Kolhi, Devo Kolhi
and others staged a protest demonstration against influential landlord for not
giving remaining wages. A man namely Noman Ali, resident of Paradeabad Phuleli
staged a protest demonstration for the recovery of his missing son Farman Ali.
The members of the Green Rural Development Organization under the leadership of
Riaz Khokhar, Muhib Laghari and others staged a protest demonstration against
the influential landlord of Umerkot for not giving the remaining wages to the
labourers.

A woman namely Zaib-ul-Nisa Laghari, resident of Doctors' Line Hyderabad staged
a protest demonstration against her son Qurban Laghari for ejecting her from the
house. A man namely Abdul Ghafoor Brohi, resident of village Shafi Muhammad
Brohi Qasimabad staged a protest demonstration against the SSGC authorities. A
man namely Ahmed Ali Sehto, resident of Setharja district Khairpur Mir's staged
a protest demonstration against his brothers for not giving him share of his
family property. The members of Labours' Rights Movement district Jamshoro under
the leadership of Akbar Memon, Javed Jatoi and others staged a protest
demonstration for the provision of rights to the labourers. The residents of
Pathan Goth Qasimabad under the leadership of Sultan Lakho, Mashooq Lashari and
others staged a protest demonstration for the regularization of their village.
The former employees of SRTC under the leadership of Haji Ghulam Mohammad Depar
and others staged a protest demonstration for the provision of remaining
stipends.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Armenian opposition sit-in demands release of arrested activist - paper

LENGTH: 234 words


The youth branch of the opposition Armenian National Congress (ANC) and
non-partisan citizens held a sit-in protest in the Armenian capital Yerevan on 4
June demanding the release of an ANC activist, the pro-opposition Aravot daily
reported on 5 June. The Armenian police did not hinder the protest this time,
the paper said.

The protesters chanted "Davit, we are with you" during the two-hour sit-in
protest on Yerevan's central Liberty Square, Aravot said. Davit Kiramijyan, who
is accused of hooliganism, was detained on 31 May during an opposition protest
and was arrested for two months on 3 June. The police suppressed opposition
protests in Yerevan on 29-31 May.

The police did not disperse the protest on 4 June but told the protesters they
were violating public order when chanting slogans, Aravot reported. One of the
protesters, Patvakan Hovakimyan, told the paper they would be holding protests
on Liberty Square until Kiramijyan was released.

The protest was also attended by an ANC activist, Sargis Gevorgyan, and his
sister, Ani Gevorgyan, a journalist of the pro-opposition Haykakan Zhamanak
daily, who were detained during the 31 May opposition protest and released on 3
June. An ANC activists, Tigran Arakelyan, told Aravot that the protesters would
resume their traditional Friday marches which had not been held over the past
two months.

Source: Aravot, Yerevan, in Armenian 5 Jun 10, p 3

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday

Different protests staged outside the Sukkur Press Club

BYLINE:  Kamran Shaikh

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1529

LENGTH: 149  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Sukkur Press Club by
the people in favour of their demands on Saturday. According to details, the
residents of village Hoti namely Ghulam Mustafa Abro and Dadan Abro staged a
protest demonstration against the Chak Police for lodging cases against them on
the behest of influential men.

The people of Buriro community recorded a protest demonstration for arrests of
the notorious dacoits including Gulsher Jagirani and others. The people of
Chinjni community recorded a protest demonstration against the atrocities of
Saleh Patt Police. The people of different areas including Bunder road, Naun
Pind, Darzi Mohalla, Pathan Colony and others recorded protests against the
shortage of drinking water. The members of Jafferia Students Organization
Pakistan recorded a protest demonstration against Israel for taking allegedly
anti-Muslim steps.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              472 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

CM's Monitoring Team reviews digging work of Khirthar Canal

BYLINE:  Kamran Shaikh

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1493

LENGTH: 282  words


Sindh CM's Inspection Team under the leadership of Advisor to the CM Sindh
Pervez Ansari paid a visit to ongoing digging work of the Khirthar Canal at
Sukkur on Friday. The team members expressed their dissatisfaction over the
digging work.  While talking to newsmen, Advisor Pervez Ansari said that he will
lead a team of four members to pay visits to different districts of Sindh to
review the ongoing development works. The team members will submit a final
report about the works to the Chief Minister of Sindh Syed Qaim Ali Shah.

Different protests staged in Sukkur Different protest demonstrations were staged
by the local people in favor of their demands in Sukkur on Friday. According to
details, a protest demonstration was staged by candidates, who had come to
Sukkur from different districts for viva-voce for the posts of constable and
head constable in the Anti-Encroachment Force against the concerned authorities
for facilitating their favorites in the interviews. During the protest, ten
candidates fell unconscious, who were shifted to different local hospitals. The
lawyers of Sukkur boycotted the court proceedings and staged a protest
demonstration against the killings of the lawyers in Karachi on 9th April. The
activists of the Jeay Sindh Qaumi Mahaz (JSQM) staged a protest demonstration
for the arrest of the murderers of their party leader Irfan Baloch. The workers
of the Jeay Sindh Students Federation (JSSF) staged a protest demonstration
against registration of cases against Bashir Khan Qureshi. The people of the
Ghanghro community staged a protest demonstration for the arrest of the accused
men involved in torching a poultry farm of Muhammad Ali Ghanghro.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             April 23, 2007 Monday

OPP TO PROTEST OUTSIDE SC DURING CJ'S HEARING TODAY

LENGTH: 199 words


ISLAMABAD: Opposition Members of National Assembly (NA) will again stage protest
demonstration outside Supreme Court on the occasion of Presidential Hearing of
Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on Tuesday (today). On account of
starting of NA session, all the Members of opposition Parties have been directed
to participate in protest demonstration outside the Supreme Court.

On the other hand, Members of PML (N) MMA, PPP and others have arrived in
Federal Capital to participate in protest demo. The leadership of the opposition
Parties have directed the members to strongly protest during the hearing on
Tuesday. It is expected that Opposition's protest demonstration will be quite
big as they will once again be ably supported with Lawyers Community.  MMA's
President Qazi Hussain Ahmed will lead the protest demonstration with the able
support of other opposition leaders including Imran Khan, Chaudhry Nisar Ali
Khan, Khawaja Saad Rafiq, PPPP's Raja Pervez Ashraf, Khurshid Shah and others
outside Supreme Court under amid security conditions. Meanwhile Interior
Ministry has directed Police and Law Enforcement Agencies to be on a high alert
in view, to avoid any untoward incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Domestic Politics; Judicial Branch; Law Enforcement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2007 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                      March 28, 2003 Friday Final Edition

Violent Protest

SOURCE: The Gazette

SECTION: Editorial / Op-ed; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 177 words

Until last Saturday's peace protest, we were very proud to be part of one of the
communities that joined together to promote peace worldwide. However, the more
we get informed, the more out of place we feel at the rallies.

We were in shock to see the American flag set afire at the protest and even more
so to hear the people around us cheering. Does the irony of this action being
committed at a peace protest strike only us? In which way does violence advance
the cause of peaceful protest?

Furthermore, when people hold an entire country accountable for the decisions of
an essentially unelected president, it makes all genuinely peaceful protesters
lose all credibility. Why should world leaders like George W. Bush and Tony
Blair care what we think if in the process of getting our message across we use
the same methods we are denouncing: violence.

We were also disturbed to see fellow protesters bearing anti-Israeli posters.
Has peace become an idea that people like to believe in but fail to act upon?

Kate Searle

Elsa Kelly-Rheaume

Montreal

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters light U.S. flag.

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                                February 2, 2003

Crowd held for meter protest

BYLINE: Isaac Mahlangu

SECTION: Social Issues; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 60 words


Crowd held for meter protest

ABOUT 22 people, mainly youths, were arrested and later released on bail after
they allegedly blocked roads with rocks in a protest against the installation of
water meters in Siyabuswa, Mpumalanga, last weekend.

They were charged with public violence and will appear in a local magistrate's
court on March 12.

-



LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                       Copyright 2003 Times Media Limited


                              476 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

News in brief

BYLINE: David Rudge Gil Hoffman Ap Margot Dudkevitch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 648 words


Israeli Arab leaders protest policy on Palestinians

Arab MKs and several local council heads staged a protest rally opposite the
Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem yesterday against what they described as
the aggressive and destructive policies of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's
government regarding the Palestinians.

The demonstrators held placards and banners with slogans charging "Occupation is
Terror and calling for an end to the massacre of the Palestinian people and
their leaders."

"We stressed that there cannot be real peace stability and security without the
establishment of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel which would
have its capital in Jerusalem said Abed Inbitawi, spokesman for the Israeli Arab
leadership's monitoring committee, the rally's organizers. David Rudge

Israeli Arab leaders protest policy on Palestinians

Arab MKs and several local council heads staged a protest rally opposite the
Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem yesterday against what they described as
the aggressive and destructive policies of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's
government regarding the Palestinians.

The demonstrators held placards and banners with slogans charging Occupation is
Terror and calling for an end to the massacre of the Palestinian people and
their leaders."

"We stressed that there cannot be real peace stability and security without the
establishment of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel which would
have its capital in Jerusalem said Abed Inbitawi, spokesman for the Israeli Arab
leadership's monitoring committee, the rally's organizers. David Rudge

Anti-Sharon meeting in Likud tonight

Several groups in the Likud that oppose Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's policies
will meet tonight at Likud headquarters to decide how to coordinate their
efforts.

The Likud activists will declare officially that they have enough signatures to
convene the Likud Central Committee to discuss Sharon's statements supporting
the establishment of a Palestinian state.

Internal Security Minister Uzi Landau will convene the Likud bureau Thursday to
discuss whether the pro- Palestinian state comments violate the Likud
platform.Gil Hoffman

Mubarak echoes bin Laden

CAIRO (AP) - Terrorism will end only after a peaceful solution to the
Palestinian problem is found, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said yesterday.

Mubarak, in a speech to Muslim clerics broadcast live on state television, also
said Palestinians fighting Israel could not be called terrorist and declared
Islam a religion of peace.

We must not couple violence with Islam and I don't see any connection between
violence and Islam Mubarak said to a room full of clerics wearing the long gray
coats and red-and-white turbans of graduates of Al-Azhar University, one of the
most respected institutions in the Sunni Muslim world.

The situation in the Middle East is something else he continued. People have
reached a state of frustration and feeling of injustice which leads to more
violence between the Palestinians and the Israelis."

Shooting last night after quiet day

There were a number of violent incidents in the West Bank and Gaza last night
following a day of calm.

An Israeli citizen was lightly injured from stones thrown at his car near Yakir
in the early evening. He was treated at the site and did not require
hospitalization. Late yesterday afternoon and last night Palestinians shot a
number of times at soldiers deployed on the western outskirts of Kalkilya. A
bomb exploded near an IDF convoy travelling near Sanur south of Jenin. No one
was injured and no damage reported.

In Gaza three mortar shells were fired last night one landing near an IDF base
in Gush Katif and two in the community of Kfar Darom. Palestinians also threw
grenades at soldiers deployed near Rafah. Margot Dudkevitch

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 The Jerusalem Post


                              477 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday

Nepal arrests UK citizen over alleged participation in anti-government protest

LENGTH: 293 words


Text of report published by Nepalese newspaper Kathmandu Post website on 16 May

Nepal Police on Monday [16 May] arrested a British national for 'participating'
in a protest programme carried out by Madeshi and Janajati.

Martin Travers, 44, a British passport holder, was arrested on Monday afternoon
during a protest outside Singha Durbar, Kathmandu, while he was partcipating in
the protest, according to police.

But Martin refuted the police version. He told the post that he was merely
taking pictures of the protest when somebody came up from behind and put a
protest band on his forehead. He insisted that he was not part of the protest.

The arrest comes a day after reports and pictures of foreigners taking part in
the anti-government protest by Madhesi and Janjati groups splashed the media. He
is a mural painter and paints people's faces, his aides said after the arrest.

Chief District Officer of Kathmandu District, Ram Krishna Saubedi, confirmed the
arrest of British national who, he said, showed up among protestors carrying
flags and donning red band in his forehead during Sunday's protest.

Martin, a mural painter, held an exhibition titled 'Of Struggles and Dreams -
Homage to the People Of Nepal' in Siddhartha Art Gallery in August 2015. The
exhibition was inaugurated by British ambassador John Rankin. He was also an
artist with Book Bus, a USAID mobile library in Nepal.

He sold his paintings to support art workshop in various schools in the country,
including Kanti Ishwari School, Pyafal and Jagat Sundar, Chagall.

Martin, 44, who had actively involved in relief distribution in Rasuwa, came
back to Nepal on the anniversary of earthquake to continue his relief programme.

Source: The Kathmandu Post website, Kathmandu, in English 16 May 16

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Kashmir Observer

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

Protests After Friday Prayers

LENGTH: 351  words


SRINAGAR: Protest marches  were taken out in different parts of Kashmir Valley
after Friday  prayers against the detention of separatist leader Masarat Alam.

Chairman  of Hurriyat Conference (G) Syed Ali Geelani had Thursday called for
peaceful protest after Friday prayers against the detention of Alam  under the
Public Safety Act (PSA) and his shifting to Kotbalwal jail  Jammu.

Reports said that soon after Friday prayers scores of  people protested in
different parts of Srinagar city including  Habakadal, Hyderpora, Amira Kadal.
Muslim League supporters staged a  protest amid pro-freedom slogans in Haba
Kadal area. The protest was led  by Muslim League spokesperson Muhammad Rafiq
Ganaie. Peaceful protest  was also held at Amira Kadal and Hyderpora after
Friday prayers. Scores  of youth pelted stones on police and CRPF personnel at
Gojwara and  Nowhata, however police exercised maximum restraint and did not use
any  force to disperse the protesters. Traffic was disrupted while  shopkeepers
downed their shutters after stone-hurling incidents.

In  North Kashmir's Anantnag town, protest was held at Sherbagh while in
Pulwama a large number of people staged a peaceful protest against the
detention of Masrat Aalam. Peaceful protest was also held at Qaimou  Kulgam.

Protesters resorted to stone-pelting in South Kashmir's  Tral town where a large
number of people took to streets against the  detention of Muslim League leader
Masrat Aalam. Police used tear-smoke  shells to disperse the angry protesters.
The clashes according to  eyewinesses continued for hours.

Stone-pelting incidents were  also reported from Sopore and Narbal area's of
North and Central  Kashmir. Separatist leader Nayeem Ahmed Khan addressed a
gathering in  Narbal where protesters unfurled Pakistani flags and clashed with
police  and CRPF. Green flags were also unfurled during a peacful rally that
was addressed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq at Imambarah Budgam.

A  police official told CNS that the situation all across Kashmir Valley
remained peaceful and no major incident of violence was reported from  any part
of Valley.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2015 Kashmir Observer, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Protest called off in simara

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: BARA


BARA, Feb. 25 -- The protests against the government's move to roll back its
decision to set up units of land revenue and survey offices in Simara was called
off on Tuesday.

After 10-day agitation, life in the area gradually returned to normalcy, with
the resumption of transport service, reopening of market places and educational
institutions.

Simara Malpot Sthapana Sarokar Samiti, a committee that led the agitation, said
in a statement that it decided to call off the protest after the authorities
expressed commitment to address its demands. The committee had demanded
treatment for the victims who sustained injuries during the protest, provide
compensation and immediate release of those arrested during demonstrations.

However, the UCPN (Maoist) expressed dissatisfaction over the decision to call
off the protest. "The ruling parties have politicised the movement of the local
people. It is an all-party protest. So the announcement of some parties to
postpone the protest is meaningless," said Ajurna Chimoriya, who represents the
Maoists in the committee.

Local people, business community and party activists are up in arms against the
Cabinet decision.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

JUI-F to organize protest rallies against attacks on its chief

LENGTH: 245  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Central Majlis e Shoora of Jamiat
Ulema-e-Islam Fazl on Wednesday decided to organize rallies across
the country from Dec 5, to protest against suicide attack on its
chief Maulana Fazl-ur-Rehman last month.


      Addressing a press conference, Secretary General JUI-F Maulana
Abdul Ghafoor Haideri said Majlis-e-Shoora has approved a series of
protest rallies from Dec 5 in four provincial capitals.
      While giving detail of protest schedule, he informed that on
Dec 9 protest rallies would be organized on district level, January
2 on Tehsil level, Jan 16 and 30 countrywide and on February 27
protest rally would be organized in Islamabad.
      He said that this is our constitutional right to register
protest against violence on our party workers and suicide attacks on
our party leadership including JUI-F Chief Maulana Fazl ur Rehman.
      He said that the whole family of Maulana Fazlur Rehman was
being targetted by the unknown elements. In last few months it was
third attack on Maulana followed by attacks on his brother, son and
his house.
      Expressing dissatisfaction on investigations of attacks, he
said his party wants to know real facts and motives behind attack on
Maulana and family.
      He said Balochistan government did not inform the party about
any progress in investigations of Quetta suicide attack on Maulana.
      JUI-F leaders including Maulana Amjad Khan, Malik Sikandar,
Aslam Ghauri, Qari Usman, Haji Qayyum and others were also present
on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Protests against Israeli air-strikes on Gaza to be held across Maldives

LENGTH: 261 words


Text of report by Abdul Latheef headlined "Maldivians to protest against Israeli
aggression in Palestine" published by Maldivian daily Miadhu website on 15

The organizers of the protest, to be held in Maldives, against the Israeli
aggression in Palestine have stated that the protest will be held tonight.

The protest will begin at 9:30 [local time] tonight near the Social Center. It
is scheduled to be a march which will conclude all the way from the main
Majeedhee Magu to Ameenee Magu and Boduthakurufaanu Magu near Stadium.

A special supplication will be made near the Stadium. In addition to this
information will be shared regarding the events of Gaza and Palestine.

Similar protests will be held in Addu City and other islands.

Although this event is organized by some of the youth, political parties have
also expressed their support for the protest and announced their participation.

Maldivians has always been in solidarity with the Palestinians. Maldivians
empathize with the suffering that our Palestinian brothers and sisters are
enduring during the holy month of Ramadan.

Maldives has also called for an immediate cease-fire in the conflict in Gaza.

The Government of Maldives has earlier expresses alarm at the rising death toll
in Gaza, and the possible escalation, and reiterates its call to bring an
immediate cease to the violence. The Maldives believes that it is only through
negotiations that a conducive environment could be created where both Palestine
and Israel could live side by side in peace.

Source: Miadhu News website, Male, in English 15 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            November 8, 2013 Friday

DPC protest demos against drone strikes today

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 251

LENGTH: 125  words


Difa-e-Pakistan Council (DPC) will observe protest day against the drone attacks
across the country on Friday (today).

The DPC will hold protest demonstrations and rallies at Lahore, Gujranwala,
Faisalabad, Islamabad, Peshawar, Multan, Karachi, Hyderabad, Quetta and other
cities.

Leaders of different parties of DPC will address the protest demonstrations.

In the provincial capital, DPC will hold major show in front of Lahore Press
Club, which will be addressed by Ameer Jamat ud Dawa, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed and
DPC leaders. Protest rallies will be taken out from Markaz Ummulqura GT Road to
Rail Bazaar Taxi Stand at Gujranwala and Faisalabad Press Club to Chowk Ghanta
Ghar Faisalabad.

A protest demonstration will be held outside Karachi Press Club.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                October 28, 2013

CM hopes clean sweep in Indore dist

BYLINE: OUR STAFF REPORTER

LENGTH: 578  words


Faces protests at three places

Indore: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan is eyeing for all the nine seats in
Indore district and even demanding people to elect BJP candidate. But the
protestors at three places have made it clear that if the CM wants his wish to
be fulfilled, then he shall honour the sentiments of the people as well.

The Jan Ashirwad atra faced protests basically at three places - Sanwer, Indore-
I and Indore- IV constituencies. The atra entered the district through Sanver
though a few hours late. The protests began from here itself when the people
localites expressed their protest against the outside candidate in this
constituency.

It is noteworthy that BJP had lost Sanver seat in the last assembly elections as
well. The outside candidates who are probable for getting the ticket include
Rajesh Sonkar, Sawan Sonkar and Nisha Sonkar, none of whom are natives of
Sanver. The local people are demanding for a native candidate in the
constituency.

Sources claimed that MP Sumitra Mahajan is playing behind the scenes by inciting
the protest against the outside candidate as she has a local candidate whom she
is supporting. Thus, through the protests, she is pushing for her own candidate.
Placards were shown to the CM in the protests.

The atra further faced protests in Indore- I, but this time, the intensity was
far higher since it was about Sudarshan Gupta. It seemed as if people just hate
sitting MLA Sudarshan Gupta. It looks for now as if he is definite to get the
ticket, however, protests and discontent has increased against him and it was
clearly evident with mass protest during the CM's visit. It is claimed that
sitting MLA Ramesh Mendola ( Indore II) is playing behind the scenes and
extending his support to the protestors. As the atra moved toward assembly
constituency Indore- IV, Sindhi Colony residents

residents expressed its ire against the nepotism being shown by giving tickets
only to the Gaur clan and nobody else is being even considered. The increasing
dissatisfaction among public over the muscle power dominance in the region has
become a cause of concern for the politicians in the assembly elections. It is
claimed that BJP city president Shankar Lalwani is playing behind the scenes in
this constituency and is extending his support to the protestors.

Yatra arrives late

Chief Miniser Shivraj Singh Chauhan reached district Indore a few hours behind
the schedule. He was expected to reach in Sanwer at around 11 am on Sunday. He
reached here around 1.30 PM. Then he moved to city via Chandragupt Maurya statue
junction. Here he addressed a gathering form his Rath ( special open vehicle)
itself. From here, he moved toward Pardeshipura via Sawaria Sweets, Khatipura
village, Gori Nagar and Damaru Ustaad Chauraha. At Pardeshipura he held a "
Nukkad Sabha" and stayed in his open vehicle for addressing the audience.

Further, he moved to Malwa Mill in constituency- V via Atal Dwar, Nehru Nagar
and Pancham Ki Phel. At Malwa Mills, he addressed the people. Then, he proceeded
to Imali Bazaar Chauraha in constituency- III via Chimanbaag, Khatipura chuaraha
and Sanskrit College. Then he moved toward Bada Ganpati in constituency- I via
Badwali Chauki, Shastri Colony and Jinsi Chauraha where he addressed a public
gathering. Chauhan's rath then moved toward constituency- IV at Mhownaka, via
Lohar Patti, Malganj Chauraha and Chhatripura Thana. He concluded his atra in
constituency Rau at Vaishali Nagar ( Dutt Mandir).

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday

Govt deaf to peaceful protests: Kakre Bihar protestors

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Aug. 29 -- The Kakre Bihar Joint Struggle Committee, which is up in
arms demanding permission to build a Buddha shrine in Kakre Bihar in Surkhet,
organised a broader rally and corner meeting in the Capital on Thursday.

The agitating Buddhist community and various religious and ethnic organisations
gathered at Basantapur for the rally that marched through New Road, Jamal,
Ratnapark, Bagbazaar, Putalisadak, Padmodayamod before converging into a corner
meeting at exhibition road.

Addressing the assembly, President of Nepal Federation of Indigenous
Nationalities (NEFIN), Nagendra Kumar Kumal, despised the government for being
apathetic towards the Kakre Bihar issue. He accused the government of ignoring
their peaceful protests and said they would announce the fourth phase of their
protests. "The fourth phase of our protests would be intense and coercive.

The struggle committee's third phase of protests ended on Thursday.

More intense protests are on the cards bound to happen shortly said the Vice
Chairman of Buddhist Community Yukten Zigdol said they are unveiling more
intense protest programmes.

He added that the increasing turnout of attendants indicates the public support
for the cause. "The government didn't take note of the peaceful rally, hence
forth our protests will be more intense which must fall into the authority's
ear," said Zigdol.

The Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities (Nefin), in association with
the Buddhist community, announced the third round of protests on August 18 to
press for their demand.

The Kakre Bihar Joint Struggle Committee have been holding continuous protests
since early May.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday

JCC announces fresh protest calendar

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, June 29 -- Joint Consultative Committee (JCC), an amalgam of several
employees unions Friday announced a fresh protest calendar by calling
Secretariat ghero on July-8 and lock-out of government offices on the same day
across the state.

The leaders of JCC held a meeting on Thursday, in which they decide that they
would hold protest demonstrations on July-8 outside the Civil Secretariat
Srinagar. However, they announced fresh protest calendar at a press conference
here on Friday.

While as, in a significant development, the Civil Secretariat Non-Gazetted
Employees Union extended its support to the JCC programme. The Civil Secretariat
Non-Gazetted Employees Union had not participated in the previous protest
programmes of JCC. However, its leaders said they would give full support to JCC
and will hold protest demonstration inside the premises of Civil Secretariat on
July-8.

"On July-8, employees will hold protest outside Civil Secretariat while as
non-gazetted employees of Civil Secretariat will hold inside its premises. The
employees of Jammu will hold protest outside office of Divisional Commissioner
Jammu and will also submit memorandum to him," the JCC leaders said at a press
conference here.

They said employees of Leh and Kargil would hold protest outside District
Development Commissioners of their respective districts.Those who participated
in the press conference included senior JCC leaders, Abdul Qayoom Wani, Muntizer
Mohideen, Gafoor Ahmad Dar.

The JCC leaders said there would be complete shutdown of government offices
across the Valley on this date.The government employees are demanding
enhancement of retirement age from 58 to 60 years, removal of pay anomalies and
regularization of daily wagers.

Earlier, the employees Rajbhavan chalo was foiled on June-22.

Employees said they had negotiated with the government and gave them time which
they asked for. "Even agreements were signed between the government and
employees' leadership but so far they backtracked from their commitments," the
JCC leaders claimed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 2, 2013 Wednesday 8:34 PM GMT

Road blocked amid new flags protest

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 159 words


Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

Up to 300 loyalists have blocked roads in Carrickfergus as part of a protest
over flags, police have said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 481

LENGTH: 230  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to details, a
woman namely Khanzadi, resident of Kisana Mori staged a protest demonstration
against the occupation of her agricultural land. The residents of Matiari
including Dost Ali Machi and others protested against actions of their
influential men of their area.

The activists of the Peoples' Labour Union led by Riaz Akhtar Awan, Rizwan
Mallah and others recorded a protest demonstration in favour of the SSGC
employees' demands. The members of the All Pakistan Lady Health Workers'
Association staged a protest demonstration against the killing of their
colleagues in Karachi, Quetta and Peshawar. The leaders including Rukhsana
Mughal, Safina Laghari and others demanded of the government to ensure arrest of
the accused elements in these incidents.

A man namely Umed Ali Buriro, resident of village Khan Buriro Khairpur recorded
a protest demonstration for the removal of his agricultural land's occupation.
The members of the Pakistan WAPDA Hydroelectric Central Labour Union took out a
protest rally in favour of their demands. The rally was led Abdul Latif Nizamani
and others. The heirs of Late Amanullah Brohi, resident of Moro including Gul
Taj Bibi, Naina Brohi and others observed a hunger strike for arrest of his
murderers.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Pro-Altaf protests, rallies held in Karachi, other cities of Sindh

LENGTH: 144  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Peaceful protests were staged across Karachi and other cities of Sindh on
Saturday to express solidarity with MQM chief Altaf Hussain.

The protests were held a day after the Supreme Court issued a contempt notice to
Altaf Hussain for his criticism of judges.

A large number of people attended the protests.

Residents of Shah Faisal Colony took to the streets and held a peaceful protest
in favour of Altaf Hussain.

Similarly, protests were staged in Gulshan-e-Iqbal, Nipa Chowrangi and
Liaquatabad, attended by large numbers of women and children.

Demonstrators said that they would stand by MQM chief.

Later, all rallies culminated peacefully.

Apart from Karachi, protests were held in different cities of Sindh.

Unknown persons set tires on fire and staged sits-in in Hyderabad, Mirpur Khas,
Nawabshah and Sukkur.

In Hyderabad, protest demonstrations were held in Hyder Chowk

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              May 28, 2012 Monday

We have the right to loud protests

SECTION: YOUNGPOST; Star letter; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 300 words


Many people in Hong Kong say rowdy public protests are ineffective and cause
danger and disturbance to the public. They say protesters should be polite.

That argument has merit. Yet we live in a world where making a public scene
draws attention. This is a world of the media. If the media doesn't take notice,
some issues may never get the publicity they deserve. If you want your voice to
be heard, shouting loudly may be the only option.

In any event, protests in Hong Kong are rarely violent. Look at Europe.
Protesters there burn cars, smash windows, and even loot stores at times.

Here people only use their voice to protest. There's little damage to public
property. Fights with police officers rarely happen. Most protests in Hong Kong
are quite creative and peaceful. Even if you are unhappy with the protests in
Hong Kong, you should still think twice before pointing the finger at
protesters.

Alex Siu, SKH Lam Kau Mow Secondary School

From the Editor

Thank you for your pointed and passionate letter, Alex. You make many good
points, which apply to protests all around the world.

Protests serve to bring people's attention to an issue. Locals do seem to be
able to carry them out with very little violence.

With Hong Kong being a very crowded city, any type of protest is bound to cause
disruption to someone. Also, if it is a big protest, people can be squeezed or
bruised in the process, and if they haven't brought enough water, they might
suffer dehydration.

For their part, the police are tasked with protecting property and people. They
cannot stand by and do nothing while protesters run wild, and so they tend to
act before things become bad.

It is a testament not only to the people of Hong Kong but also to our police
force that there haven't been more violent protests.

Susan, Editor

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              May 28, 2012 Monday

We have the right to loud protests

SECTION: YOUNGPOST; Star letter; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 300 words


Many people in Hong Kong say rowdy public protests are ineffective and cause
danger and disturbance to the public. They say protesters should be polite.

That argument has merit. Yet we live in a world where making a public scene
draws attention. This is a world of the media. If the media doesn't take notice,
some issues may never get the publicity they deserve. If you want your voice to
be heard, shouting loudly may be the only option.

In any event, protests in Hong Kong are rarely violent. Look at Europe.
Protesters there burn cars, smash windows, and even loot stores at times.

Here people only use their voice to protest. There's little damage to public
property. Fights with police officers rarely happen. Most protests in Hong Kong
are quite creative and peaceful. Even if you are unhappy with the protests in
Hong Kong, you should still think twice before pointing the finger at
protesters.

Alex Siu, SKH Lam Kau Mow Secondary School

From the Editor

Thank you for your pointed and passionate letter, Alex. You make many good
points, which apply to protests all around the world.

Protests serve to bring people's attention to an issue. Locals do seem to be
able to carry them out with very little violence.

With Hong Kong being a very crowded city, any type of protest is bound to cause
disruption to someone. Also, if it is a big protest, people can be squeezed or
bruised in the process, and if they haven't brought enough water, they might
suffer dehydration.

For their part, the police are tasked with protecting property and people. They
cannot stand by and do nothing while protesters run wild, and so they tend to
act before things become bad.

It is a testament not only to the people of Hong Kong but also to our police
force that there haven't been more violent protests.

Susan, Editor

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 172 words

SAUDI ARABIA

Protests started March 10

King Abdullah's continuing popularity has contributed to relative calm, as
protests by Shiites and women's rights advocates have failed to gain a foothold.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

STABLE

SYRIA

Protests started Feb. 4

At least 5,000 people have died in the months of protests against President
Bashar al-Assad. Although President Obama and other world leaders have called
for Assad to step down, there has been no indication that foreign governments
might intervene in the conflict.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

TEETERING

TUNISIA

Protests started Dec. 17, 2010

With elections in October, Tunisia has moved quickly toward democracy after the
sustained protests that led to the ouster of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali
in January and ignited the broader upheaval.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

TOPPLED

YEMEN

Protests started Jan. 22

President Ali Abdullah Saleh has pledged to step down, ending his 33-year-long
rule, but the timing and pace of any change remain in doubt.

GOVERNMENTSTATUS

TEETERING

BY BILL WEBSTER AND JON WILE/THE WASHINGTONPOST

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

Different protests staged in Jacobabad

BYLINE:  Muhammad Ali Surhio

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 363

LENGTH: 161  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
in Jacobabad on Tuesday. According to details, the activists of the Pakistan
People's Party (PPP) Jacobabad Chapter staged a protest demonstration against
the Chief Minister of Punjab for using informal language against the President
of Pakistan Mr Asif Ali Zardari. The protest was led by Deedar Jakhrani and Ali
Gilwani.  Addressing on the occasion, the leaders condemned the PML-N leaders
for hatching conspiracies against the democratic government.

Meanwhile, a protest rally was taken out by the WAPA Hydro Electric Labourers'
Union against the privatization of their department and leasing of the power
houses to private companies. Addressing on the occasion, the leaders including
Haji Abdul Rasheed Abbasi, Lala Abrar Osto, Babu Hanif Lashari, Nasir Ansari,
Nisar Daudpoto and others demanded of the government to review its policies and
not to privatize the government institutes.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                   Globes [online] - Israel's Business Arena

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Students step up housing price protests;
Jerusalem tent protesters will hold a protest march this evening to the Kfar
David luxury neighborhood.

BYLINE: Ori Chudy

LENGTH: 153 words


Following yesterday's promise to intensify the struggle, students today
announced that the Jerusalem tent protesters will hold a protest march this
evening to the Kfar David luxury neighborhood. Protesters in the Jerusalem
encampment have received support from the leader of another recent protest -
Yitzhak Alrov, who led the cottage cheese protest just a few weeks ago and
received tremendous public support.

Student protests in northern Israel are also expected to intensify, as
representatives of the Tel-Hai College Student Union plan to block traffic at
the Sinai intersection in Kiryat Shmona.

The National Student Union reported that this is only a first step in the
intensification of the struggle, and that they intend to follow up soon with
additional measures.

Published by Globes [online], Israel business news - www.globes-online.com - on
July 20, 2011

© Copyright of Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd. 2011

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Globes Publisher Itonut (1983) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 25, 2011 Friday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. IV No. 115

LENGTH: 348  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Thursday.  According to details, the
members of the Sindh Animal Husbandry Ministerial Employees Association under
the leadership of Muhammad Jameel Baloch and others staged a protest
demonstration against the illegal appointments and corruption in their
department. The members of the Public Peace Welfare Organization under the
leadership of Nawab Soomro, Hajan Bhatti and others staged a protest
demonstration against the SHO PS Badlia for his failure in controlling the law
and order situation. A man namely Muhammad Yaseen along with his family members,
residents of Matli staged a protest demonstration against an influential
landlord for ejecting them. The people of the Khoso Community, residents of
Tharparkar under the leadership of Zulekhan Khoso and others staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of their community man Jalal Khoso. The members
of the Peoples Labour Bureau Sindh University Jamshoro Chapter under the
leadership of Ghulam Hussain Joyo others staged a protest demonstration for the
acceptance of their demands. The members of Save Forest Action Committee Khipro
under the leadership of Hussain Mari, Daim Ali others staged a protest
demonstration in favour of their demands. The members of Pukar Welfare
Association Tando Adam under the leadership of Sultan Khaskheli and others
staged a protest demonstration against the administration of Power looms
factories Tando Adam.

A flood affected woman namely Bilqees along with her 3 disable daughters
including Rasheeda, Aneela and Sameena staged a protest demonstration against
the non provision of Watan Card and other facilities. The members of Flood
Affectees Rehabilitation Movement Sindh under the leadership of Ali Gohar
Chandio and others staged a protest demonstration for the rehabilitation of IDPs
of Sindh. The members of Hyderabad Action Committee under the leadership of
Ashraf Noonari, Akhtar Sindhi and others continued their protest demonstration
against Habib Group Farms.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                            February 21, 2011 Monday
                                   E2 Edition

'Jasmine Revolution'| calls worry China

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 355 words


BEIJING: Jittery Chinese authorities staged a show of force yesterday to squelch
a mysterious online call for a "Jasmine Revolution" apparently modelled after
pro-democracy demonstrations sweeping the Middle East.

Authorities detained activists, increased the number of police on the streets
and censored online calls to stage protests in Beijing, Shanghai and 11 other
major cities. Citizens were urged to shout "We want food, we want work, we want
housing, we want fairness" - a slogan that highlights common complaints among
ordinary Chinese.

Many activists said they did not know who was behind the campaign and were not
sure what to make of the call to protest, which was first posted on the US-based
Chinese-language advocacy website Boxun.com.

China's authoritarian government has appeared unnerved by recent protests in
Egypt, Tunisia, Bahrain, Yemen, Algeria and Libya. It has limited media reports
about them, stressing the instability caused by protests in Egypt, and
restricted internet searches to keep people uninformed.

The call to protest in China did not seem to garner much appeal among citizens.
In Beijing, 25-year-old Liu Xiaobai was stopped by police after he placed a
white jasmine flower in front of a McDonald's restaurant that was the planned
protest site and took some pictures with his cellphone.

Ahead of the planned protests, more than 100 activists in cities across China
were taken away by police, confined to their homes or were missing, the Hong
Kong-based group Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy said.

Yesterday, searches for "jasmine" were blocked on China's largest Twitter-like
microblog, and status updates with the word on popular Chinese social networking
site Renren.com were met with an error message.

The call for a Jasmine Revolution came as President Hu Jintao gave a speech to
top leaders on Saturday, asking them to "solve prominent problems which might
harm the harmony and stability of the society".

Hu told the senior politicians and officials to improve management of
information on the internet "to guide public opinion", the official Xinhua News
Agency reported. - Sapa-AP

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday

Different protest demonstration staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1469

LENGTH: 392  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged outside the Hyderabad press club on
Tuesday. According to details, the PPP workers of district Thatta including
Imran Memon, Majeed Kumbhar and others staged a protest against the local party
leadership for neglecting them. They demanded of the party leadership to take
immediate notice of the matter.

The members of the All Pakistan Clerks Association Hyderabad chapter under the
leadership of Ashraf Bozai and others staged a protest in favour of their
demands. Former employees of the SRTC under the leadership of Haji Ghulam
Muhammad Depar and others staged a protest for issuance of their withheld
stipends. A man namely Tariq Pathan, resident of New Saeedabad district Matiari
staged a protest against the occupation of his agricultural land.

A man namely Mohammad Juman Budhani, resident of Hyderabad staged a protest
against an influential landlord. A woman namely Safina, resident of Sikandarabad
Colony Kotri district Jamshoro along with her family members staged a protest
for the recovery of her kidnapped daughter Rozina. The activists of the Pakistan
People's Party Tando Jam chapter under the leadership of Altaf Hussain Unar and
others staged a protest against local PPP leadership for neglecting them.

A widow namely Malookan, resident of Village Mori Mangar district Hyderabad
along with her daughters staged protest for the removal of occupation of her
agricultural land. A professor of the Agriculture University Tando Jam namely
Dhani Bux staged a protest for the reinstatement of services of his son namely
Dr Wahid Bux Chandio. The Vice President of the Peoples Youth District
Tharparkar, Comrade Yousif Kumbhar observed a token hunger strike against the
PPP leadership of Naunkot.

The candidates, who had passed a written test for the posts of PST, staged a
protest demonstration for issuance of posting orders. Dozens of people of the
Palari Community under the leadership of Gul Palari, Yousif Palari and others,
residents of Village Ali Nawaz Palari near Isra University Hyderabad while
recording their protest demanded action against a member of the District Bar
Association, Noor-ul-Haq Qureshi. The villagers accused the DBA member of
attempting to occupy their village. They said that the police have also arrested
eight villagers on the behest of the abovementioned DBA member.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Mass protest to hit Sydney

BYLINE: KARA LAWRENCE, JOE HILDEBRAND, SYDNEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 355  words


A WEEK of mayhem, involving every major protest group in the city, will cause
mass disruption to Sydney at next month's APEC summit.

Revelations of radical plans came yesterday as police issued a warning to
parents they could not guarantee the safety of their children caught up in the
protests.

APEC organisers are bracing for protests from radical groups, which are
recruiting high school students to take part.

The groups, which aim to clog up Sydney for 11 days leading up to and including
the summit, include radical protest groups Resistance and the Socialist
Alliance.

Also planning protests are the Maritime Union of Australia, Amnesty
International, the Greens, Vietnamese and Chinese groups and Critical Mass with
its monthly bike ride.

Friday, September 7 and Saturday, September 8, the peak of APEC leaders' week,
have emerged as the most popular for radical protest groups.

On the Saturday, at least 15,000 protesters are expected to clog the heart of
Sydney. The biggest protest, at 10am, is expected to be the 10,000strong Stop
Bush Stop Howard rally and march from Sydney Town Hall to Hyde Park North.

Hundreds of students from at least five Sydney high schools are expected to walk
out of school in a student strike at 1pm on Wednesday, September 5, for a
Belmore Park protest. Resistance organiser Simon Cunich yesterday said hundreds,
possibly thousands, of students were expected to take part.

He said Resistance had visited 20 Sydney private and public high schools to
recruit students.

Mr Cunich insisted the protest, involving children from Year 9 up, would be
peaceful. ''We've called a peaceful protest and we're not looking for a
confrontation. We'd call on police not to use violence in the protests,'' he
said.

Assistant Commissioner Dave Owens, who is heading the police APEC response, said
school students who attended protests put themselves at risk. ''These kids might
get caught up in a violent protest but as police we cannot guarantee their
safety if they do,'' he said.

He said police were well-briefed on plans for a student walkout and said ''the
same rules apply to them as anyone else''.


PAGE 19: Issues

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 6, 2016 Wednesday

New Madhes protest to be Singha Durbar-centric: Mahato

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: BIRGUNJ


BIRGUNJ, April 6 -- The upcoming protests to be launched by Madhes-based parties
will be centered on picketing Singha Durbar in the Capital, according to
Sadbhawana Party (SP) Chair Rajendra Mahato.

Interacting with media in Birgunj on Wednesday, Mahato said the protests would
not be border-centric as their last protests only troubled the general people
while failing to pressurize the government.

The upcoming protests in mid-April would not affect people, according to him.

"Currently we're busy in the preparations for the upcoming protest programs,
which will be Singha Durbar-centric and affect the government much," he said.

Mahato clarified that the Madhes movement has neither had its miscarriage nor
has it ended; but its nature has changed.

The United Democratic Madhesi Front (UDMF) has recently decided about the new
modality of its protest.

"Despite UDMF's utmost flexibility, the government seems to have failed to
address the issue of Madhes," he said. "But the next round of protests will be
decisive in getting the Madhes issues resolved."

According to him, UDMF leaders are currently engaged in building the alliance's
strength through awareness campaign from Mechi to Mahakali.

He also criticized the government for terming the recent advice of European
Union as interference.

Mahato also claimed that all the constituents of UDMF stand together and that
there was no dispute among them.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              500 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday
                                Kolkata Edition

CAUTION CALL Voice of reason from Muslim thinkers

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 392 words


If it is protests, Bengal is never far behind. From chief minister Mamata
Banerjee to young poet Mandakranta Sen, luminaries from the state have joined
the outcry against rising intolerance in the country . But one such protest -a
public beef party organized by the Leftleaning Bhasha Chetana Samity at
Dharamtalla on Wednesday -triggered a backlash from Muslim academics and
intellectuals.

Professor Maqbool Islam, dean of student affairs at Kalyani University , said:
"I strongly

agree on the need to protest. But I do not support its form. Openly eating beef
cannot be a mode of protest."

Islam found support in Professor Amzed Hossain, Aliya University's English
department head. "This is less of a protest more of exhibitionism. It will do
more harm than good," he said. Quari Maulana Fazlur Rehman, the senior cleric
who leads the Red Road Eid namaz, felt, "This is akin to teasing. It is
important that we protest, make ourselves heard, but this can't be the manner."

Bhasha Chetana Samity , comprising artists, poets and civil society members, had
planned the protests to lend its voice against the

growing incidents of intolerance nation-wide.Samity secretary Emmanuel Haque
argues it will be a symbolic protest. "We have sent out invites to many people
to join this public beef eating. In our view, this requires the strongest
voice," he said. Haque says the protest is aimed at demolishing several myths
and falsehoods.

Academic Miratoon Nahar finds nothing wrong in protesting against intolerance.
"To protest is their right. But the question is whether such protests yield any
result. I declined the invite (for Friday's protest). I have my reasons," she
said. Faruque Ahamed editor-publisher of

'Udar Akash' -a peer reviewed research journal that takes up issues on
minorities -does not

support such a protest rally as "it might incite communal and religious
sentiments."

Maulana Rehman said, "Protests to me should be so that people feel for my cause.
I shouldn't end up antagonizing or alienating them. This is like teasing or
taunting people.What I eat is behind the closed doors of my home, what point
will I make by doing it openly?" Professor Islam said, "In the 19th century , in
the Young Bengal protests, radical Bengali free thinkers who were Brahmins ate
beef to prove their liberal beliefs. But this didn't find acceptance in
society."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              501 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 30, 2015 Monday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

BYLINE: Younis Chandio and Jani Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 806

LENGTH: 213  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.

According to details, the SSGC employees led by Mohammad Ali Shah, Abid Mirani,
Kashif Malik and others staged a protest demonstration for the provision of
different facilities to them. They also demanded of the concerned authorities to
issue their withheld salaries. The APCA members under the leadership of Ashraf
Bozai, Noor Mohammad Shaikh and others recorded a protest demonstration for the
provision of promotions and other facilities to the clerical staff in Sindh. The
activists of the Sindh National Party led by Akhtar Sindhi, Khadim Baloch and
others recorded a protest demonstration against the administration of a cotton
factory for sacking the laborers. On the occasion, they demanded of the
concerned authorities to reinstate the sacked employees, otherwise they have
threatened to accelerate their protest circle. The contract based employees of
the National Bank of Pakistan continued their protest demonstration for the
regularization of their services. The senior workers of the PML-N Hyderabad also
continued their protest demonstration against their local party leaders for
ignoring them in the provision of jobs and other facilities.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              502 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Azeri pressure group holds protest outside UN office

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency APA

Baku, 26 November: The Karabakh Liberation Organization (KLO) has held a protest
outside the Azerbaijan representative office of the UN  [in Baku] over
[Azerbaijani citizens] Sahbaz Quliyev and Dilqam Asgarov, who were taken captive
by Armenian troops in Kalbacar District [in July 2014].

In addition to the KLO members, Asgarov and Quliyev's family members and
relatives attended the protest.

Police thwarted the protest, which started in the form of a march from Martyrs'
Avenue. Only four protesters were allowed access to the [protest] site outside
the representative office.

The protest aimed to draw attention to the indifferent approach displayed by the
UN and other international organizations to the fate of our captive citizens.
The protesters chanted slogans "Down with the UN", "Down with the [OSCE] Minsk
Group" and others.

In the end, the protesters presented a statement to the UN Baku office.

[BBCM note: Azerbaijani citizens Dilqam Asgarov (Dilgam Asgarov) and Sahbaz
Quliyev (Shahbaz Guliyev) are charged with murder and espionage. The two are
natives of the Armenian-controlled Kalbacar District of Azerbaijan and were
detained by the separatist authorities in that district on 10 and 14 July 2014
respectively. Yerevan described them as "saboteurs", while Baku said they were
civilians.

Baku and Yerevan are locked in a conflict over Azerbaijan's Nagornyy Karabakh
region, which along with seven surrounding districts came under the control of
ethnic Armenian forces in the early 1990s. The OSCE Minsk Group, co-chaired by
Russia, France, and the United States, mediates between Azerbaijan and Armenia
to hammer out a peaceful solution to the conflict.]

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 0843 gmt 26 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              503 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                Al-Ahram Weekly

                                  May 8, 2014

Protests continue

LENGTH: 773  words


Worsening economic conditions led to a series of protests and industrial actions
in the first four months of 2014, writes Nesma Nowar

Despite the fact that Egypt has seen two revolutions aiming at achieving social
justice and better living conditions, people are still struggling to make ends
meet amid worsening economic conditions and soaring inflation rates.

Industrial action and workers' strikes are still dragging on, with workers
asking for the same things that they were after the ouster of former president
Hosni Mubarak in 2011.

A recent paper by the Egyptian Centre for Economic and Social Rights (ECESR), an
NGO, showed that there were some 354 protests in the first quarter of 2014, of
which 249 were industrial actions.

The paper said that workers' living conditions had worsened as a result of a
decline in wages strained by high inflation rates and soaring prices, in
addition to the unfair implementation of the minimum wage of LE1,200 which came
into force this year.

The minimum wage excluded a big chunk of public-sector workers by covering only
those directly employed in the government's administrative apparatus. The paper
added that the workers' deteriorating situation could get even worse as the
result of the recently announced plans to cut subsidies, which will involve
price increases across the board.

"The persistent tough conditions have caused industrial action to escalate in
the first three months of 2014 despite the issuing of the notorious protest law
last November," the paper said.

It classified the protests according to reasons, places and forms of protest. It
found that industrial action topped the protests that took place this year, with
24 protests, followed by socially motivated protests, at 71, and then
economically motivated protests, at 34.

Cairo came first as the governorate that saw the majority of the protests, with
the paper attributing this to the fact that Cairo is the biggest governorate in
terms of hosting factories, companies and hospitals and it was where public
transportation workers are based.

Some 71 protests occurred in Cairo in the first three months of the year,
representing 19.8 per cent of all protests, with the highest number taking place
in February. Cairo was followed by Suez (31), Gharbiya (29), Menoufiya (27), and
Beheira (21).

The paper said that rallies were the workers' favourite form of protest,
representing more than 52 per cent of the protests in Egypt during the first
three months of the year. These were followed by strikes (15 per cent) and
sit-ins (10 per cent).

The public sector was where the majority of the protests took place, followed by
the public business sector and then the private sector, shedding light on the
problems facing the country's public sector.

Public business sector and private-sector workers have been protesting against a
delay in receiving their financial dues, including wages, and the hiring of
temporary workers.

"The workers' ongoing protests came as no surprise, given that their demands are
still unmet," said Farag Abdel-Fattah, a professor of economics at Cairo
University, who added that the legal situation of workers and their worsening
economic conditions were the main reasons that had prompted the protests.

Abdel-Fattah said that the economic polices followed for the past 30 years had
increased poverty rates and led to price increases, which in turn had caused
many workers to plunge into poverty. "In such an economic climate, it's very
logical to see protests through which labour expresses its grievances," he said.

Though Abdel-Fattah stated that the labour protests were justified, he also said
that it was important to reinforce the legal context to regulate such protests.
"There should be strong labour unions that decide on the protests and there
should be good reasons behind the protests," he said.

"The period of the protests should also be defined, and they should not harm
business 0activities."

Labour protests have been prominent in Egypt since the 25 January Revolution.
Workers have protested over wages, the employment of temporary workers,
mismanagement, mistreatment, corruption, and against the closure of factories
and businesses.

However the current protests are fewer than during the first two years of the
revolution. There were over 2,400 protests or strikes in the first quarter of
2013 alone, specifically between January and March, while in 2012 the figure
reached 3,817.

The decline stems from several agreements between the trade unions and both
prime ministers Hazem Al-Beblawi's and Ibrahim Mehleb's governments, which have
tried to tame the protests until economic conditions improve.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 914


                    Copyright 2014 Al-Ahram Publishing House
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              504 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             March 17, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Protest at 'corruption' in Turkey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 143 words


SCORES of people gathered at the weekend for a protest directed at the Turkish
government. The protest, at Leicester Clock Tower on Saturday afternoon, was
sparked by the death of 15-year-old Berkin Elvan, who had been in a coma for
nine months.

Berkin was hit on the head by a police gas cannister during anti-government
protests in Istanbul last summer.

Leicester protest organiser Burcu Erdogan, 24, of Beaumont Leys, said: "We
wanted to show our support for the family of the young boy who died and raise
awareness of what's going on back home.

"We want to stop the dictatorship and fascism.

"We are here to show our support for our country and to make it clear that we
want change."

The protesters said they were campaigning against government corruption and the
suppression of freedom of speech.

WATCH A VIDEO FROM THE PROTEST Go to: www.leicestermercury.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2014 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


                              505 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday

Nationwide protests held for slain Gezi victim continue

LENGTH: 226  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Thousands of demonstrators took to the streets on Tuesday and
Wednesday throughout the country to protest the death of Berkin Elvan, a
15-year-old boy who died on Tuesday after being in a coma for nine months after
being hit on the head by a tear gas canister during last summer's Gezi Park
protests.



Elvan was buried amid tears in an Istanbul cemetery on Wednesday afternoon with
participation of thousands of people.

Protests still continue in many cities of the country. On Wednesday, thousands
of people flocked to Istanbul's Taksim Square to protest the government. People
shouted slogans against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the ruling
Justice and Development Party (AK Party). Riot police set up barricades and
positioned water cannons at the entrance of Istiklal Street to prevent
protesters from gathering in Taksim Square. Police fired tear gas and water
cannons to disperse the crowd. Large numbers of people were taken into custody
during the protest.

Erdogan has said during Gezi Park protest that he "gave the orders" to police
for their intervention in the protests.

Protests were also staged in provinces of Ankara, Mersin, Hatay, Izmir, Çorum
and Kütahya.

SHOT LIST
Thursday, March 13, 2014 SOURCE: CIHAN
Police officers
Taksim square
Police intervention
Clash
Duration: 03:49
CIHANCopyright © 2014 Cihan News Agency.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2014 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              506 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                           February 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

'No quick| fixes for| protests'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 450 words


Curtailing protests in South Africa required long-term economic and
institutional changes, Johannesburg University researchers said yesterday.

"There cannot be short-term fixes, there needs to be real and substantial
change," said Carin Runciman, who specialises in the politics of protests and
social movements.

Professor Peter Alexander, South African research chair in social change and
sociology, said the focus on the service delivery dimension of protests was
often misplaced.

"Protests are not just about service delivery. Community protests are more of a
rebellion of the poor."

The poor were marginalised, and frequently stigmatised, and had limited means to
make their grievances meaningfully heard.

The research was based on more than 250 interviews and drew data from four media
sources, covering more than 2 000 protests since 2004. The research divided
protests into three categories - peaceful, disruptive and violent.

Runciman said there had been a general rise in protest action since 2004, with
peaks in 2009 and 2013. There were also generally more protests during winter.

"There is no clear relationship between protests and elections."

Just after the 2009 general elections, however, an increase was noted. One of
the possible explanations for this was that people believed President Jacob Zuma
would make substantial changes to people's everyday lives once in office, but
when this did not immediately happen people resorted to protesting.

People were not only concerned about the levels of service delivery they
received, but also about the quality of democracy they experienced.

Doctoral student Trevor |Ngwane said people often resorted to protesting,
frequently targeting ward councillors or mayors. This was because once these
officials were voted in there was no means of removing them if they failed to
deliver.

Discontent

Alexander said the fact that councillors often earned substantially more than
their constituents led to a social gap, which often led to discontent.

The research indicated that most communities began by expressing their
discontent peacefully, but this was frequently met with minimal response. The
protest would then become disruptive including blocking roads and burning tyres
before becoming violent, where property was damaged and people injured or
killed. The presence of police also sometimes exacerbated the violence of
protests.

Alexander said of controlling protests: "Repression won't work. It will
intensify |bitterness."

The growing number of protests in South Africa were also part of an
international trend.

"It's been a ticking time bomb in South Africa. Protests will continue unless
authorities listen and act positively, not bureaucratically." - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              507 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           February 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Protests reveal disillusionment of poor, study shows

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words


Curtailing protests in South Africa required long-term economic and
institutional changes, Johannesburg University researchers said yesterday.

"There cannot be short-term fixes," said Carin Runciman, who specialises in the
politics of protests and social movements.

Professor Peter Alexander, the South African research chairman in social change
and sociology, said the focus on the service dimension of protests was often
misplaced.

"Protests are not just about|service delivery. Community protests are more of a
rebellion of the poor," he said.

The poor were marginalised and had limited means to make their grievances
meaningfully heard.

The research was based on more than 250 interviews and drew data from four media
sources, covering more than 2 000 protests since 2004. It divided protests into
three categories - peaceful, disruptive and violent.

Runciman said there had been a general rise in protest action since 2004, with
peaks in 2009 and 2013.

"There is no clear relationship between protests and elections," she said.

Just after the 2009 general elections, however, an increase was noted. One of
the possible explanations for this was that people believed President Jacob Zuma
would make substantial changes to people's everyday lives, but this had not
immediately happened.

Doctoral student Trevor Ngwane said people often resorted to targeting ward
councillors or mayors because once they were voted in, there was no means of
removing them. Alexander said the fact that councillors often earned more than
their constituents often led to discontent.

The research indicated that most communities began by expressing their
discontent peacefully, but this was frequently met with minimal response. The
protest would then become disruptive. Police also sometimes exacerbated
violence. "Repression won't work," said Alexander.

The growing number of protests in South Africa were also part of an
international trend. - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              508 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily The Post

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

CNG sector, transporters start protests in Punjab

LENGTH: 522  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


All Pakistan CNG Association (APCNGA) and transporters will start protest
demonstrations in all cities of Punjab, including the twin cities of Rawalpindi
and Islamabad, from Monday (today). Thousands of jobless workers employed with
the compressed natural gas (CNG) business and transporters along with their
families plan come out on the roads against gas disconnection.



The protest demonstrations will be staged in Rawalpindi, Gujranwala, Sialkot,
Lahore, Faisalabad, Wazirabad, Gujrat, Multan, Sahiwal and several other cities
of Punjab on Monday (today).

Chairman Supreme Council APCNGA Ghiyas Abdullah Paracha on Sunday said that in
first phase of protest, we would stage protest demonstrations in Rawalpindi,
Gujranwala, Sialkot, Lahore, Faisalabad, Wazirabad, Gujrat, Sahiwal and Multan
on a regular basis. In the second phase protest demonstrations would be held in
the other cities of the province. We will continue our protest till the
acceptance of our demands, he warned.

He said the SNGPL has suspended the supply of natural gas to the CNG sector in
Punjab for indefinite period without the approval of the government and despite
stiff opposition from the Planning Commission of Pakistan, which is illegal and
unconstitutional. The unilateral and ill-timed decision has disturbed the daily
life of million of people while posing serious threat to Rs450 billion
investments in the CNG sector, he said.

He said that unlike others the CNG sector is the only sector, which has no
alternative to the natural gas and it shuts down completely when gas supply is
suspended. The government and the CNG operators have signed an agreement for
supply of gas around the year, which is being violated, he said.

Ghiyas Paracha said that all other sectors using natural gas have option to run
on furnace oil or electricity but the government's axe falls on the CNG sector
if it decides to suspend gas supply. He said that load management means
reduction in supply and that the CNG operators will not allow complete closure
in the name of management.

The SNGPL's 'one-sided' and flawed decision, he said, has hiked the transport
fares, disturbed the daily life, encouraged black marketing of petrol and hiked
the LPG prices by Rs40 per kg.

On the one hand, he said, the government is introducing employment schemes and,
on the other, it is taking decision that will result in massive unemployment and
non-serviceability of tens of thousands

of commercial and private

vehicles.

Other leaders of the association said that our filling stations are closed all
across Punjab and there is reduced pressure in the provinces of Sindh and Khyber
Pakhtoonkhwa but the domestic consumers are still not

getting gas.

Paracha also said the CNG sector has been paying the highest tariff and maximum
taxes but it is subjected to injustices. Gas suspension has left CNG owners
unable to pay gas bills and salaries.

He said that suspension orders should be reversed, gas should be supplied to CNG
stations from 9 am to 7 pm without interruption, cases be registered against
those responsible for gas crisis and the government should honour its
agreements.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              509 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

Topless protest in Palestine

BYLINE: Nasouh Nazzal Correspondent

LENGTH: 518 words


Ramallah: Topless feminist activists will hold protests at the community garden
of the Church of Nativity in Bethlehem on December 24, but intend to delay
announcing the aim of the protest until the protest occurs.

Femen, the topless feminist protest group, is coming to Bethlehem in the West
Bank next month to participate in Christmas celebrations and the group's
possible visit to the Palestinian territories has raised high concerns among
Palestinians and Muslim parties.

A number of international sources have recently revealed that several topless
feminist activists will arrive in Bethlehem next month during the Christmas
season to organise a topless protests at the community garden of the Nativity
Church. These sources claim the protest will be against violence and unfairness
and to highlight the activists' "right" to demonstrate and express opinions.

The possible visit of Femen activists to Palestine has provoked Islamist
Palestinian parties which have announced that such a visit to Palestine for such
a protest "will not be possible and will never happen".

"Palestine is a holy and blessed area which will never be sullied by those
atheist women," the Muslim activist told Gulf News. "This issue should not be
discussed in the first place. There is no room for those women in Palestine.
This should be realised and taken as a matter of fact."

Islamic factions in northern areas of the West Bank have already addressed this
issue with their colleagues in southern areas of the West Bank including
Bethlehem and Hebron. The official stressed that the protest remains so far a
rumour and that the parties in Palestine do not want to make it an issue.

"If the visit is confirmed and the women arrive in Palestine, action against
this visit will be taken," he said.

Vera Baboun, mayor of Bethlehem, has categorically rejected any kind of protests
by topless feminist activists in the city. "Any protest that does not observe
Palestinian customs and traditions and which violates public decency is
unwelcome," she said in a statement.

"Any protest to be organised in Bethlehem needs an official permit," she
stressed.

Femen is an exhibitionist feminist protest group based in Paris that originated
in Ukraine, having been founded there in 2008. Femen activists claim their nude
protests allegedly fight against patriarchy and gender inequality.

Baboun said that activists from the Femen group will visit the Palestinian
territories next month to organize topless protests on December 24, and that
will coincide with the Christmas celebrations. She said that Femen will announce
the cause of the protest in Palestine during the protest itself.

A senior official at the Palestinian security apparatus said the Palestinian
security in Bethlehem has not received the relevant instructions about the
possible visit.

"Our final opinion about this is that we can not allow such topless protests in
Palestine. If any such protest was organised, the security organisations will be
held responsible from the Palestinian public perspective," he told Gulf News.

<p class='syndigate_disclaimer'>© Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2013.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              510 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

BRIEF: One person killed during protests in Turkey

BYLINE: A. Taghiyeva, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words


Sept. 10--Protest actions of those dissatisfied with the policy of the ruling
Justice and Development Party took place in Antakya district of Turkish Hatay
province last night, Hürriyet newspaper reported on Tuesday.

During the fray there were clashes between the country's security forces and
demonstrators. One person was killed and several injured as a result of clashes.

Protests took place in Turkey for three weeks from late May. According to the
authorities, the protests were of an anti-government character.

As a result of the unrest in Turkey, nearly 4000 people were injured, five died
and 4900 were detained by the police.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130910-1AZ-BRF-One-person-killed-during-protests
-in-Turkey-0910-20130910

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              511 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           August 21, 2013 Wednesday

GJM concerned over Gorkhaland protests in Ktm

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: KAKADBHITTA


KAKADBHITTA, Aug. 21 -- Gorkha Janamukti Morcha, which has been spearheading
protests in Darjeeling Hills of India demanding a separate state, has expressed
reservations over the protests that took place in Kathmandu three days ago,
supporting the Gorkhaland movement.

GJM alleged that the recent protests calling for a separate Gorkhaland state in
Darjeeling hills outside the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu has incited the
'elements' which are against the idea of separate Gorkhaland state.

"We are totally unaware about the protests that occurred in Kathmandu ," said
GJM General Secretary Roshan Giri," We don't even know why the protests took
place in Kathmandu ." He speculated that the protests were orchestrated at the
behest of those who do not want Gorkhaland .

GJM leader Giri made it clear that Darjeeling does not need financial or moral
support of any of the foreign countries. "We have been facing criticisms even
without taking any support," he said," I wonder what will be the situation if we
move ahead taking foreign support."

Sources claimed that the Indian Defense Ministry too has been concerned
regarding the protests in Kathmandu .

GJM has been launching protests in Darjeeling since August 3 demanding separate
state of Gorkhaland in Darjeeling . The strike has paralysed normal life in the
region.

Mamata Banerjee visiting Darjeeling

Meanwhile, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit
Darjeeling in the first week of September, to participate in a programme.
Banerjee's visit is being viewed with keen interests as it comes in the wake of
intensified campaigns by Gorkhaland supporters.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              512 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2013 Tuesday

Protest in Tajik capital organized by pro-government groups - opposition

LENGTH: 302 words


Text of report by website of state-run Iranian radio external service from
Mashhad on 7 April

Some Tajik experts and media outlets have said that the protest rally held by a
group of Tajik youth in [the Tajik capital] Dushanbe city was organized by
pro-government groups.

A member of parliament and deputy chairman of the [opposition] Islamic Rebirth
Party of Tajikistan, Saidumar Husayni, mentioned that the city municipality had
refused a request by the party in the past to hold a protest demonstration to
condemn the killing of women and children in Gaza by the Zionist regime. He
added: "It is not clear for us how did the youth get permission to hold the
demonstration spontaneously?"

Shokirjon Hakimov, prominent lawyer and deputy chairman of the [opposition]
Social Democratic Party of Tajikistan, described the protest demonstration of
the Tajik youth at the US embassy as a false and unsuccessful scenario of the
government. He said: "While the municipality has repeatedly refused requests by
political organizations and parties to hold public protests why did it keep
silence over the protest of a group of the youth?" He believes it is absolutely
clear that the protest rally was held with a green light of official Dushanbe.

Over 100 Tajik youth on Friday afternoon [5 April] organized a protest rally in
front of the US embassy in Dushanbe, the capital of the country, and called for
handing former Tajik prime minister Abdumalik Abdullojonov over to court.

The accused prime minister of Tajikistan, who has a political refugee status in
the USA, was released from a remand centre in Kiev, Ukraine, at the
recommendation of the US authorities and request of some international
organizations on Thursday, 4 April.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran website, Mashhad, in Persian 1149
gmt 7 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              513 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             March 11, 2013 Monday

Christian community holds countrywide protests

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 69

LENGTH: 347  words


The Christian community is holding protests throughout the country against
Badami Bagh, Lahore, incident.

In Lahore' the protestors completely destroyed Yuhana Abad Metro Bus Station and
set ablaze electric transformer.

Police used tear gas and rounded up some miscreants.

PPP Minority Wing also held a protest rally in front of Punjab Assembly against
Badami Bagh incident.

On the other hand 5 policemen were injured in tone pelting by the protestors at
Ferozepur road.

Christian community also held a protest demonstration at Faizabad interchange
Rawalpindi against the incident.

In Faisalabad' the District Aman Committee protested against the Lahore
incident.

Local Islamic clerics, students and people from various walks of life also
attended the protest demonstration.

Police resorted to tear gas shelling and aerial firing in front of Press Club to
disperse the protest rally in Karachi. The demonstrators turned violent and
torched some of the vehicles and pelted stones at police.

Protests were also reported in Mandi Bahauddin, Sargodha, Gojra, Dera Ismail
Khan, Peshawar and Gujranwala.

In Sind, Christian communities held protest demonstrations in Karachi and
Sukkur.

The protesters demanded to immediately arrest the miscreants.

PPP member of Punjab Assembly and President of Punjab PPP Minorities Wing'
Pervez Rafiq has resigned in protest against Badami Bagh incident.

Meanwhile' Chief Minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif visited the Josef Colony and
directed authorities to swiftly address the grievances of the people.

He said Badami Bagh incident is an attempt to mutilate the image of Pakistan. He
said culprits will be brought to justice.

Pakistan Qaumi Masiha Party and Pakistan Minorities League staged a protest
outside Lahore Press Club on Sunday.

Meanwhile, Chief Justice of Pakistan Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry has
taken suo-moto notice of Joseph Colony' Badami Bagh' Lahore incident and hearing
will be held today (Monday).

On March 9, over 150 homes of the Christian community were ransacked and set on
fire by an angry mob over alleged blasphemy committed by Sawan Masih.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              514 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Oppn parties declare protest programmes

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 243  words


BIRATNAGAR: Nine opposition parties have announced 10-day protest programmes in
Biratnagar today against Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai starting from January
25.

Organising a press conference, opposition parties declared protest programme to
topple the Bhattarai-led government through street protests as he has been
refusing to put in his papers. They have even formed the Protest Coordination
Committee comprising district chiefs of all the nine parties.

According to the protest programme schedule, they will stage joint protest rally
and meet in Biratnagar's Janaandolan Chowk on January 25. A motorcycle rally
would be staged in front of stadium at 1 pm on January 29. Similarly, the
political parties would organise horn rally on January 31 and February 1.
Finally, a public meeting with more than 50,000 participants will be held on
February 20 in Biratnagar.

The parties have even warned that if Bhattarai fails to resign by then, they
would continue their protests on the same day on February 20. Speaking at a
press meet, Congress' Amod Prasad Upadhaya clarified that the protest programmes
are not intended for the PM chair but to get back the kidnapped democracy.

Similarly, UML Morang chairperson Mahesh Regmi said the objective of the
opposition was not only to make a way for the government but also to stop the
illegal activities carried out by the government that are against peoples'
interest and to hold polls by institutionalising democracy.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              515 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday

Summer protests will return and be more political, says organizer

BYLINE: BEN HARTMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 394 words


Last year's social justice protests will return to Israel this summer, just with
more focus, anger and specific demands, and without the tent cities that defined
the summer of 2011, a leader of one of the groups looking to reignite the
protests said Sunday.

Idan Miller, a 40-year-old Tel Aviv hi-tech worker and one of the founders of
the group "the joint camp" (hamahaneh hameshutaf), said that the summer's
protest will also be political, a marked divergence from the oft-repeated
refrains of last year's protest leaders, who characterized the demonstrations as
a sort of apolitical, pan-Israeli awakening of overburdened citizens.

"This summer's protests will be much more political, because we realize that the
changes happen in the political realm," Miller said. "Those who hold the keys
are those politicians who are trying to be the prime minister."

Miller added that they "won't just be about shouting social justice and saying
'I'm not political.' This time we'll say we are political and the only way to
change things is at the ballot box."

Saturday night's protest against rising gas and electricity prices brought
together several hundred people and was the largest street demonstration since
the "March of the Million" held last September. While it was similar to last
summer's rallies - protesters shouted for revolution, red flags were on display
and there was a half-hearted attempt to block a major city thoroughfare - Miller
said it also showed how this summer's protests will be different.

"The protest this summer will be much more focused on very specific issues, like
last night's protest, which was focused on two specific issues: gas and
electricity. There are a number of concrete issues and we will try and force the
system to focus on them," he said.

Miller said he believes that the protests will only kick off in earnest in May,
with the opening of the Knesset summer session, but when it will, it will not
include tent cities and the urban Woodstock vibe of last summer.

Around a half dozen protest groups are planning demonstrations in the coming
months, with most talk focusing on reigniting the protests this summer. They
appear to be on fertile ground, at least according to a survey released by the
College of Academic Management Studies last week, which stated that 78 percent
of Israelis feel the cost of living protests should continue.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Idan Miller (Credit: Channel 2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              516 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday

Programme summary of Afghan Ariana TV news in Dari 1530 gmt 25 Feb 12

LENGTH: 821 words


A. Home News

B. News Headlines

1. 0050 The Ministry of Interior has reported in a statement that two foreign
advisors were killed in an armed clash in the command centre of the ministry. It
has been said that the two foreigners were American advisors and the Taleban
have claimed that the attack was conducted in reaction to the Koran burning. A
Taleban spokesman has said four foreign advisers were killed by one of their
associate who was working in the Interior Ministry. Video archive shows some
foreign soldiers.

2. 0240 The Afghan government introduced nine ministers-designate to parliament
to get a vote of confidence from the MPs. The ministers were introduced by the
Second Vice-president Karim Khalili at a ceremony today. Speaking during the
ceremony, Mr Khalili said that peace is a need of the Afghans, but the peace
process must be led by Afghans. He has said that the achievements of the past 10
years must not be lost and the Afghan constitution should be respected in the
peace process. Video shows Khalili addressing a parliamentary session.

3. 0510 Four people were killed and 50 others were wounded in today's violent
protest in Konduz Province. Reportedly, over 20 others were wounded in a similar
protest in Laghman Province. The provincial officials said 17 suspects were also
detained in connection with violent protests in Laghman Province. Another report
from Nangarhar Province says four people were killed and three others were
wounded in today's protests in two districts of this province but the provincial
officials did not confirm the report on casualties. Report adds that peaceful
protest was held in Sar-e Pol Province. Video shows protests in various
provinces of the country.

4. 0730 A Statement by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Afghanistan
(UNAMA) condemns violent protests in northern Konduz Province which involved
attack against the provincial office of UNAMA in the mentioned province. The
statement says some opportunists try to take advantage of the situation and
attack government and non-government properties which is not to the benefit of
Afghans and their country. Video shows archive footage of the protests in the
province.

5. 0810 Adverts

6. 0920 Some religious scholars in northern Baghlan Province denounce violent
protests which results in killing of civilians and destruction of government or
private buildings. Speaking on issue, some religious scholars said the violent
protests only harm Afghans and does not resolve the problems. They called on
people in the province to stage only peaceful protests and prove their bravery
and love for Koran. Video shows some religious scholars talking on the issue,
archive footage of violent protests.

7. 1050 Some religious scholars meet President Karzai and discuss burning of the
Holy Koran and actions so far taken for the punishment of the perpetrators. The
president also voiced concern over the issue and violent protests in the country
and said new measures will be taken to avoid such incidents in future. The
scholars also condemned burning of the Holy Koran and called on the president to
take a guarantee from foreign forces not to repeat such acts. No video.

8. 1120 Bayat Foundation distributes winter assistance to hundreds of vulnerable
people in northern Baghlan Province. Speaking on the issue, some people thanked
Bayat Foundation for the assistance. Video shows distribution of assistance to
some people, some officials talking on the issue.

9. 1430 Dr Burna Asefi, a man widely credited as one of the founders of
contemporary mental health services in Afghanistan, passed away in London today.
No video. (See separate report)

10. 1500 Commercials

D. Foreign News

11. 1810 Reports say that nearly 100 people have been killed and dozens of
others have been wounded in Homs; Abdorabo Mansur Hadi has taken an oath as the
new President of Yemen.

12. 1850 The IAEA has said that Iran has accelerated enriching uranium and has
enriched over 100 kilograms of uranium so far.

E. Economics News

13. 1920 Report on launch of a number of projects in central Ghazni Province.
The projects are part of the efforts for introducing the province as the capital
of Islamic countries in 2013. Video shows part of the province, some officials
talking on the issue.

14. 2010 Officials in Konar Province have said that reopening of the Nawapas
transit route in the province will increase economic growth in the province.
Meanwhile, the foundation of a custom house was laid in the province. Video
archive shows parts of Konar.

15. 2130 Afghan Chamber of Commerce and Interior Ministry distribute winter
assistance to over 700 families in various parts of Kabul. The assistance
included fuel, blankets and foodstuffs which were mainly distributed to the
internally displaced people in the outskirts of Kabul. Video shows distribution
of assistance to some people.

G. Weather forecast:

Source: Ariana TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 25 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              517 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday

Regulate demos, LHC orders govt

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 367

LENGTH: 286  words


The Lahore High Court on Wednesday sought reply from the Punjab Government on a
plea seeking policy to regulate demonstrations and protests in the province
especially in Lahore, and some administrative actions against Paramedical
Alliance President over the death of an old lady during the demo before PIC.

Petitioner-Lawyer Mian Asad Mahmud said that Punjab Paramedical Alliance (PPA)
on Feb 8 had staged a protest before the Punjab Institute of Cardiology (PIC)
demanding professional allowance, revision of service structure for lower grad
employees and pay protection.

He submitted that such kinds of protests and blocking the traffic were causing
disturbance for the public at large and during the protest of PPA an old lady
Saleema Bibi, en-rout to PIC for emergency medical treatment, lost her life.

Petitioner contended that PPA's style of protest was not in professional way as
they have a right to protest but they don't have right to stop any ambulance
carrying patients.

He pointed out that protests were increasing day by day and the city is
witnessing at least two to three protests daily which were causing problems for
the commuters and disturbing routine life of masses.

He requested for directions to Punjab government to devise a strategy to
regulate the protests. Petitioner also prayed to penalise the PPA President
Malik Munir for his neglecting act of causing a loss of an old lady by adopting
illegal way of protest.

After recording initial arguments, Justice Manzoor Ahmad Malik issued notices to
Punjab government, Secretary Health and PPA president for Feb 17.

The court also directed the petitioner to make party to Capital City Police
Officer, Lahore and other police officers in the petition.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              518 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

Secretariat employees chart new course of protests

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Sept. 8 -- In what could be described as a novel way of protest,
employees of the Civil Secretariat here after performing their duties in the day
chose to protest during the night right within the secretariat premises. They
were intermittently shouting slogans in favour of employees' demands and then
chatting over the outcome of their strike.Moreover, some Cabinet ministers
including Peerzada Mohammad Syeed, and Chief Secretary Madhav Lal and many a
commissioner secretaries were also compelled to stay put in the secretariat for
the night.

"Let's work so that common people are not troubled but at the same time we
should also register our protest," goes the idea behind this new way of protest,
the protesting secretariat employees said. "This really is a unique way to
protest given the history of protest demonstrations in the state. We thought
that people should not suffer when we press for our genuine demands," Rauf Ahmad
Bhat, president Civil Secretariat Non-Gazetted Employees Union (CSNGEU) told
'Kashmir Images'.Even when many of their colleagues were protesting in the
premises and at the gate, some employees were directed to continue work during
the night."We took permission from chief secretary in writing so that pending
RTI and litigation files are completed during the night amid protest. We don't
want to follow age-old tradition of creating inconvenience to the common people
by our strikes," says Subhash Koul, secretary CSNGEU.Asked as to how they
thought of this 'out of box' idea of protest, Bhat told said, "See in 1947, we
used to cook food on the fire in an open hearth, but times have changed; now we
just have to press a button and food is ready. So, age-old ways of protest will
do no more in the modern age as human mind is constantly evolving."Employees
were all joy about introduction the novel way in the protest history of Kashmir
as it does in no way harm the interests of the common people. "It is a great
privilege to be part of a protest that harms none and at the same time speaks
about the discontent of the local employees," exuded an employee of General
Administration Department.However, he feels sorry that "State government is
sanctioning arrears of non-local IAS and IPS officers in one go, but claims
there are no resources when it comes to paying the local employees of the
state." Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


                              519 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     The News Herald (Panama City, Florida)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

Muslims protest Israeli raid: Counter protesters across street say Jewish nation
has right to defend itself

BYLINE: Sarah Owen, The News Herald, Panama City, Fla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


Jun. 6--PANAMA CITY -- Activists on one side of the street waved Israeli flags,
while those across the intersection carried Palestinian banners. Both sides held
American flags and both sides prayed.

About 150 Panama City Muslims and their friends and families gathered Saturday
to protest the Israeli blockade of Gaza, which resulted Monday in the deaths of
nine people after troops raided a flotilla laden with supplies.

Another crowd of about 50 stood on the opposite corner of 23rd Street and State
77 to protest the protest.

Vivian Mohamed, a member of Bay County Islamic Society, said the event wasn't
about religion and it wasn't about politics; it was about basic human rights.

"Bottom line, we're humans first," Mohamed said. "That flotilla was strictly
humanitarian aid. They were doing a good thing; they were innocent, and they
were killed."

Supporters carried signs that read "Peace for all," "Stop hate" and "Honk for
human rights." They chanted "USA, USA" and "Hugs, not bullets."

Mohamed said her goal in organizing the rally was to help educate the community
about the blockade and about the "underlying tones" of the conflict.

"When they think Jerusalem and Palestine, they think Jewish and Muslim," she
said. "They see us, Muslims, as foreigners. Well, I'm American -- I was born and
raised in Ohio."

Across the street, someone shouted, "Go back to the Middle East; go back home."

Ron Kimbal agreed the issue wasn't religion, but said it was political. He
carried a sign that read, "I support Israel."

"Basically, Israel is standing up to these flotillas -- they're defending their
rights to defend themselves," Kimbal said. "These flotillas could be bringing
weapons into the country. Israel has a right to defend herself from terror."

John Nichol, a former member of the Air Force, echoed fears of weaponry slipping
through the blockade.

"They shouldn't have to have rockets imported in on their heads," Nichol said.
"And I'm not a Jew; I'm a Christian."

Protesters on his side of the street sang Christian hymns while Judy Mullikin
and Marian Nickel weaved through crowds on the opposite side of the road handing
out candy bars and fliers.

"We understand that Jesus loves everyone and God has a covenant with both of the
peoples, Arabs and Jews," Nickel said. "These people have told me they love
America; they love me. We just want them to know we're all God's children."

To see more of The News Herald or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsherald.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The News Herald, Panama City,
Fla. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100606-PY-Muslims-protest-Israeli-raid-0606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PY


                         Copyright 2010 The News Herald


                              520 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests staged in Sukkur

BYLINE:  Kamran Shaikh

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1462

LENGTH: 314  words


Local people staged different protest demonstration in Sukkur in favour of their
demands on Tuesday.

According to details, the people of the Shaikh Community under the leadership of
Allah Dino, Saeeda, Zahida and Lal Khatoon staged a protest demonstration
against the kidnapping of their girl namely Shabiran. Talking to newsmen, they
alleged that the armed men including Amjad Mirani, Amjad Shaikh and others had
kidnapped their girl ten days ago and despite passage of ten days the police
have not recovered their girl. They demanded for the immediate recovery of their
girl. Another protest was staged by the people of the Pathan Community,
demanding for action against the police officials, involved in cutting throat of
a youth of their community namely Munawar Khan. They were led by Advocate
Maulana Amir Khan, Mir Dadan Khan, Shahbaz Pathan.

The third protest was staged by the traders of Sukkur against the robbery from
the shop of Dr Sunil Kumar. The leaders of the Anjuman-e-Tajiran including Syed
Muhammad Shah, Haroon Shaikh and others led the protest. The activists of the
Sindh Taraqqi Pasand Party chapter Sukkur staged a protest demonstration in
favour of the demands of the employees of NPIW. They demanded of the government
of Sindh to take notice of the matter and regularize the services of the NPIW
employees.

The fourth protest was staged by the people of the Gopang Community, residents
of Kandiaro against the abduction of their youth. Talking to newsmen, they said
that a few influential persons of their area namely Shahzado Gopang, Nawab
Gopang, Murtaza Gopang and others had kidnapped a youth of their community
namely Riaz Gopang on 5th of March and added that the SHO Kandiaro, Aslam
Laghari is supporting the above mentioned accused. They demanded for the
immediate recovery of the abducted youth and action against the accused persons
and SHO Kandiaro.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              521 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. III No. 1449

LENGTH: 199  words


Different protests were staged outside the Hyderabad press club on Tuesday.
According to details, the former employees of the SRTC under the leadership of
Haji Ghulam Mohammad Depar and others staged a protest demonstration for the
issuance of their remaining stipends.

A youth namely Mohammad Rehan Yousufzai, resident of Latifabad staged a protest
for the issuance of his offer order. A man namely Dhani Bux Chandio, resident of
Moosa Khatiyan near Tando Jam staged a protest demonstration for the
reinstatement of his son's services. A man namely Fardil Khan, resident of Amani
Shah Colony Latifabad staged a protest for the recovery of his stolen valuables.

The people of the Bheel community including Nursingh Bheel, Roojhi Bheel, Tejhoo
Bheel and others residents of village Ghulam Mohammad Laghari district
Mirpurkhas while addressing a protest demonstration demanded of the high-ups for
the immediate arrest of the accused attackers.

The people of the Kolhi community under the leadership of Veerji Kolhi and
others, residents of Nangar Parkar staged a protest demonstration for the arrest
of the accused rapist of Kasuri Kolhi. They demanded for the immediate arrest of
the involved rapists.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              522 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

Students in Pakistan tribal area protest Afghan, Iran "interference"

LENGTH: 202 words


Excerpt from report by staff reporter headlined "Kurram students protest foreign
interference" published by Pakistan newspaper Daily Times website on 14 August

Peshawar: People from different areas recorded their protest by staging protest
demonstrations and addressing news conferences and issued warnings to the
government for redressing their grievances here on Wednesday [13 August].

The first such protest demonstration was staged by students from Kurram Agency,
who asked the government to take notice of interference by Afghanistan and Iran
in their areas.

The students chanted slogans against the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation
(NATO) forces in Afghanistan for their alleged bombing of the Sunni Muslim
population in Kurram Agency.

Carrying banners and placards, the students were stopped by policemen when they
tried to stage protest demonstrations in front of the Afghan and Iranian
consulates.

They alleged the governments of Afghanistan and Iran were openly involved in the
sectarian fighting in Kurram Agency, which had so far claimed hundred of lives
and dislodged thousands others from their houses since November last year.
[Passage omitted]

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 14 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              523 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

Serbian "nationalist organizations" protest Karadzic arrest for 7th straight day

LENGTH: 313 words


Text of report by Serbian independent news agency Beta

["Nationalist Organizations Hold Protest" - BETA headline]

Belgrade, 28 July - A protest against the arrest of war crimes indictee Radovan
Karadzic was held in Belgrade again today, for the seventh day in a row.

The protest, organized by the Serbian Radical Party [SRS] and the nationalist
organizations Obraz [Dignity] and 1389 [year of the Battle of Kosovo], was
incident-free.

Several hundred protesters gathered just after 1700 hours [ 1500 gmt] in Trg
Republike Square and set off on a protest march along Decanska Street, across
Trg Nikole Pasica Square, along Kneza Milosa and Kralja Milana Streets, and back
to Trg Republike, where the protest ended an hour later.

While marching, they shouted familiar slogans from similar gatherings and
chanted support for Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic.

At the protest, SRS official Natasa Jovanovic urged people to turn out for the
Radicals' rally in Belgrade tomorrow and said she expects the protest to be
attended by 1 million people.

A strong police presence was securing state institutions along the protesters'
route, as well as the McDonalds' restaurant and the Belgrade headquarters of the
Democratic Party in central Terazije Square.

It was noticed that there were more reporters at today's rally than at the
protests held at the weekend.

During protests over the past few days, several reporters, cameramen, and news
photographers were attacked, prompting a decision by media houses to scale down
coverage of rallies.

During the past three days, police have been perceived to be protecting
reporters and preventing their contact with demonstrators during protest
marches.

Radovan Karadzic was arrested in Belgrade on Monday, 21 July, which triggered
daily protests staged by a number of nationalist organizations.

Source: Beta news agency, Belgrade, in Serbian 1646 gmt 28 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              524 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday

Journalists continue protest for press freedom

LENGTH: 291 words


ISLAMABAD: Journalists community continued their protest demonstration against
the ban on media and to show sympathy with deposed judges.  The protest was
organized by Rawalpindi Islamabad Union of Journalists here outside the
Islamabad Press Club. President RIUJ, Afzal Butt was leading the protest
demonstration.

The participants of the rally were holding banners and placards inscribed with
the slogans of freedom of speech and restoration of deposed Judge.  While
addressing the protest rally he vowed to continue the struggle for the freedom
of speech, which had started some months back. He said that Journalists and
lawyers were harassed and handcuffed in Karachi which is the worst example in
the history.  He further said that with the beginning of journalists protest
demonstration all the channels were banned.  But now, government has open few
channels ostensibly after imposing heavy restrictions.

However, Geo News, Aag, Geo Sports, Royal TV and FM-99 are still shutdown.
Therefore, government must restore the transmission of all these channels, he
demanded.  Secretary General PFUJ, Mazhar Abbas in his address said that
historic struggle of the journalists, lawyers and member of civil societies is
continuing and the number of the protestors is increasing day by day which would
further strengthen the movement.  He demanded from the government to lift ban
from all channels immediately. He also demanded release of the all the arrested
lawyers.

Members of the civil societies and workers of political parties also expressed
their views on the occasion. Jamil Abbasi, Sardar Naseem (PML-N), Ishtiaq Assi,
Hamayun Mirza, former secretary Interior, Rodad Khan, J. Salik and Raja Hanif
Advocate were also present on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Community/Civic Groups; Regulation/Government Policy; Labor
Disputes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

                      Copyright 2007 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              525 of 995 DOCUMENTS

                               The Jerusalem Post

                          September 6, 2007, Thursday

Sderot parents call on Olmert to resign in Jerusalem protest. 'We live in a war
zone'

BYLINE: Rory Kress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words


Sderot residents gathered outside the Knesset on Wednesday afternoon to protest
the government's poor security provisions after another week of heavy Kassam
attacks and no military response.

Parents were calling for Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's resignation and carrying
hand-painted signs saying The Knesset never gets hit by Kassams. They fed their
young children popsicles before allowing them to climb atop mounds of
construction rubble to shout towards Olmert's office that they no longer want
him or the rockets.

The protest was organized by the Committee for a Secure Sderot - an apolitical
group that lobbies for improved security in Sderot and provides services to the
community.

The protest included a boycott of the Sderot municipality's educational system
following a Kassam attack near a busy nursery school on Monday.

" Hamas is accurate enough to hit our preschool over and over again...they're
targeting our children said Dov Dalin, 24, a student at Sapir College who lives
in Sderot.  I sleep on the floor instead of in my bed. I don't live a normal
life. I live in a war zone."

Gilad Sabag 18 attends high school in Sderot. This past Sunday he should have
returned to school like the rest of students across the country but instead he
recalled a very different scene.

"From 5 a.m. the Kassams were falling without stop he recalled. People were
screaming and running - but nobody cared. I was afraid to get hit. My school
isn't secure; I feel it and I know it."

Though school has been in session for five days Sderot students have attended
less than one full day of classes Sderot Municipality spokesman Yosef Pinhas
Cohen told The Jerusalem Post during the demonstration.

According to Cohen seven Kassams struck Sderot during the Monday morning
commute. "We had small children on the way to school and they didn't know what
to do. It's impossible to learn Cohen said. He echoed a common sentiment among
Sderot parents that the actual security of the school buildings is not the main
issue; rather, it is the fact that the children must leave the relative safety
of their homes to go to school.

When asked if schools would reopen on Thursday, Cohen could only reply Maybe yes
maybe no and explained that most parents were trying to take their children out
of the city altogether.

Chana Melul, a Sderot mother of three young children, should have seen her
oldest child attend his first day of first grade on Sunday.

It's a very very sad thing for me. All of my enthusiasm for taking him to his
first day of school is gone. I missed it sighed Melul.

Instead, she and her children awoke at 5: 30 in the morning to the sound of the
Tzeva Adom (Color Red) Kassam warning siren.

Usually I am awake to take care of my kids but this time I was awake because of
the Kassams. My youngest child said to me 'Mommy now I need water because I have
to relax after the siren.' It's not normal. They haven't been on a playground in
more than a year lamented Melul.

When Sderot schools reopen, Melul believes she will allow her child to go. I
will take him because I want him to feel like he has a routine life she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: SDEROT RESIDENTS protest in front of the Prime Minister's Office
in Jerusalem yesterday refusing to send their children to school and demanding
the government stop the constant Kassam rocket attacks. (Credit: Sebastian
Scheiner/Ap)

                       Copyright 2007 The Jerusalem Post


                              526 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FIRST Edition

The right and wrong way to protest

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 336  words


THE two protests held in Melbourne over the past few days could not have been
further apart in how they were held and the effect they had in getting their
messages across.

The message of the G20 protest was completely obscured by the violent behaviour
of a relatively few idiots who were there only to disrupt and destroy.

Monday's ''bush'' protest on the other hand was dignified and peaceful, as a
protest should be.

Bob Williams, Croydon Hills

GOOD to see the farmers didn't ride their horses into McDonald's or the Nike
store, but instead, marched peacefully. Then, again, they were all hard-working
Aussies, not like the trash on the weekend.

Clint Brown, Burnie, Tas


TWO methods of protest:

1: Smashing property, abusing police and screaming slogans.

2: A street march by hundreds of country Victorians making a peaceful point.

I too will protest this Saturday. I will protest by supporting a country-based
political party. I will not give my support to metropolitan controlled political
parties with no inkling of the damage they have caused rural Victoria over the
past 25 years.

If Messrs Bracks and Baillieu cannot recognise that there are people living past
Dandenong, they should get re-educated.

John Cribbes, Sale


THE cattlemen claim continuing use of national parks because of seven
generations of access.

Will they support Aboriginal access to all of Australia because of something
like 1500 generations of access?

These cattlemen want something for nothing.

Lawry Twining, Northcote


THE Liberal Party's support for cattle grazing in the Alpine National Park
contradicts the party's loud calls for water conservation and healthy national
parks.

Alpine grazing was wrecking the headwaters of major water catchments and sending
native species to the brink of extinction.

Political parties should be protecting public lands and catchments, not
virtually giving them away to private grazing interests. A healthy environment
and alpine grazing simply don't mix.

Charlie Sherwin, director, Victorian National Parks Association

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              527 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            July 20, 2016 Wednesday

UoH students object to designated protest spots

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, July 20 -- Student groups of University of Hyderabad said that they
are against the decision to identify one or two areas in the campus for staging
protests or demonstrations.

"It was resolved to constitute a committee with the Dean Students' Welfare and a
member of the executive council to identify one or two areas on the campus for
staging protests/demonstrations in a democratic manner," as mentioned in a
document titled 'Minutes of the 169th meeting of the Executive Council held at 3
P.M, on June 28, 2016'.

"Protests are not programmes, they do not have boundaries. If there is an issue
at mess or hostel, we will protest there but not at designated sites," said
Gurajada Garikapati, spokesperson of ABVP-UoH.

Member of Ambedkar Students' Association (ASA), Dontha Prashant expressed a
similar opinion. "If there is a problem in finance department, I will stage a
protest there but not in a forest," he said.

Officials from the university said that the designated protest sites have not
been decided yet. As of today, the student groups stage protests at Shopping
Complex of UoH, administration building, before main gate and other places. Of
all the places, the shopping complex, where Rohit Vemula stayed in Velivada till
his death, is ground zero for protests from January. In the document, it was
also mentioned that disciplinary action would be taken for blockade of entry
into campus or administration building. Earlier, in some of the protests that
were organised staff were not allowed into the administration building.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              528 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             May 12, 2016 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 133

LENGTH: 249  words


<Text>

Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday. According to the details, the
activists of the Sindh Small Industries Corporation Employees' Union including
President Noor Mohammad Khoso and others staged a protest in favor of their
demands. The protestors said that due to wrong policies of the government
hundreds of employees have been deprived of their salaries and pensions since
past 8 months. A man namely Ghulam Mustafa, resident of Kotri staged a protest
demonstration against the mill manager, who has sacked him from the service. A
man namely Zameer Hussain staged a protest demonstration against his stepmother
Surya Nisar Khokhar. A woman namely Parveen, resident of Paretabad staged a
protest demonstration against her husband Safeer Mohammad.

She accused her husband of subjecting her to torture. A woman namely Shahnaz
Mangi w/o Barkat Mangi, resident of Kotri staged a protest against her husband
for forcing her to prostitution. The residents of Tando Adam including Zubair
Ahmed, Raza Mohammad and others staged a protest demonstration against HESCO
Subdivision Tando Adam for surplus charges on electricity bills. The residents
of Maitari including Mohammad Bachal Mallah and others staged a protest
demonstration against the local landlord Mir Mohammad Shah for occupying their
houses and issuing them dire threats.  They all urged the concerned authorities
to resolve their problems.

</Text>

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              529 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             March 21, 2016 Monday

PPP groups protest, but separately

BYLINE: AAMIR YASIN

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 81

LENGTH: 391  words


The divided PPP in the Rawalpindi city on Sunday responded positively to the
call of party chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari to protest against the PML-N
government for allowing Pervez Musharraf to go abroad.

Two separate protest gatherings were held in the garrison city by the PPP
workers and supporters against the government decision. Over 250 people turned
up at both the protests.

One of the groups staged a protest at Liaquat Bagh in front of Benazir Bhutto's
monument. The divisional coordinator of the party, Raja Imran Ashraf, PPP city
president Amir Fida Paracha and Shujaat Haider Naqvi led the protest.

More than 100 party workers and supporters took part in the protest. The
participants were carrying placards inscribed with slogans against the PML-N
leadership.

Both groups were responding to Bilawal's call to protest Musharraf's exit

The speakers said the government allowed Musharraf, an accused in the Benazir
murder case, to leave the country as it wanted to give him an amnesty in the
case.

They said in difficult times, Nawaz Sharif sought help from the PPP but he
changed his attitude later. They said Mr Sharif gave a safe passage to the
former president without any justification.

They said the PPP would continue its struggle to strengthen democracy and
parliament without the PML-N which always danced to the tunes of others. They
said the days of the PML-N government were numbered and the PPP had started an
agitation against its wrong polices.

On the other hand, more than 150 PPP workers and supporters gathered at Siddiqui
Chowk on Saidpur Road led by Babar Jadoon, Khalid Nawaz Bobi and Chaudhry
Banaras.

'Go Nawaz Go' slogans were chanted by the protesters. They blocked the road for
an hour and dispersed peacefully.

The speakers stressed the need for bringing Musharraf back to face the law.
Musharraf will never come back during the tenure of Nawaz Sharif as he (Sharif)
assured Musharraf's friends that no action would be taken against him even in
the Benazir murder case, claimed Babar Jadoon.

When contacted, PPP city chapter spokesman Shujaat Haider Naqvi said the party
had invited all the workers and local leaders to Liaquat Bagh but the other
group did not turn up as it wanted to maintain its own identity.

However, Babar Jadoon added that old party workers were not informed about the
programme at Liaquat Bagh.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              530 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2016 Monday

Opposition protest ends in Kyrgyz south

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report by privately-owned daily Kyrgyz newspaper Vecherniy Bishkek on 14
March

The protest in the town of Kerben in Aksy District has ended. VB [Vecherniy
Bishkek] learnt this from the leader of the political movement Jany Muun, Timur
Saralayev.

According to him, the protest was attended by around 500 people. It lasted for
two hours. According to the organisers, there were provocations by authorities.
Athletic men attempted to foil the holding of the protest. They jostled and
tried to provoke the participants to violate the law.

However, the police department for Dzhalal-Abad Region denied reports concerning
the number of participants in the protest. Members of the police told VB that
only 70 people from among locals had gathered in Kerben and around 100
protesters in Dzhalal-Abad.

At the moment the situation is stable. No violations by participants in the
protest have been registered. According to the law-enforcement agencies, the
protest ended at 1330 [0730 GMT].

Source: Vecherniy Bishkek, Bishkek, in Russian 14 Mar 16

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              531 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                           January 21, 2016 Thursday
                                 Hobart Edition

Arrests first under new protest law

BYLINE: BLAIR RICHARDS State Political Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 202  words


TASMANIA'S Resources Minister says the State Government's anti-protest laws are
working as they should, following a further arrest at a community forest protest
in the North-West.

A 35-year-old Lutana woman participating in the Lap-oinya protest was yesterday
arrested and charged for failing to comply with a police direction to leave the
area.

The woman was the second person to be arrested at the protest after a
66-year-old ana-esthetist from Wynyard was arrested on Tuesday.

They were the first people to be charged under the Liberals' anti-protest laws,
designed to protect forestry businesses from being disrupted.

"The Government is a strong supporter of free speech and the right to protest.
But we also unashamedly support the rights of people to earn a lawful living,"
Resources Minister Paul Harriss said. The Government's political opponents say
while the unrest at Lapoinya may suit the Liberals politically, it will damage
the forest industry by making Forestry Tasmania's quest to gain environmental
certification even harder. Opposition leader Bryan Green said Mr Harriss " wants
the forest wars to continue for his own political interests". "That can only
mean the demise of Forestry Tasmania," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Hobart Mercury


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              532 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

PROTESTS POSTPONED

BYLINE: Alexei Gorbachev, Daria Garmonenko

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 1428

LENGTH: 602 words



HIGHLIGHT: PROTEST ACTION IN MOSCOW MIGHT TAKE PLACE ON DECEMBER 1 AND NOT ON
NOVEMBER 15; The opposition decided to postpone the protest action in Moscow.


Insiders claim that the protest action the opposition is planning in Moscow
might take place in the middle of December and not on November 15 as it was
initially scheduled. Organizers of the march cannot reach an agreement on the
agenda. RPR-PARNAS wants the protest action to be thoroughly political. Yabloko
insists on an emphasis on protests against investment of new powers in security
structures. Preliminary reports indicate that the protest action will probably
take place on December 12, the Constitution Day in Russia.

Sergei Sharov-Delone, member of the Protest Committee, said that the march was
postponed give the opposition additional time to organize things better. "We
want this action to be associated with a maximum specific message... and that
takes time," he said.

Sharov-Deloine said that the March of Changes was going to retain its name and
its central idea. "What we need is a sharp turn in the course Russia is
following. Human rights issues are a part of the package - release of political
prisoners, economic matters, political affairs, no more wars in Syria and
Ukraine, freedom of expression, and no more laws that expand the powers wielded
by secret services."

"Organization of previous protest marches was easier because we merely responded
to the current events. Not this time when we mean to formulate the agenda,"
Sharov-Delone said.

What information is available to this newspaper indicates that it is with
RPR-PARNAS and Democratic Coalition in general that the Protest Committee cannot
reach an agreement.

"Our colleagues within the Protest Committee claim that elections legitimize the
regime and thus should be boycotted. PARNAS in the meantime intends to
participate in the future federal parliamentary campaign. It insists therefore
that the matter be made a part of the agenda at the protest action," said a
source within RPR-PARNAS.

RPR-PARNAS Assistant Chairman Konstantin Merzlikin pointed out that genuine
protests required a broader spectrum of participants. It is known in the
meantime that Anaxei Navalny's Progress Party intends to take no part in the
future protest action. Its representatives say that the municipal authorities
will never permit a protest action in central Moscow whereas protesting in the
outskirts will be pointless.

Yabloko leader Sergei Mitrokhin said that it was necessary to protest against
the "inhuman laws" that invested new powers in law-enforcement agencies. "Our
colleagues are obsessed with vague slogans on the necessity of a new regime and
so on. We believe that it is wrong and that it is necessary to be more specific
and precise in protests. Say, protests ought to be organized against the new law
on the policy that are about to be permitted to open up on people without
sufficient grounds."

Sergei Davidis, one of the December 5 Party leaders and Protest Committee
member, said that the rally might take place on December 12.

Konstantin Kalachev of the Political Expert Group pointed out that the date of
the protest was going to have no effect on the turnout. "Dedicated participants
in democratic rallies will turn up in any event on any day. As for the rest,
they are unlikely to come."

The expert backed the idea to focus the protest action on the forthcoming
federal parliamentary campaign as "quite reasonable".

National Strategy Council General Director Valery Khomyakov said that December
12 was a good choice for the protest. "The Constitution is ignored or this is
what the opposition claims. It is logical therefore to organize a protest right
on the Constitution Day."

Source: Nezavisimaya Gazeta, No 237, November 2, 2015, p. 1

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              533 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                               Eastbourne Herald

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Anti-fracking activists protest against Eastbourne bank

LENGTH: 425  words


A group of climate activists held a protest against fracking outside a branch of
Barclays Bank in Eastbourne on Saturday (October 10).

Activists from Eastbourne and District Friends of the Earth invited members of
the public in Terminus Road to sign a petition asking the bank to stop funding
exploratory shale gas drilling in the UK.

The group held its protest as the bank owns 97 per cent of Third Energy, a
company linked to fracking in North Yorkshire.

The protest came as part of a wave of protests outside branches of Barclays
organised by Friends of the Earth groups across the UK to recognise Climate Day
of Action.

A spokesman for the group said, "The protest, and the petition, was well
received by the public and is indicative of a greater general awareness of what
fracking is and what the risks are for the environment and for public health.

"There is the risk of extra carbon emissions from fracking contributing to a
worsening of climate change."

At the end of the protest the group personally delivered letters from Eastbourne
residents asking the bank to cut its fracking ties.

"This protest marks the beginning of a period of intense activity by climate
campaigners globally, and many activists from Eastbourne and District Friends of
the Earth, and other local community groups, will be on the People's Climate
March in London on November 29," added the spokesman.

"They will also be in Paris on the final weekend of the crucial UN climate talks
on December 12 and 13.

"The main message on both occasions will be that all politicians and government
leaders should take urgent action to mitigate climate change, primarily by
keeping most of our fossil fuel reserves in the ground rather than extracting
and burning them."

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage at {http://www.eastbourneherald.co.uk/|
www.eastbourneherald.co.uk/ | www.eastbourneherald.co.uk/}

2) Like our Facebook page at
{https://www.facebook.com/pages/Eastbourne-Herald-and-Gazette/116997308330416 |
Text to display | alt text}

3) Follow us on Twitter {https://twitter.com/Eastbournenews | @Eastbournenews |
@Eastbournenews}

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

The Eastbourne Herald - always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPEH


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              534 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

People protest after Friday prayers against Alam's detention

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 24 -- Peaceful protests were held at various places after Friday
prayers against the detention of Hurriyat leader Masarat Alam Bhat.

Chairman of Hurriyat-G Syed Ali Shah Geelani had Thursday called for peaceful
protest after Friday prayers to protest the detention of Alam under the Public
Safety Act (PSA) and his shifting to Kotbalwal jail in Jammu.

Peaceful protests were held at Habba AKdal, Amira Kadal and other few places of
Srinagar city. Protests were also held in Nowhatta area of downtown Srinagar,
where there were also minor stone-pelting clashes.

Reports of protests were also received from other districts of Valley.

Meanwhile, authorities had placed some senior separatist leaders including
Geelani under house-arrest

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


                              535 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Rise Of The Far-Right

SECTION: Vol. XXVIII No. 306

LENGTH: 404  words


In Dresden, the state capital of Saxony, Germany, almost 18,000 protesters
gathered to protest the 'Islamisation' of Europe, chanting nationalistic and
xenophobic slogans. The protests are organised by the group, Patriotic Europeans
Against the Islamisation of the Occident (PEGIDA), a populist movement that is
gaining momentum and spreading to other parts of Germany, incorporating neoNazis
and football hooligans along the way. Ostensibly, the movement aims to protect
the "JudeoChristian" culture of Europe, but the movement's true objection is
with the perceived loose immigration and asylum seeker laws in Germany, and
therefore all active measures proposed by the group is along those lines.
Antiimmigrant movements are not exclusive to Germany, or even this age; in times
of economic crises, discontent against the state latches on to the only visible
manifestation of lost economic opportunity: a migrant who holds the job that a
native might have held.

Throughout history, rise of the farright, antiimmigrant, nationalistic politics
has coincided with economic breakdowns. The Nazi party emerged from the shell of
Germany after the First World War just as the farright is resurfacing after the
European economic crisis. Golden Dawn in Greece, National Front in France,
United Kingdom Independence Party in the UK and the Swedish Democrats in Sweden
are all born of the same complaint, and have the same agenda. Islam just happens
to be the touchstone, the easily identifiable foe, against which protests can be
mobilised.

It is encouraging to see how the rest of Germany has responded to these
protests; antiPEGIDA protests have dwarfed the antiIslam protests. Chancellor
Angela Merkel, along with the senior leadership have come out to condemn the
"racist and xenophobic" protests. In Cologne, the city's landmark cathedral
dimmed its lights to mark its protest against PEGIDA. While majority of Germany,
and Europe for that matter views these protests as racist, they are nonetheless
gaining steam, and condemnation alone will not solve this. The solution lies in
fixing the broken international refugee regime under the International
Convention on the Rights of Refuges, which sees some countries, such as Germany,
take on more than its share of the burden. The conflict in the Middle East has
led to an outpour of refugees, and unless a fair system is developed, the
farright will continue gaining ammunition.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              536 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

PTI Karachi to block Shara-e-Faisal today

LENGTH: 380  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


In a bid to show its street power, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf has announced to
stage a protest sit-in today on Shara-e-Faisal, a major boulevard in Karachi.

"We have decided to launch a massive protest tsunami, which if the government
tried to stop, would be itself responsible for untoward consequences. We will
come out in full power tomorrow, come what may", a statement issued by the party
said.

According to sources, PTI core committee, in its meeting held, has finalized
protest demonstrations in major cities including Karachi as an extension to the
anti-government protest demonstration in Islamabad's 'Red Zone' after the party
leader Imran Khan's announcement.

"We will stage mega protest demonstrations in Lahore, Faisalabad, Multan, and
Karachi tomorrow (Saturday)", party leader Imran Khan told his workers staging
anti-government sit-in in front of Parliament House.

Laying out their protest plans, the PTI said in addition to Shara-e-Faisal
Karachi, rallies/sit-ins would be staged in Faisalabad's Zila Council Chowk,
Multan's Nawan Shehr Chowk, and Lahore to start with.

Shara-e-Faisal is one of the main thoroughfares in the metropolis and most of
the national and multinational companies' offices, schools, shopping plazas,
banks, and institutes are close to it.

Thousands of demonstrators led by Khan and Pakistan Awami Tehreek's (PAT) Dr
Tahir-ul-Qadri are camped outside the parliament building in Islamabad demanding
the prime minister step down.

More than a week of government efforts to negotiate an end to the standoff made
little headway, with Khan adamant the Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif must resign.

Khan, who had last night refused to compromise on his foremost demand of Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif's resignation in a meeting with country's powerful army
chief, said he was absolutely incredulous of former's 'assurances'.

"I don't even have an iota of trust in Nawaz Sharif's promises as he has never
been a man of his word", Khan said.

Chairman PTI  said now it was a do-or-die struggle for him as there was no
turning back from this point.

"I have made up my mind. I have only two options: 'Independence or death'. There
are no two ways about it", Khan said.

Khan also underscored that he didn't want to give this government any 'breather'
by easing his stance.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              537 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 20, 2013 Friday

RSP too sore over Cliff House protest; LDF meet today

SECTION: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

LENGTH: 363 words


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF state committee meeting to be held on Thursday will
review the ongoing Cliff House blockade protest launched by the LDF seeking the
resignation of chief minister Oommen Chandy. The meeting assumes significance as
the CPI and the RSP have made public their dissent to the mode of strike.

The CPM, however, is learnt to be adamant in continuing the protest. To
emphasize on the mode of protest and to counter charges that the common man is
at the receiving end of the protest, the CPM has organized a special blockade on
Thursday which will have women at the forefront. Women LDF volunteers from
different parts of the district will stage a blockade in front of the Cliff
House on Thursday. As if to give a strong message to dissenting LDF partners,
CPM state secretary Pinarayi Vijayan himself will reach Nanthancode to
inaugurate the day's protest. Wednesday's protest was inaugurated by CPI leader
Binoy Viswom.

Sources in the LDF said the CPI and the RSP will formally demand a change in the
ongoing mode of protest. On Tuesday, the CPI state secretariat decided to demand
a change of the protest venue as the party felt there was no point in blocking
the main road at Nanthancode in the name of blocking the Cliff House when the
chief minister roamed around freely.

On Wednesday, RSP general secretary T J Chandrachoodan came up with a stronger
criticism against the Cliff House siege. Chandrachoodan said there was no point
in insisting that one should stop the movement of others for conveying one's
demands. Commenting on how a single person could defame a massive struggle by
the LD, Chandrachoodan said, "The times have changed. There is no point in
sticking on to protests that extend for months. New modes of protests should be
devised at the age of social media", he suggested.

However, other constituents in the LDF are yet to take a decision on how to go
ahead with the protest. The Janata Dal (S) is also against the current protest
but it is not clear whether the party would raise any objection in the LDF
meeting. Other partners, Kerala Congress and Congress(S) would support whatever
stance the CPM takes.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan: CNG sector, transporters start protests in Punjab

LENGTH: 557  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Dec. 17 -- All Pakistan CNG Association (APCNGA) and transporters
will start protest demonstrations in all cities of Punjab, including the twin
cities of Rawalpindi and Islamabad, from Monday (today). Thousands of jobless
workers employed with the compressed natural gas (CNG) business and transporters
along with their families plan come out on the roads against gas disconnection.

The protest demonstrations will be staged in Rawalpindi, Gujranwala, Sialkot,
Lahore, Faisalabad, Wazirabad, Gujrat, Multan, Sahiwal and several other cities
of Punjab on Monday (today).

Chairman Supreme Council APCNGA Ghiyas Abdullah Paracha on Sunday said that in
first phase of protest, we would stage protest demonstrations in Rawalpindi,
Gujranwala, Sialkot, Lahore, Faisalabad, Wazirabad, Gujrat, Sahiwal and Multan
on a regular basis. In the second phase protest demonstrations would be held in
the other cities of the province. We will continue our protest till the
acceptance of our demands, he warned.

He said the SNGPL has suspended the supply of natural gas to the CNG sector in
Punjab for indefinite period without the approval of the government and despite
stiff opposition from the Planning Commission of Pakistan, which is illegal and
unconstitutional. The unilateral and ill-timed decision has disturbed the daily
life of million of people while posing serious threat to Rs450 billion
investments in the CNG sector, he said.

He said that unlike others the CNG sector is the only sector, which has no
alternative to the natural gas and it shuts down completely when gas supply is
suspended. The government and the CNG operators have signed an agreement for
supply of gas around the year, which is being violated, he said.

Ghiyas Paracha said that all other sectors using natural gas have option to run
on furnace oil or electricity but the government's axe falls on the CNG sector
if it decides to suspend gas supply. He said that load management means
reduction in supply and that the CNG operators will not allow complete closure
in the name of management.

The SNGPL's 'one-sided' and flawed decision, he said, has hiked the transport
fares, disturbed the daily life, encouraged black marketing of petrol and hiked
the LPG prices by Rs40 per kg.

On the one hand, he said, the government is introducing employment schemes and,
on the other, it is taking decision that will result in massive unemployment and
non-serviceability of tens of thousands

of commercial and private

vehicles.

Other leaders of the association said that our filling stations are closed all
across Punjab and there is reduced pressure in the provinces of Sindh and Khyber
Pakhtoonkhwa but the domestic consumers are still not

getting gas.

Paracha also said the CNG sector has been paying the highest tariff and maximum
taxes but it is subjected to injustices. Gas suspension has left CNG owners
unable to pay gas bills and salaries.

He said that suspension orders should be reversed, gas should be supplied to CNG
stations from 9 am to 7 pm without interruption, cases be registered against
those responsible for gas crisis and the government should honour its agreements

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              539 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

BRIEF: 255 participants of mass protests indicted in Turkey

BYLINE: Rufiz Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 194 words


Dec. 10--Around 255 participants of the mass protests in Turkey have been
indicted, Turkish Sabah newspaper reported on Dec.10 citing the sources at the
country's Prosecutor's Office.

There are seven foreign citizens among those who were accused of participation
in mass protests in various cities of Turkey, according to the newspaper.

The citizenship of the accused foreign citizens hasn't been mentioned, the
newspaper said.

Protests had been taking place in Turkey for nearly three weeks since the end of
May 2013. According to the authorities they were anti-government.

The Turkish oppositional parties accuse the police of using excessive force
against protestors.

In total, around 2.5 million people from 79 Turkish provinces participated in
protest actions during three weeks, the Turkish Interior Ministry said earlier.

As a result of the unrest in Turkey nearly 4,000 people were injured with
varying severity, 4,900 were detained by the police.

Translated by L.Z.

Edited by C.N.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131210-1AZ-BRF-255-participants-of-mass-protests
-indicted-in-Turkey-1210-20131210

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              540 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

Different protests staged outside the Hyderabad Press Club

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 170

LENGTH: 187  words


Different protest demonstrations were recorded by people in favour of their
demands outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Wednesday.

According to details, a man named Mubin Rind, resident of Bulri Shah Karim
recorded a protest demonstration against the open sale of drugs in his town. A
woman named Bachai Solangi, resident of GOR Colony staged a protest
demonstration for the recovery of her missing son named Inam Solangi. A social
worker named Aijaz Ali Memon continued his protest demonstration for the 17th
consecutive day against the acute irrigation water shortage in the province of
Sindh.

A woman named Shamim w/o Ali Mangrio, resident of Jamshoro staged a protest
demonstration for arrest of the accused men, who looted valuables from her home
and cut her hair for offering resistance. The Kolhi community people resident of
village Laung Chand led by Ramu Kolhi recorded a protest demonstration against
the occupation of their homes. The contract based employee of the SSGC named Pir
Bux Bughio, resident of Citizens' Colony staged a protest demonstration along
with his children for the regularization of his service.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              541 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday

Christian community holds countrywide protests

SECTION: Vol. V No. 68

LENGTH: 269  words


The Christian community is holding protests throughout the country against
Badami Bagh, Lahore, incident. In Lahore, the protestors completely destroyed
Yuhana Abad Metro Bus Station and set ablaze electric transformer.

Police used tear gas and rounded up some miscreants. PPP Minority Wing also held
a protest rally in front of Punjab Assembly against Badami Bagh incident.

On the other hand 5 policemen were injured in tone pelting by the protestors at
Ferozepur road. Christian community also held a protest demonstration at
Faizabad interchange Rawalpindi against the incident.

In Faisalabad, the District Aman Committee protested against the Lahore
incident. Local Islamic clerics, students and people from various walks of life
also attended the protest   demonstration. Police resorted to tear gas shelling
and aerial firing in front of Press Club to disperse the protest rally in
Karachi. The demonstrators turned violent and torched some of the vehicles and
pelted stones at police.

Protests were also reported in Mandi Bahaudin, Sargodha, Gojra, Dera Ismail
Khan, Peshawar and Gujranwala. In Sindh, Christian communities held protest
demonstrations in Karachi and Sukkur. The protesters demanded to immediately
arrest  miscreants. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif visited the
Josef Colony and directed authorities to swiftly address the grievances of the
people.

He said Badami Bagh incident is an attempt to mutilate the image of Pakistan. He
said culprits will be brought to justice. Pakistan Qaumi Masiha Party and
Pakistan Minorities League staged a protest outside Lahore Press Club on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                                 Target series

                               November 21, 2012

Immigration protest group plan event in Spalding after 'success' in Boston

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261  words


More than 300 people have attended a static protest against what they claim are
high-levels of immigration in Boston.

The Boston Protest Group claimed the "peaceful demonstration" was aimed at
highlighting the pressure put on local services by migrant workers.

Protest organiser Dean Everitt said he was pleased with the turnout: "It was a
peaceful protest. There was no trouble at all. We even had a migrant worker in
the crowd talking to the protestors. It was a really good atmosphere.

"We had a really good turnout of between 300 and 350 people.

"The council need to go back to the drawing board and rethink this."

Protestors held banners ranging from "Free Us From The Shackles of Europe" to
"Get Back Our Country.

Mr Everitt is now planning another protest in Spalding after Christmas.

The protest march was planned for last year but was cancelled after the borough
council agreed to set up a task force.

A report on population change was published as a result, but campaigners said it
had not gone 'far enough' and the Government still needed to listen.

Boston and Skegness MP Mark Simmonds said: "Freedom of speech and the right to
protest are important aspects of our society and culture. I am encouraged that
Sunday's protest remained peaceful and that attendees were able to exercise
their rights without hindrance."

The protest was organised after the publication of Boston Borough Council's
report on population change

The Social Impact of Population Change report was approved at a meeting of the
council on Monday.

It looks at issues surrounding migration in Boston.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 95


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              543 of 995 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

Different protests staged in Hyderabad

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 411

LENGTH: 413  words


Different protest demonstrations were staged by people in favor of their demands
outside the Hyderabad Press Club on Sunday.

According to details, the civil society of Hyderabad continued its hunger strike
against the LG Bill passed by the Sindh Assembly for the fourth consecutive day.
While talking to newsmen, the leaders including Punhal Sario, Zulfiqar Halepoto,
Mukhtiar Abbasi and others said that the PPP has imposed black law in Sindh to
prolong its tenure with the support of its coalition party.

They said that despite the protests by entire Sindh, the government is not ready
to amend or abolish the bill which is a sign of their insincerity towards the
people of Sindh. They said that the people of Sindh would not let anyone to
divide their motherland. Meanwhile, the activists of Labor Party Sindh led by
Comrade Mubarak Jatoi, Faiz Keerio and others recorded a protest demonstration
against the Local Government Bill 2012. Their protest was followed by another
demonstration by the social welfare organization known as the Youths' Network
for Human Rights led by Abdul Nabi Mallah and others.

They also demanded of the government to immediately abolish the LG Bill,
otherwise they have threatened to accelerate their protest circle. The residents
of Doctors' Colony Hyderabad protested against the attack on Shoukat Magsi's
house in Darzi Goth Karachi. A woman namely Farzana alias Arbab Zadi, resident
of village Tharo Khan Marri staged a protest demonstration against the
kidnapping of her husband Abdul Sattar and three children.

A woman namely Zeenat along with her son Nadir Khoso protested against the
Pabban Police for arresting Ghulam Nabi Khoso without any case. A woman namely
Bhag Bhari, resident of Shaheed Benazirabad recorded a protest demonstration
against the actions of the influential men, who have occupied her home. A woman
namely Azizan, resident of Shah Latif Colony staged a protest demonstration for
the recovery of her abducted brother Liaquat Ali. Activists of JSQM Wehdat
Colony led by Irshad Ali Junejo and others recorded a protest demonstration
against registrations of alleged fake cases against party leader Ghulam Haider
Dharejo.

Wistro community people, residents of Naushehro Feroze led by Qamaruddin Wistro
and others recorded a protest demonstration against the actions of the local
police for torching their homes. The activists of Jamaat-e-Islami led by Abdul
Waheed Qureshi and others protested against the poor sanitary system.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              544 of 995 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Analysts disagree over protest poll

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 445 words


Political analysts cannot agree on the meaning of a recent poll showing both
growing support and discontent with protests.

The latest poll by Levada Center showed that 42 percent of respondents support
the rallies that have been going on since December. It is 11 percent more than
in March and close to December's numbers, when 44 percent supported the
protests. Forty-seven percent said they were against the protests, and 11
percent could not say.

Economic problems

Some experts stress that raising tariffs, utility payments and alcohol prices
could lead to a new wave of protests, while the majority did not notice the
government's actions against the opposition.

Discontent is growing with two groups of people - one is unhappy about rising
prices, the other is unhappy about the new repressive laws, deputy head of
Levada Center Alexei Grazhdankin told Kommersant.

Grazhdankin is referring to the law that allows for the blocking of blacklisted
Internet web sites and another law that strengthens punishments for
participating in and organizing unsanctioned rallies.

People are fed up with protests

However, the figures for protests are still a bit lower than those in December,
at the peak of Russian protest activity, director general of the Institute of
Priority Regional   Projects, Nikolai Mironov, told RIA Novosti.

He argued that the population has no reason to protest because the reforms
demanded by the protesters in the end of 2011 have been implemented.

'Of course, there are a lot of unsolved problems that demand further action,
corruption, for example. But as we can see, in general in Russia these problems
do not cause protests. But the effective work of public organizations is
ongoing: demands are made, laws are written, conferences are held. Public
activity is not falling.'

He added that while there could be a rise in protest activity in September,
there would be a steady decline after that.

Higher School of Economics professor and political analyst Oleg Matveichev,
however, stressed that the number of people opposing the protests rose together
with the number of supporters, which means that the protest movement has no
future.

'I think those who say that they support it will not go to the rallies
themselves, because they are sick of going 10 times, considering the new laws
and dangers on their way,' he said.

He argued that the protests were the result of singular events - the elections
and the inauguration.

'The society is tired of protests: everyone is fed up with everybody walking
around and destabilizing the situation in the country. This is why there are
more people with a negative view of it,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved
