



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Tuesday, November 15, 2016  16:48:19 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY-RALEIGH
LIBRARY
RALEIGH, NC


Terms: ((riot) and Date(geq(01/01/2000) and leq(11/15/2016)))


Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers
Project ID:



                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

JK beats other states... in riots!

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: srinagar


srinagar, Oct. 28 -- As many as 1162 cases of riots were reported from J&K in
one year, as the Himalayan state surpassed several Indian states wherein such
incidents used to be a routine in the past.

While Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam have recorded the rate of
riots at 1.4, 2.1 and 7.6 percent respectively, Chandigarh, Goa and Gujarat have
3.2, 6.3 and 2.8 percent. In Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkand the rate of
riots has been recorded as 6.9, 5.8 and 6.6. While the central state of Madhya
Pradesh has recorded the percent of riots as mere 2.9 Maharashtra has 7.1 riots
rate and Manipur has 6.4. Mizoram, Meghalaya and Nagaland have recorded the
riots percentage as less than one percent.

On the other hand, J&K has this year topped the headlines due to the unrest that
engulfed it on July 8. The percentage of riots has gone to worrisome figures and
is leading ahead of several Indian states wherein such incidents used to be a
routine in the past.

As far as the union territories are concerned, the percent of riots in these
states also far less that what is being witnessed in Jammu and Kashmir. In
Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the percentage of riots has been recorded as 3.7
percent while as Union territory Chandigarh has 2.8 percent in its kitty. Delhi
has recorded the riots percentage as 0.6 percent. Similarly, Pondicherry has 2.6
percent of riots witnessed in one year.

Only Bihar, Karnataka and Kerala are the states that are leading ahead of Jammu
and Kashmir in terms of riots that have been witnessed there. While Bihar had
12.9 percent of riots rate, Karnataka had 10.9 and Kerala had 16.4 percent riots
rate.

According to the reports, most of the riots have been witnessed due to the
separatist violence that has been calling shots in Valley since decades. The
strike calls and protests have led to the numbers going up.

This year's rise in violence has led to the Home Ministry officials to find
nonlethal riot control options for Jammu and Kashmir.

Reports had earlier said that the authorities are looking for other alternatives
for the riot control including a smaller vehicle to mount water cannons. Such an
option is being discussed as the big water cannons like the ones used in plains
cannot be used in smaller lanes. It was informed further that before the water
canon is used the people will be warned the irritation and itching effect lasts
several days and they will be advised to disperse.

Also the long-range acoustic devices have already been deployed. The sound is so
intense that it disorients the stone pelters. The security forces are also
waiting for laser dazzler lights - which have a sudden blinding effect. Not even
wearing sunglasses would help.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Lawyer slams Rahul Gandhi over riots remark

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 184 words


NEW DELHI: Reacting to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's comments that
there were differences between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots,
senior advocate H S Phoolka - who appears for the riot victims - said that Rahul
was right that there is a difference in the Gujarat riots and the 1984 riots but
his reasons are all wrong.

"The actual difference is that in case of the Gujarat riots, all those cases
which were closed by the police were re-opened and re-investigated by the SIT.
The Congress fully supported the formation of this SIT. In a shameful display of
double standards, when it comes to the 1984 riot cases, again most of the cases
were closed by police but the Congress is not supporting the demand of formation
of SIT," said Phoolka on Tuesday.

Saying that Rahul also refrained from tendering an apology for the 1984 riots,
Phoolka said that his statement was like salt on the wounds of the victims. "If
the guilty of 1984 riots had been punished, we wouldn't have seen the riots of
Mumbai in 1993 or the riot of Gujarat in 2002...," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

How we can stop communal riots

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, Jan. 27 -- It is very painful to hear about communal riots in
Bangladesh. Riots are crime and it is much heinous when it is of communal type.
Millions of people were killed in Hindu-Muslim riots during Partition and there
seems no end to this criminality in the subcontinent even today.

Reasons for these riots are political and economic but criminals put "religious
and cultural attire" on these.

Rioting after the farcical election of January 05 is highly political. But why
do they attack these innocent people? Because, they are Hindus? Does Muslim
religion permit waging riots against anybody? And why don't they attack their
poor Muslim opponents? We know, they do that too but why so fiercely when the
targets are Hindus?

Is it impossible to find out the culprits who wage riots? Can't the ordinary
people, say a small shopkeeper or a primary school teacher of the riot-affected
area, tell you about the people who waged riots after the January 05 election?
Or, aren't there people who can tell us exactly about the people responsible for
Ramu riots of September 2012?

But it is politics and political considerations that make it impossible to bring
the culprits to justice and punish them so that they never commit such offence
in the future. Take the case of Ramu riots of September 2012. The government
arrested 300 people but no proper action has been taken as yet. Let us now
consider a few actions that government can initiate to stop communal riots:

a) A riot prevention committee for each Union Parishad and in each ward in a
town and city: This committee will be responsible to find out the criminals who
instigate and take part in riots. School teachers of each Union Parishad could
be members of fact-finding committees and they may work in close cooperation
with local administration such as Union Parishad Chairman, O.C of local police
station, Upazila chairmen and the Upazila nirbahi officer to identify culprits
and the instigators.

b. Local administration as preventers and protectors of riot victims: The local
administration will not only be the protectors of riot victims but active
preventers of riots and should be responsible for any riot under its
administration.

c. Community punishment for riots: The most effective weapon for riot prevention
will be community punishment. Everybody in an area where riot occurs shall be
held responsible and community punishment could be a weapon to combat riots.

gtmail@telia.com

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Financial Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 5, 2005

G2: Diversions: List of the day: Riots and their reasons

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 107 words


1. Gin riots London, 1743 (against raising of duty on gin)

2. Bavarian beer riots Germany, 1844 (tax on beer)

3. Lager beer riot Chicago, 1855 (closing of taverns on Sunday)

4. Portland rum riot Maine, 1855 (alcohol outlawed)

5. Cholera riots Russia, 1830-31 (anti-cholera measures)

6. Swing riots Southern England, 1830 (introduction of threshing machines)

7. Salt riot Moscow 1648 (introduction of salt tax)

8. Copper riot Moscow, 1662 (issuing of copper currency)

9. Ballet riot Paris, 1913 (opening of Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring)

10. Sydney riot Sydney, 1879 (umpiring decision in cricket match)


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      February 17, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

I am standing against the 'politics of riots': Jarnail Singh from AAP

LENGTH: 381  words


New Delhi: Jarnail Singh, who made headlines after he hurled a shoe at then
former Union Home minister P Chidambaram will now fight the Lok Sabha elections
from Aam Aadmi Party's West Delhi seat. He threw the shoe at the minister
showing his dissatisfaction over issuing of clean chit to Congress leader Sajjan
Kumar in anti-Sikh riots. For the first time he openly talked to Bhaskar Group
on the topic of politics. So we asked him a few questions about joining
politics.

What is the reason that Jarnail Singh, who wanted to serve his community is now
the Lok sabha candidate?

For the first time some government was successful in launching the SIT regarding
1984 anti-Sikh riots. Arvind Kejriwal is the first person to do it. Thus, it
felt like I am not alone against the politics of riots that's why I chose to
elect for Lok Sabha elections.

What do you mean when you say 'politics of riots'?

The meaning is clear. Whether you talk about Bhagalpur riots, 1984 Sikh riots,
Gujarat riots or Muzzafarnagar riots, the riots have not taken place during the
ruling of a single party. None of the political parties tried to stop the riots.
If timely investigation would have been ordered then further riots could have
been stopped. But every party took years to probe into riot matters and failed
to reach the culprits. This happened because for them, politics is the priority
not stopping the riots or understanding the pain of riot victims.

Don't you think that your revolutionary side will vanish away after you debut in
politics?

It is not like that. The feelings should be pure and the target should be clear.
I am a reporter and when I left my job, I was at a reputed position. Not then or
even now my target has been joining politics but to end the politics of riots.

After reporting, what will you do if you get a chance to be the Member of
Parliament?

As a reporter I have covered areas like Lok Sabha, Punjab region, Defense
Ministry, Ministry of Food Supply and political parties for more than a decade
now. I know about the expectations of a common man from different Ministries.
From working in a reputed newspaper to highlighting the emotions, I have also
been unemployed for some time. Thus, you can see that I am a common man and will
become the voice of 'Aam Aadmi' even in the house.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

11 more charged in connection with Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 239 words


Another 11 people have been charged in connection with the Stanley Cup riot,
bringing the total number charged to more than 150.

The ongoing riot probe announces charges periodically as criminal investigations
are completed, with police forwarding recommendations to Crown counsel for final
charge approval.

With the addition of 11 new suspects, the total number of riot suspects now
facing charges swell to 156.

A news release from the Criminal Justice Branch lists the new suspects facing
charges as:

? Carlos Barahona-Villeda, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? Nathan Blake, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, assault with a
weapon and possession of a weapon.

? Robert Dack, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Ioannis Kangles, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? David Leonati, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? Michael MacDonald, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Jonathan Mahoney, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, assault with a
weapon and mischief.

? Robert Timleck, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, mischief and
breach of recognizance.

? Mark Blyth, charged with taking part in a riot and mischief.

? Kevin Mercier, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Vasilios Makris, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, mischief and
break-and-enter

iaustin@theprovince.com twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

England riots: where they happened and where the suspects lived

BYLINE: Simon Rogersguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 412 words

ABSTRACT

How far did people travel to riot? This is our first attempt to map suspected
rioters with the events themselves. What does it tell us?

FULL TEXT

Did rioters commute in for the looting? That is a theory being explored by
police and politicians. And as , what information does it tell us about how the
events of those nights in early August unfolded?

An analysis of one day's court hearings by BBC  last week found 70% of those
accused of riot-related crimes had travelled from outside their area.
Communities secretary Eric Pickles has called it "riot tourism", and it is part
of the argument used by those who want to withdraw benefits and council housing
from those accused of rioting, even in a different borough.

Similarly, housing minister  said:

If someone has travelled for those riots, then the fact you have committed it in
the next-door borough or somewhere else should count equally

We have analysed over 300 records of people on riot-related charges before
English magistrates' courts to see where people lived and where the riots took
place. The maps above show - for the major events that took place in August 2011
- the effect in each city.

This is not a complete record - and is of alleged cases, some of whom pleaded
not guilty. The other caveat is that it does not show which event each suspect
is alleged to be part of. But it does show how people arrested and charged in
the days following the riots came from all over the cities affected.

The effect is particularly pronounced in Manchester, where suspects have been in
court from the suburbs of the city. In London, there is a similar effect,
although it seems to show people travelled, but not as far.

Does it tell us anything - what do you think?

· Contact us at

Key riot links

· · ·

·

More open data


World government data

·

Development and aid data

·

Can you do something with this data?

· Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our · Contact us at

· · · ·

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Modi is secular, says BJP on JD(U) meet eve

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 162  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


On the eve of the crucial JD(U) meet, alliance partner BJP on Friday asserted
that Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi was "totally secular" and highlighted
that Gujarat has witnessed no riots during the past 10 years under his regime.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.

The BJP spokesperson attacked Union minister Veerappa Moily for drawing
parallels between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots.

"Congress's efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depict that Congress has Modiphobia," Abhimanyu said adding, "Moily's
comparison of 1984 riots with 2002 Gujarat riots is mere cheating. We criticise
the remarks made by Moily."

The BJP said that while the "ruling party was involved in the 1984 riots there
was no such case in 2002 riots".

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Modi blogs again: Always opposed 2002 riots

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 259  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought to emphasise in his blog
that he had opposed the 2002 Gujarat riots and continues to do so. Modi also
sought to underline that "there cannot be different yardsticks to judge riots"
that have taken place in the country at various points of time.

"The Congress has asked Amitabh Bachchanji whether he opposes the Gujarat riots
or not. Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots and still does. Every
citizen must oppose riots. Whether it is the 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots
, 1985 Gujarat riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots.
There cannot be different standards to judge riots," Modi wrote.

The Gujarat CM also reproduced a paragraph from one of his speeches made on the
floor of the Assembly in March 2002 in the post. "Friends, after the Gujarat
2002 riots I had made a statement in Vidhan Sabha in March 2002 and I wish to
quote one para as sufficient evidence for those who are spreading lies day and
night: 'Are we not supposed to soul-search ourselves? Whether it is the Godhra
incident or post-Godhra, it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society.
These riots are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head
high. Then why is there a difference of opinion?' "

Modi added that his "painful appeal" had not been heard by those "who are bent
upon defaming Gujarat". "Any unsubstantiated criticism of the land of Gandhi,
Sardar can never be tolerated. Gujarat will give a befitting reply again and
again and again come what may," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Here's the riot squad - Redfern, Macquarie Fields, Cronulla, finally ...

BYLINE: STEVE GEE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 322  words


IT took three race riots in less than two years -- but finally we have a riot
squad.

The hand-picked squad of 50 officers, based at Ryde, will be on call 24 hours a
day.

Their new tactics will include the use of riot shields and horses to force back
lines of rioters.

A further 600 police from across the state have been trained in riot response
tactics and can be called in at any time. Eventually there will be 1200 riot
-trained police on call across the state.

Unveiling the Public Order and Riot Squad yesterday, Premier Morris Iemma denied
the squad was too little too late in the face of violent conflicts around
Sydney.

''There's riot police, tough new powers and plenty more coming in the fight to
take back control of the streets and to ensure peaceful, law-abiding citizens
can go about their business,'' Mr Iemma said.

''This is another step in our fight to take back the streets in our crackdown on
anti-social behaviour and riotous behaviour.

''The message is a simple one: If you want to riot we've got riot squads and
we've got plenty of cells in our jails to accommodate you.''

Mr Iemma denied Sydney had an ethnic gang problem, saying: ''No matter what
their ethnicity, no matter where they come from the message is a simple one --
your behaviour won't be tolerated.''

The Government announced plans to reform the riot squad -- axed in the 1980s --
after the Redfern and Macquarie Fields riots.

Deputy Police Commissioner Terry Collins said police had learned from the
experience of last year's Macquarie Fields riot, in which officers were injured
by missiles as they held their positions.

''We've gone through that. We've tried to do that softly, softly

approach, quite frankly,'' Mr Collins said.

''We'll certainly be putting large contingents -- a large field force -- of
police out there with a clear mandate to do what they need to do, not just stand
there in the line, cop molotov cocktails, cop rocks being pelted at them.''

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Mehr News Agency (MNA)

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Women enter Iran Riot Police

LENGTH: 342 words


TEHRAN, Jan. 14 (MNA) - Commander of Iran Riot Police says Women's Unit in the
Riot Police has been operational and that cavalry and SEPKA (Iran Investigation
Police Dogs) units are ready for the containing the riots. Providing comments on
the deployment of female officers in the Riot Police, Brigadier General Hassan
Karami told Mehr News that the plan for recruitment of female officers in the
Riot Police was proposed this year so that the Police would have a unit of women
operational battalion at times of crisis.  He also said that that the structural
outlines of the unit was passed and approved by the Chief of Police, and added
"the missions for the female unit in the Riot Police have been defined according
to operations in investigation, in-action, arrest, transport, and interrogation
sections."   "If we do not succeed in operationalizing the women unit this year,
for sure the first female police will start service in the Riot Police next year
[starting April]," asserted the Chief of the Riot Police.  He believed that
these female units receive different training and have different features, and
said that the Riot Police female officers should be physically strong and agile.

  Karami said that currently only one such unit for the recruitment of female
officers was specified, adding that "the unit can grow stronger at critical
times.

The officers must display high capabilities."  Providing comments on other Riot
Police units, Karami said that currently the Cavalry unit, a special unit for
riots, and the parachute unit, with most competent paratroopers of the Armed
Forces, operated in the units.    "The hostage rescue unit, with the most
competent forces across the country, the SEPKA unit (Iran Investigation Police
Dogs and Marches Control Police Dogs), and the Naval Unit are among other
subunits in the Riot Police," he added. Karami pointed to the operation of
disarmament and anti-terrorist units in the Riot Police and said "the special
Women Officers Unit will be added to the Riot Police by next year." MS/EA MNA
END

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 399


                        Copyright 2013 Mehr News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              13 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

Kombu Shibu denies role in Cheriyathura riot

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: THIRUVANATHAPURAM


THIRUVANATHAPURAM, May 4 -- Notoriuos criminal Shibu alias Kombu Shibu, who is
in police custody in connection with the Cheriyathura riot of 2009, gave his
statement before the judicial commission inquiring into the riot that he was not
involved in the riot and the subsequent police firing which claimed six lives.

Shibu said that on May 16, the day the riot broke out, he was involved in a
brawl at Beemapally. Following the incident, he remained confined to his house
the next day also. He said that he learned about the riot and the police firing
on May 17 only after the incidents took place.

He also said in his statement that he was framed by the police to save several
bigwigs who were behind the riot. The police had arrested Shibu accusing him of
responsible for the riots.

He had allegedly attacked a vendor at Beemapally for refusing to pay the money
demanded by him, which led to the riot between two communities in the area. The
police had also charged as many as 27 cases in connection with the riot.

Meanwhile, the police invited criticism after they took Shibu to the office of
the DCP, allegedly in violation of the law, before producing him before the
commission. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

BJP takes pamphlets on riots to mosques, silent on Gujarat 2002

BYLINE: Pragya Kaushika

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Hitting back at critics of its prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, the
Delhi BJP's minority unit has brought out a pamphlet on communal riots in the
country. It lists the riots, the number of people killed, and the party in power
at the time of the incident.

But the pamphlets, distributed in mosques across Delhi on Friday, make no
mention of the 2002 Gujarat riots. They do, however, mention three riots in
Gujarat - in 1969, 1985 and 1992 when the Congress was in power.

The pamphlets, listing riots from 1947 to the recent one in Uttar Pradesh under
Samajwadi Party rule, underline that the maximum number of communal riots took
place during Congress rule.

"Does anyone know who the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh was when communal
riots broke out in Maliana, Meerut and Moradabad? Did we hear names of chief
ministers when Gujarat saw communal riots in which many Muslims were killed? But
when we speak about agriculture development rate in Gujarat, the reply we get is
2002 communal riots. When we say that Asia's largest power plant is in Gujarat,
the reply is 2002 riots. When we say per capita income of Muslims is the highest
in Gujarat, all we hear in reply is 2002 riots. It all depends on you... whether
you want development or treason," the pamphlet states.

Atif Rashid, head of the BJP's minority morcha, said the pamphlet was brought
out ahead of the Sunday rally so that Muslims could "understand the real
issues".

"Nobody is questioning the Congress. We have seen Muslims progress under BJP
rule. People of our community should know this," Rashid said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                       April 12, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

BJP to JD(U): No riots took place in Gujarat, Narendra Modi is totally secular

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 307  words


New Delhi/Ahmedabad: Amid insistence by ally JD-U on projecting a "secular"
leader as NDA's prime ministerial candidate, BJP on Friday said Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi is "totally secular" and sought to justify it by saying
no riots took place in Gujarat during his rule.

The party also attacked the Congress saying it was suffering from "Modiphobia"
as one of its leaders raked up the 2002 Gujarat riots and drew a parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.

"Congress' efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depicts that Congress has Modiphobia," he told reporters.

He criticised Oil Minister Veerappa Moily for comparing the 1984 anti-Sikh riot
accused Jagdish Tytler with 2002 Gujarat riots and said they cannot be compared.

"Moily's comparison of 1984 riots with 2002 Gujarat riots is mere cheating. We
criticise the remarks made by Moily," he said.

He said the Supreme Court has given its go-ahead for reopening the case against
him in the anti-Sikh riots case, while there is nothing against Modi and making
such a comparison is unjustified.

"We are surprised that a person like Veerappa Moily, who has good knowledge of
law and has been a senior Central Minister, make such a comment," he said,
adding, "The whole nation knows that the Congress leaders had a direct role in
the Sikh riots."

Capt Abhimanyu said while Congress leaders have been "indicted" by various
Commissions appointed for looking into the 1984 riots against Sikhs, there is no
indictment or case made out against the Narendra Modi in the Gujarat riots that
took place in the aftermath of the Godhra incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Label Head Black

BYLINE: Adrian Pearson

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 189 words


INTRO

COMMUNITY SENTENCE RE-OFFENDER RATES

MALE

Age group: 18 to 20

Top three offences

Public Order or Riot 259

Violence-non serious 225

Theft 223

21 to 24

Theft 371

Public Order or Riot 280

Violence-non serious 238

25 to 29

Theft 345

Public Order or Riot 186

Violence-non serious 151

30 to 34

Theft 415

Public Order or Riot 131

Violence-non serious 104

35 to 39

Theft 215

Violence-non serious 62

Public Order or Riot 62

40 to 44

Theft 150

Public Order or Riot 68

Violence-non serious 41

45 to 49

Theft 59

Public Order or Riot 30

Violence-non serious 22

50+

Theft 70

Public Order or Riot 65

Violence-non serious 27

RE-OFFENDER rates.

FEMALE

18 to 20

Theft 71

Public Order or Riot 57

Violence-non serious 36

21 to 24

Theft 119

Public Order or Riot 70

Absconding or Bail Offences 22

25 to 29

Theft 190

Violence-non serious 35

Public Order or Riot 35

30 to 34

Theft 115

Public Order or Riot 32

Absconding or Bail Offences 16

35 to 39

Theft 64

Violence-non serious 15

Public Order or Riot 15

40 to 44

Theft 41

Violence-non serious 10

Public Order or Riot 5

45 to 49

Theft 21

Public Order or Riot 12

Violence-non serious 3

50+

Violence-serious 1

Other Motoring Offences 1

Public Order or Riot 1

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BOXING DAY JOURNAL SPLASH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Rahul comments on 1984 riots a 'hogwash': Akali Dal

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) slammed Rahul Gandhi for
claiming that the 1984 riots in Delhi were "different" from the 2002 Gujarat
riots.

"Total hogwash, full of hypocrisy," said senior SAD leader Naresh Gujral.

"He (Rahul) says Narendra Modi is responsible because he was the Chief Minister,
then what about his father (Rajiv Gandhi) as he was the prime minister in 1984?"
Gujral told a news channel.

"In Gujarat it was riots, in Delhi it was carnage. The government did not call
out the Army for three days, there were orders from the PM's office not to call
out the Army," he added.

"In Gujarat more than 300 people were killed in police firing against the
rioters, in Delhi there was not one shot fired...this is selective amnesia,"
Gujral said.

Rahul Gandhi in a rare television interview had acknowledged that "some Congress
men were probably involved" in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots that followed the
assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi. More than 3,000 Sikhs were
killed in the riots.

However, on the issue of bringing the guilty to justice, Rahul chose to go by
the standard line: He said, "there is a legal process through which they have
gone through."

Rahul also differentiated between the 1984 riots and the one in Gujarat in 2002.
He said, "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that
in 1984 the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child
then, I remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots.
In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong."

Asked to explain, the Congress vice president said:"I am saying that there was
difference between the 1984 riots and the riots in Gujarat. The difference was
that the Government in 1984 was trying to stop the riots, trying to stop the
killing whereas the Government in Gujarat was allowing the riots to happen."

On whether he would apologise or express regret for the 1984 riots, if someone
asked him to, Gandhi said: "First of all I wasn't involved in the riots at all.
It wasn't that I was part of it."

Asked if he would apologise on behalf of his party party, he said "Frankly I was
not in operation in the Congress party."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Barking & Dagenham Post

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday

Rioters: Criminality, pure and simple?

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 321 words


'The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition have
asked the independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel to explore why the
August riots happened, so they might be prevented from happening again.



Over the past month we have been travelling around England speaking to shop
keepers, "riot wombles" and young people about their experiences.

When we visited Barking, traders told us of the negative impact the riots have
had on their business.

We were struck by the strong community spirit from residents and the resilience
of some traders that we met on a walkabout in the affected areas.

We held a public meeting at the end of the day, where really interesting views
on the riots were shared.

However, I am determined that the panel does not fall into the trap of
concluding what caused the riots, and what we might do to prevent them from
happening again, until we have spoken to as many people as possible.

There has been no shortage of national commentary, opinion and speculation on
the riots, and these visits are really valuable in allowing us to cut through
that and actually understand them from the people who have been directly
affected.

We intend to present our interim findings to the Prime Minister, and leader of
the opposition in November and publish our final report in March - and it's
important that your voice is heard.

If you have a view on the motivation for a small minority of people to take part
in riots; why the riots happened in some areas and not others; what motivated
local people to come together to resist riots in their area or to clean up after
riots had taken place; or do you have a view on what could have been done
differently to prevent or manage the riots - we want to hear from you.

Please get in touch at riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk or on twitter,
@riotspanel.

You can write to us too at Riots Panel, 6th floor, Eland House, Bressenden
Place, SW1E 5DU.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BDP


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

Reading the Riots: we need police officers' stories

BYLINE: Tim Newburnguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 338 words

ABSTRACT

Researchers investigating last summer's riots have already spoken to more than
120 officers, but we want to hear from more

FULL TEXT

The second phase of the Reading the Riots project, examining how the police and
courts battled to contain the worst bout of civil unrest in a generation, is
well under way.

To date, researchers have interviewed more than 120 police officers from the
Met, West Midlands, Greater Manchester and Merseyside, as well as a few forces
that provided mutual aid during the disturbances. The interviews have been with
officers at all levels, from PC to chief constable.

In London, the city most seriously affected by the riots, many of the interviews
have been with senior officers, providing a fascinating insight into the command
level issues raised during the riots. Now we want to hear from more officers who
were on the frontline in the capital, both during the disturbances and in the
aftermath (via Operation Kirkin).

The interviews will be conducted by a researcher face-to-face, and will last
approximately one hour. Crucially, they will be anonymous and confidential and
have been discussed and approved with the Metropolitan police service.

The aim of the project is to give officers the chance to tell their stories in
their own words on such issues as:

· How the riots appeared to develop and spread

· The impact of different policing tactics on rioting/looting

· Officers' impressions of why the riots occurred where and when they did

· What brought the riots to an end

· Officers' assessments of their training and their preparedness for policing
major civil disturbances

· The impact of the experience of policing the riots on officers themselves

· What tactics/strategies have been used to bring offenders to justice in the
aftermath

Any officer who is willing to be interviewed please contact Catriona McGillivray
at catriona.mcgillivray@guardian.co.uk or call on 0203 3532763.

If you have any queries or concerns about the research please contact Prof Tim
Newburn via email at t.newburn@lse.ac.uk.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Modi recalls peace appeal

LENGTH: 360  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, March 31 -- Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi has blogged again,
this time to put on record that he did appeal for peace when the riots broke out
in Gujarat after the killing of 58 people in the Sabarmati Express fire at
Godhra on February 27, 2002.

In his blog posted on Tuesday evening, Modi has apparently reacted to the
Congress poser to Big B - whether he opposes the Gujarat riots. Modi said he had
not referred to any party or individual in his blog on Bachchan on Sunday but
still, the Congress felt offended and reacted angrily.

"Friends, Modi himself had opposed the riots and still does. Every citizen must
oppose riots. Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots, 1985 Gujarat
riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots. There cannot
be different standards to judge riots," the Gujarat Chief Minister wrote in his
blog.

Headlined 'Any unsubstantiated criticism of Gujarat can never be tolerated, come
what may', Modi's blog draws attention to the statement he had made in the
Assembly in March 2002 after the riots.

"Are we not supposed to soul-search ourselves? Whether it is Godhra incident or
post-Godhra, it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society. These riots
are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head high. Then why
is there a difference of opinion?" Modi quoted from his own statement made in
the Assembly in March 2002.

This paragraph from his statement in the Assembly would be sufficient evidence
for those spreading lies day and night, he wrote in the blog. "My 2002 March
statement in Gujarat Assembly is enough for the world community to understand
the truth," Modi added.

He also attached to the blog a video clipping of his appeal for peace telecast
over Doordarshan on the afternoon of March 28, 2002. The six-minute video clip
shows Modi appealing to people of Gujarat to maintain peace and show restrain.
Modi also said in the appeal, "It is our responsibility to ensure innocent lives
are not lost." Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For
more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Agra reported most riot cases in UP, Lucknow 2nd: NCRB

BYLINE: Arvind Chauhan

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 390 words


AGRA: For the fourth straight year, maintaining its distinction of being most
volatile place in the state, western UP leads in the number of riots in the
state. And, data collated from seven major cities in the state show Agra was
once again had the highest instances of riots and rate of riots in the state in
2015, with state capital Lucknow coming second.According to the Tuesday released
National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, Agra reported 219 cases of
riots in 2015, at a rate of 12.5 affected people per lakh of population. Though
it was lowest in last three years (2012- 227), (2013- 227) and (2014- 242).Riots
have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian, agrarian,
student, caste, communal and "others".In Agra a total of 51 people became victim
of clash over land property dispute followed by 47 in student's violence, while
14 people were victim of communal riot and 12 of caste conflict between SCs/STs
vs Non-SCs/STs.There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra
and Lucknow, which came in second place.

Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of 3.9, which was way below. A
total of 172 people become victim of riots in Lucknow.Meerut which came second
last year in number riots cases, stood third in the state with 112 cases at a
rate of 7.9 per lakh of population.The industrial capital of UP, Kanpur, was
fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower rate of 3.3.Varanasi, the Lok
Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29 cases of riots had
the lowest number of riots among the seven cities. The rate in Varanasi is 2.0,
which is much more than Ghaziabad (1.6). Ghaziabad reported 30 instances of
riots in 2015.Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813
cases and stood third after Bihar 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.Bihar's capital
Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725, with a rate of
35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai with 396
instances and a rate of 2.2. Patna also had the highest rate of riots in the
country.Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots
cases, in which 220 people were victim. Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in
Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GO COMPARE SENTENCES...

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 235 words


THE public have backed judges for sending out a tough message with severe
sentences to a procession of rioters and greedy looters.

A poll for The Sun backed the crackdown and 59 per cent said penalties should be
even tougher.

Guidelines to courts insist crimes carried out during anarchy on the streets
must be treated more harshly than if they were committed in isolation. Here we
compare sentences with other crimes.

0-5 MONTHS

RIOTS

PAUL Ruane, 47, got eight weeks for handling goods stolen in the Manchester
riots.

NON-RIOTS

SUPERSTAR George Michael, 48, got the same term last year for crashing his car
while on cannabis.

5-12 MONTHS

RIOTS

MODEL Shanola Smith, 22, got six months for having gum stolen during the Croydon
riots.

NON-RIOTS

KARL Gill, 45, got the same for dishonestly claiming £11,000 of his dead mum's
NHS pension.

1-2 YEARS

RIOTS

MICHAEL Gillespie-Doyle, 18, received two years for trying to steal cigs from a
store in Manchester.

NON-RIOTS

PAEDOPHILE Michael Saunders, 22, got the same for grooming a 14-yearold girl on
the web.

4 YEARS

RIOTS

BLOGGER Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, got four years for trying to incite a riot
in Northwich, Cheshire.

NON-RIOTS

HEROIN dealer Rajinder Dutt, 32, got the same jail for his part in a £10million
operation.

Do you agree that sentences for offences committed during the riots compared to
offences before should be: 59% Harsher 33% The Same 8% 8 Don't know 0% Softer 0%
Softer

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Adityanath blames Cong for riots

BYLINE: Mail Today/ New Delhi

LENGTH: 241  words


PUTTING the blame on the previous Congress government's communal agenda for
riots in Uttar Pradesh, BJP MP Yogi Adityanath has said that communal riots are
not happening in the BJP governed states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh while
the states governed by Congress and its supporting parties have been ravaged by
riots.

" This talk about 600 communal riots is totally wrong. Yes, there is a mention
of 113 riots. All these riots are result of communal agenda of previous
governments.

These riots have happened only in states ruled by Congress and its supporting
parties," Adityanath said on Aaj Tak ' s Seedhi Baat.

Speaking on ' Love Jihad' the Gorakhpur MP said that it started in 2003 in Uttar
Pradesh and the alleged gang- rape in Meerut was a result of Love Jihad.

" Love Jihad started in Kerala and then between 2003- 2007 these cases also
happened in UP. At that time there was Mulayam Singh's government. Since 2012
when SP again came to power these cases have increased. Meerut is a similar
case.

If there was no love Jihad then why are Muslim girls not marrying Hindu boys,"
he said.

On being told that there are cases of Muslim girls marrying Hindu boys, the MP
said: " that is not love Jihad but only love." The MP also asserted that the BJP
government will remove Article 370, bring Uniform Civil Code and construct Ram
Mandir as promised in the manifesto.

" These three things were part of our manifesto and it will be fulfiled," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 State Edition

Major boost to the riot squad

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 119  words


THE State Government is expected to announce major changes to the riot squad
this weekend following the fallout from the Cronulla riots.

Riot squad commander Superintendent Steve Cullen is expected to be promoted to a
newly created position as assistant commissioner in charge of public order
management.

Mr Cullen was a tactical adviser for the Cronulla riots but was not criticised
in the recent report into the riots, conducted by former assistant commissioner
Norm Hazzard.

Police sources predict the squad of almost 50 riot squad officers will soon be
boosted to 200 officers -- an increase being pushed for by the Pol-

ice Association.

Mr Cullen recently took a course on advanced public order command in England.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Seven more charged in Ft. Collins riot

BYLINE: Monte Whaley The Denver Post

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-02

LENGTH: 291 words


Seven more people have been cited for their alleged involvement in the Aug. 22
melee in Old Town Fort Collins that caused $12,000 in property damage.

The number of suspects cited is at 14, Fort Collins police spokeswoman Rita
Davis said Monday.

None of the latest people cited are Colorado State University students, Davis
said. So far, the only CSU student facing charges for the riot is 21-year-old
Landon Eugene Eskew.

Police have upgraded the charges against Eskew, who was previously cited for
obstruction of a peace officer, a Class 2 misdemeanor. Police said Eskew has now
been cited for engaging in a riot and disobedience of public safety orders under
riot conditions. Both are Class 3 misdemeanors.

The seven cited Monday are:

Austin Allen Oakes, 23, Fort Collins, obstructing a police officer (Class 2
misdemeanor) and resisting arrest (Class 2 misdemeanor);

Corey M. Simpson, 21, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot (Class 3 misdemeanor) and
disobedience of public safety orders under riot conditions (Class 3
misdemeanor);

Jessica Marie Units, 24, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot, disobedience of
public safety orders under riot conditions and obstructing a police officer;

Ryan Richard Poole, 30, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot and disobedience of
public safety order under riot conditions;

Amanda Kay Brooksmith, 23, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot and disobedience of
public safety orders under riot conditions;

Dustin Ryan Larson, 24, Fort Collins, disobedience of public safety orders under
riot conditions;

Cole Richard Livingston, 20, Fort Collins, disorderly conduct (petty offense)
and resisting arrest (Class 2 misdemeanor).

Police are working to identify others in the riot, Davis said.

Monte Whaley: 720-929-0907 or mwhaley@denverpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 2, 2013 Wednesday 9:04 PM GMT

Detention centre riot: several hurt

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 183 words


Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

BYLINE: Tom Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; GENERAL; Letters; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 735 words


Descriptionof riots

SIR, - I think you'll find that First Minister Alex Salmond was quite correct to
point out (the Press and Journal, August 11) that the riots in England should
not be described as "UK riots". From what I've heard from friends, and comments
I've seen on social-networking sites, the vast majority of Scots appear to be
very much in agreement.

If the riots had taken place in Glasgow and Edinburgh rather than London and
Birmingham, they would have been described as Scottish riots, not UK riots.

Does it not tell us something about the mindset of the UK media that when
something happens exclusively in England it is automatically a "UK" problem,
even when no such problem exists in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland?

It's interesting to note that the BBC, which started off calling them UK riots,
is now correctly calling them English riots, after complaints from elsewhere in
the UK.

Douglas Daniel,

Morningside Avenue,

Aberdeen. Making comparisons

SIR, - While the riots throughout England cannot be condoned, perhaps we ought
to put things into perspective and consider how they pale by comparison with the
mayhem David Cameron and his cronies have caused in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq and
so on.

William Burns,

Pennywell Road,

Edinburgh. Effects of turbine arrays

SIR, - Donald Trump's complaints (the Press and Journal, August 11) about the
spoiling of his new golf links' views by sea-based wind turbines are fully
justified.

His references to the permanent ruination of his golf course's coastal outlook,
damage to wildlife and wasting of the tax revenues are a much sounder account of
the effects of wind turbine arrays than are the statements by Scottish
politicians, let alone by renewables interests.

Donald Trump's developments in the north-east are constructive inward
investments, whereas the wind turbine installations represent parasitism by
developers, landowners and predominantly foreign manufacturers.

This is based on the policies of politicians who, oblivious to a bad investment
for our nation, endorse and promote damage to our land, seascapes and finances
without useful returns in electric power.

A radical review of these electricity-generating policies is needed urgently for
the preservation of the natural beauty of our land and sea and our financial
viability.

Charles Wardrop,

Viewlands Road West,

Perth. Windfarmoff the coast

SIR, - Regarding Donald Trump's laughable artist's impression showing the
11-turbine windfarm proposed to be located one-and-a-half miles from the coast,
all I can say is be careful if you go paddling off the beach, you will more than
likely bump right into one.

Sue Arber,

North Balnoon Cottage,

Forgue. SNH as bat licensing authority

SIR, - While I have every sympathy with Alison Murray being driven out of her
Culter, Aberdeen, home by bats (the Press and Journal, August 9), the real
culprit in the story is Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH).

Recently, SNH took over from local councils as the bat licensing authority in
Scotland and yet, despite having had a year to prepare for this responsibility,
SNH has yet to formulate its policy on what mitigation measures will be
permitted on developments around bat roosts. Any policy will then have to be
legally ratified and SNH still has no idea when it will be in a position to
start doing its job.

My proposed purchase of a house in Aberdeenshire recently fell through because
SNH was unable to advise on what developments would be allowed around a roost of
Daubenton's bats.

Mitigation measures can be extremely intrusive, as you have to adapt your
accommodation around the needs of each particular species of bat. In one house
in England, the bats occupy a space larger than the master bedroom.

One member of SNH's species licensing team finally advised: "If you are so
concerned about this, perhaps you should look for a less problematical
property."

What a scandalous response.

Alastair Scott,

Blackford Glen Road,

Edinburgh.

Slimming secret of the present

SIR, - I refer to the letter (the Press and Journal, August 9) headed "Slimming
secret of the past", in which it was suggested that food rationing might have
been the reason that men and women pictured in old photographs in your Past
Times section all appeared to be slim.

There is no need for rationing in current times. The cost of food should make
everyone at least seven pounds lighter by the end of this year.

Christina M. Palmer,

Carnyx,

Aultvaich,

Beauly.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

India: I had opposed post-Godhra riots, will continue to do so: Modi

LENGTH: 533  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, March 31 -- Under renewed attack over the post-Godhra riots, Gujarat
Chief Minister Narendra Modi today said he was opposed to that violence and
still denounces them.

Joining the battle with Congress over its attack on Amitabh Bachchan for
endorsing Gujarat as its brand ambassador and questioning him on the post-Godhra
violence, Modi wrote in his blog, "Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots
and still does. Every citizen must oppose riots.

"Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots, 1985 Gujarat riots or
atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots. There cannot be
different standards to judge riots."

Analysts see significance in his condemnation of the post-Godhra riots which
hardly found any mention in his public utterances in the last eight years.

However, Modi recalled that he had denounced the riots in the assembly in 2002.

He was apparently reacting to Congress spokesman Manish Tiwari's poser to
Bachchan about whether he endorsed Modi's role in the communal conflagration or
condemned it. "Does he (Bachchan) condemn the role of Narendra Modi in the 2002
Gujarat pogrom or he endorses it? What does he say about the Gujarat massacre
and fake encounters that took place since Modi took over," Tiwari had asked at a
media briefing in Delhi yesterday after Modi hit out at the Congress, saying
those opposing the film icon were "Taliban of untouchability".

"After the 2002 riots I had made a statement in Vidhan Sabha in March 2002 that
was, 'Are we not supposed to soul- search ourselves? Whether it is Godhra
incident or post-Godhra it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society.
These riots are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head
high. Then why is there a difference of opinion."

He said, "Since then my painful appeal has not been heard by those who are bent
upon defaming Gujarat nor do I foresee that it will be heard by them now.

"Any unsubstantiated criticism of the land of Gandhi, Sardar (Patel) can never
be tolerated. Gujarat will give a befitting reply again, and again and again
come what may." He went to write "Yesterday, I had written in my blog about the
new 'Talibans of untouchability'. I firmly believe that in the society, there
should be no place for untouchability," he said apparently referring to the way
Congress leaders were shunning Bachchan after the party high command reportedly
took exception to Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan sharing dais with him
at the opening of the carriageway of Bandra-Worli sea link in Mumbai recently.

Modi said what he wrote in the blog was not with reference to any party or
individual and expressed surprise over the sharp reaction it had drawn from the
Congress party.

"Yet parties like the Congress have taken it personally and felt offended. Why
has the Congress reacted in such a way as it did!!! People have to understand
the reasons behind it," he said.

"I would not like to waste my time in reacting to the friends of Congress who
have angrily reacted yesterday," Modi added. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Daily Pak Banker. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Riot control vehicle burns in Taksim square

LENGTH: 142  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Turkish riot police intervened to Taksim square on Tuesday for
the first time since demonstrations in the square became violent. One of riot
control vehicles caught fire as protestors threw Molotov cocktail on it.



While riot police moved into Taksim square to remove banners of illegal marginal
groups, clashes occurred among protestors and police. Flaring of a riot control
vehicle which police use to fire water cannon, caught on tape. Footages show
masked protestors throwing stones and Molotov cocktails on police and vehicles.

Two police officers in flared vehicle could escape without injuries while
another riot control truck extinguished the fire with water cannon.

SHOTLIST:
TURKEY, ISTANBUL, 11 JUNE 2013

VAR riot control vehicle burning
VAR of clashes
Another riot control vehicle extinguishing the burning one

DURATION: 05:50
CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Phase two of Reading the Riots: first rioters, next police and judges

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 517 words

ABSTRACT

Next the Guardian and London School of Economics will look in detail at the
communities affected by the riots and the work of the police and the courts
system following the August unrest

FULL TEXT

The interviews with 270 people directly involved in the August riots have formed
the core of the first phase of Reading the Riots, the Guardian's collaborative
study with the London School of Economics.

The second part of the research will look in greater detail at the experiences
communities affected by the riots, police officers who battled to keep control
of the streets and the criminal justice system which faced huge demand in the
aftermath of the disorder.

Next month, with continuing support from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the
Open Society Foundations, we will host a series of grassroots debates in riot
-affected cities across England.

The meetings will be open debates, organised in partnership with local community
groups and radio stations, ensuring they are opportunities for communities in
London, Birmingham, Manchester and elsewhere to express their views about the
riots.

It is important that police, too, have a platform to convey their experiences of
the disturbances. The Metropolitan police, which dealt with the largest amount
of disorder, described the riots as "unprecedented".

Employing the same methodology used with rioters - confidential interviews - we
hope to interview police officers of all ranks, not least those who risked their
lives on the front-line under testing conditions.

The story of the England riots has as much to do with their aftermath, and in
particular the response by the courts system.

More than 4,000 people have been arrested in connection with the riots; by
mid-October, close to 2,000 people had been charged and over 600 had reached a
final outcome.

At the height of disorder, courts were required to work under unusual
circumstances, with all night court sittings required to cope with the sheer
number of defendants. The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, who
visited Highbury magistrates court during one of the night sittings, was among
the many who praised the criminal justice system for its handling of riot cases.

However the sentencing response - which has seen harsher than usual punishments
for those involved in the riots, which have been considered an "aggravating"
factor - has proved controversial.

The second phase of Reading the Riots will therefore seek to better understand
how the courts system coped in the days, weeks and months after the riots, using
interviews with judges and magistrates, as well as court staff, prosecutors and
defence lawyers.

Next week, the Guardian and LSE will host a major conference to discuss the
first phase research findings. Speakers include: Theresa May, the home
secretary, Ed Miliband, the leader of the opposition, Bernard Hogan-Howe, the
Metropolitan police commissioner, Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary,
Julia Unwin, chief executive of Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Camila
Batmanghelidjh of Kids Company.

To contact the team, email: readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Letters

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1405 words


Change police tactics, not numbers

THE decision to pour resources into Victoria Police's riot squad is disturbing
("Police riot squad to double", The Age, 16/2). When your only tool is a riot
squad, all social problems will start to look like riots.

If Chief Commissioner Ken Lay was inspired in part by watching the British riots
on television, he should realise it was not a lack of riot police that triggered
or caused those riots. An independent panel set up by the government in the
aftermath identified the widespread police practice of stopping and searching
people as a key "motivation factor" for rioters.

Another study, by the London School of Economics and The Guardian, found that
anger and frustration at the way police engage with communities was "a
significant cause of the summer riots in every major city where disorder took
place".

The Flemington & Kensington Community Legal Centre has been calling on Victoria
Police to rein in its use of stop-and-search powers, to prevent the
statistically hidden practice of racial profiling and the discriminatory
policing of communities for many years now. These simple measures would be a
cheaper, smarter and more effective response than doubling the number of riot
police.

Anthony Kelly, executive officer, Flemington & Kensington Community Legal Centre

Roots of mistrust

IF JULIA Gillard claims she was not aware of her staffers composing an
acceptance speech for the office of prime minister two weeks before the "Ides of
March", then I'm Father Christmas. However, when the team of Rudd/Gillard was
announced after the knifing of Simon Crean, I suggested to my friends that the
Labor Party had it in reverse order. If Gillard had led the party to the 2007
election, we wouldn't have this amount of distrust in her and her decisions. The
problem with Kevin Rudd was that he wanted to run his own show, not letting
cabinet colleagues in on key decisions. That is why he had to go. There is about
18 months before the next election. Come on, Labor, show some initiative and
promote Greg Combet to the "sacred" position.

Michael Higgins, Erica

Civilising influence

PEOPLE who have decided to churlishly mock Peter Slipper for his
re-establishment of ceremony and Speaker's garb need to ask: would they feel and
respond differently towards an off-duty police officer, dressed in casual
clothes, as opposed to an officer dressed in full service outfit? A uniform
sends a message of authority, distinctiveness and high expectation, which is
needed for the proper functioning of society, especially in our capital. And
judging from the televised question time, the chamber has been a lot more civil
this year, without the need for yelling "order" every few seconds.

Peter Waterhouse, Camberwell

Ordinary stories

THE comments of Bob Murphy and Barry Hall on the obsession with outing gay
football players are heartening ("Gay footballers no problem: Demetriou and
players speak up", The Age, 16/2). It's time we started celebrating the stories
of gay people who have not had a torturous passage towards acceptance. We hear a
lot about the difficult journeys, and without taking anything away from them, it
would be helpful to hear stories of gay people who just want to be people, not
novelties or stereotypes or poster boys. It might surprise some to learn just
how many such stories are out there.

Jeremy Bartlett, Essendon

Why the praise?

THE media and many celebrities are pouring forth their congratulations upon
Magda Szubanski. She is not being congratulated for saving a family from a
burning house, volunteering to work in a soup kitchen or disarming a dangerous
criminal. While Szubanski's sexuality is a matter for her (and apparently now
the rest of us), the celebration of her conduct by the media is a disgrace.

Pastor Peter Curtis, Werribee South

Ending the pain

THERE is one other real difference that gay marriage will make to society, Giles
Brewster (Letters, 16/2). Gay youth commit suicide at up to three times the rate
that straight youth do. So not only will gay people and their families feel
better about themselves, but I hope far fewer will resort to suicide. Whatever
reason people give against gay marriage, this is the one reason why I think it
must be legalised. The hurt and pain that leads to someone taking their own
life, followed by the grief and pain inflicted on their families and friends:
this must stop. Legalise gay marriage now.

Rev. Eileen Ray, Ascot Vale

Tricky techniques

I OPENED my front door to a "consumer energy liaison representative". He was
official looking with a well-laminated photo ID. Cheerfully, he told me my home
had been flagged as one which was not receiving the best deal on electricity. He
even showed me a tablet PC with my address shaded in red. This was serious, I
needed to know more.

I suggested in making such a claim he'd need to know who my carrier was, what my
arrangement was. And, if he did know such details, he would be in breach of
several privacy laws. He denied knowledge of my account but kept pointing to his
tablet, repeating my home had been highlighted.

The truth is he didn't know a thing, but he thought a knock on the door and a
dubious story (backed up with his tablet PC) would allow him to fish for
information needed to sell me another power supplier. If this is their training
I feel sorry for them, but more importantly it's deceptive and I shudder to
think how many people fall for it.

Rob McCasker, Anglesea

Missing out at home

THE commentary on the coming Gonski report correctly focuses on the education
market catering for most students: the state, private and Catholic sectors.
Unfortunately, this has sidelined another small sector - home schooling.

No one knows how many students are home-schooled, although a rough calculation
based on New Zealand figures gives a number in the tens of thousands across
Australia. NZ figures are more accurate because people are more likely to
register students there as registration results in a payment of about $800 per
student a year. And this is the point.

At $8000 currently spent on each school student in Australia, 25,000 students
schooled at home saves various governments about $200 million a year. These, say
25,000, students represent 10 large schools. If there were 10 large schools in
this country failing to receive funding, there would be an outcry.

Lex Borthwick, Burwood

Only fair to share WITHDRAWING funds from private schools won't help fix public
education problems as Dr David Zyngier suggests (Letters, 16/2). Making wealthy
people pay to send students to public schools wouldn't help either, but it would
be more equitable than Dr Zyngier's proposal because the subsidy there is 100
per cent.

The government saves 50 per cent of its education costs on every student who is
educated privately. Public education advocates should be demanding at least 60
per cent of that saving be directed to the most disadvantaged government
schools. It's a better approach than withdrawing or reducing private funding and
placing the viability of private education at risk. Dr Zingier says that without
such funding the private schools would not survive. If their viability were
eroded there would be less money available for public school students.

The answer to improving education is to regard it as part of one system and
integrate and share resources more. The private system may buck at the loss of
privilege that implies but, given their level of public funding, they should not
be allowed to fence resources off, and would benefit from sharing.

George Finlay, Balaclava

It's complicated

JIM Garnett (Letters, 16/2), international finance flows are a little more
complex than that. Banks cannot simply book a large windfall on funds owed
overseas when the Australian dollar rises because borrowing is hedged against
currency fluctuations, for good reasons. How would you react if your bank
arbitrarily increased your home loan when the currency moved the other way?
You'd quite rightly howl with outrage.

Ted Green, Epping

Steer clear

BEWARE pedestrians, cyclists and motorists - twalkers and twexters are on the
rise. They can be recognised at a distance by their robotic gait and flexed
neck. Twalkers have a hand to an ear, twexters have both arms prayer-like in
front of their chest. They appear oblivious to falling girders, potholes and
runaway trucks. Approach with caution and treat them like somnambulists. Give
them a wide berth.

Richard Yeatman, Elwood

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: BY RON TANBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

Not Just Jos [editorial]

LENGTH: 451  words


IT is defeatist to look at riots as if they were indigenous to Jos, the Plateau
State capital, which has had an unfair share of them. Riots, unrests, and
variants of them, have become common Nigerian ways of expressing their anger at
a federation that does not work.

They are also ready instruments in the hands of politicians, who use them to
surreptitiously push their self-serving agenda. Riots in Jos have hurt the city,
the people and Nigeria.

What is so special about Jos that riots must break forth so often? What issues
cause these riots? Each riot is usually a carry over of unresolved ones. The
main issue, no matter the guises, is the fight over the control of Jos.

Any attempt to bring the perpetrators of the riots to book starts another riot.
The November 2008 riot is the subject of two probes, the Justice Bola Ajibola
panel by the Plateau State Government, which has finished its work and the on
going General Emmanuel Abisoye panel of the Federal Government.

Riots date a little bit further and in the North appear to be used in furthering
religious hegemony. They have been extended to political disputes and in some
instances poorly managed ethnic relations. Some major riots - riots Jos in 1945,
Kano in 1957, most parts of northern Nigeria in 1966, Kano in 1980, Maiduguri in
1982, Jimeta in 1984, Gombe in 1985, Kaduna and Kafanchan in 1991, Bauchi,
Katsina, and Kano in 1991, Zango-Kataf in 1992, Funtua in 1993, Kano in 1994 and
2000, Kaduna Sharia riot 2001, Jos 2004, Kano 2004 and Kano 2007, Maiduguri,
Bauchi, Yobe and Kano in 2009. The losses have been estimated at over 100,000
and property worth billions of Naira.

More than 6,000 people perished in the December 1980 Maitatsine in Kano, which
spread to Yola, Maiduguri, Bauchi and Gombe. Maitatsine sects have been
regrouping under different names since then, wrecking havoc wherever they go.

Rioters target churches under the cloak of religious differences. When Muslim
sects disagree, they burn churches, and attack non-Muslims. Riots are more
political than religious.

Estimates of deaths from riots in Jos and other towns in Plateau State since
2001 are in the 4,000 mark. The

Yelwa-Shendam-Wase killings in 2002, and 2004 led to emergency rule in the
State.

No solutions would be found to the riots in Jos, or elsewhere, until those who
instigate them are punished.

There has been no conclusive implementation of the reports on riots. In fact,
some of the suspects in the 2008 Jos riot taken to Abuja have not been
prosecuted after a year.

Once a regime of impunity is established, people would exploit it - and that is
what is happening with riots in Jos, Kano, Maiduguri, Jimeta, Gombe, Kaduna,
Kafanchan, Katsina, Funtua, Yobe.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Iran riot police sets up women's unit

LENGTH: 354 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 14 January: Commander of Iran Riot Police says Women's Unit in the Riot
Police has been operational and that cavalry and SEPKA (Iran Investigation
Police Dogs) units are ready for the containing the riots.

Commenting on the deployment of female officers in the Riot Police, Brigadier
General Hasan Karami told Mehr News that the plan for recruitment of female
officers in the Riot Police was proposed this year so that the Police would have
a unit of women operational battalion at times of crisis.

He also said that that the structural outlines of the unit were approved by the
Chief of Police, and added "the missions for the female unit in the Riot Police
have been defined according to operations in investigation, in-action, arrest,
transport, and interrogation sections."

"If we do not succeed in making the women's unit operational this year, for sure
the first female police will start service in the Riot Police next year
[starting April]," asserted the Chief of the Riot Police.

He believed that these female units receive different training and have
different features, and said that the Riot Police female officers should be
physically strong and agile.

Karami said that currently only one such unit for the recruitment of female
officers was specified, adding that "the unit can grow stronger at critical
times. The officers must display high capabilities."

Commenting on other Riot Police units, Karami said that currently the Cavalry
unit, a special unit for riots, and the parachute unit, with most competent
paratroopers of the Armed Forces, operated in the units.

"The hostage rescue unit, with the most competent forces across the country, the
SEPKA unit (Iran Investigation Police Dogs and Marches Control Police Dogs), and
the Naval Unit are among other subunits in the Riot Police," he added.

Karami pointed to the operation of disarmament and anti-terrorist units in the
Riot Police and said "the special Women Officers Unit will be added to the Riot
Police by next year."

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1425 gmt 14 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Sun (Yuma, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Inmates involved in riot charged

BYLINE: James Gilbert, The Sun, Yuma, Ariz.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 512 words


Sep. 5--Felony charges have been filed against the 18 inmates who were allegedly
involved in a disturbance at the Yuma County jail last week. The inmates, who
were escorted into a courtroom inside the jail individually by two sheriff
deputies, were arraigned Tuesday before Somerton Justice of the Peace Jorge
Lozano.

Investigators with the Yuma County Sheriff's Office say the inmates planned last
week's disturbance for up to a week, passing notes and talking through their
cell walls.

The inmates flooded portions of the maximum security area of the jail by tearing
off sprinkler heads and used plastic food trays to break windows in the jail,
the sheriff's office said. Two detention officers suffered minor scrapes and
bruises.

They did an estimated $3,000 worth of damage to the jail.

The disturbance, according to sheriff's, was prompted by inmates' complaints
over food they were served in the jail.

The following inmates have been charged:

Juan Lorenzo Preciado, 21, was charged with Dangerous or Deadly Assault by a
Prisoner, Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot, Criminal
Damage, and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Jose Jesus Preciado, 25; Damien Gamboa, 23; Alex Michael Robles, 33; and Juan
Serafin Conde 26, were each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate
in a Riot, Riot, Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Also charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer were James Joseph
Moreno, 26, and Hector Jesus Rodriguez, 23.

Paul Michael Drusky, 31, Jordan Wayne Zeck, 24, and Philip Santos Hernandez, 20,
were all charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Timothy Jesse Valenzuela, 44, Richard Hernandez, 25, and Rodrigio Matus Jr., 22,
were each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Jose Conde Ochoa, 42, was charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in
a Riot, Riot, Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer, and Aggravated Assault
with Body Fluid.

Anthony Hirales Estrada, 40, and Carlos Victor Renteria, 30, and Sergio Panuco
Clark, 30, were also each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in
a Riot, Riot, Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Charges of Riot and Criminal Damage were filed against 25-year-old Samuel Albert
Golding.

All 18 inmates will have a preliminary hearing or grand jury on September 7 and
each were assigned a public defender to represent them on their new the new
charges.

To see more of The Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.yumasun.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Sun, Yuma, Ariz. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070905-YZ-Inmates-involved-in-riot-charged-0905

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YZ


                             Copyright 2007 The Sun


                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday

6 worst communal riots under UPA government

BYLINE: Apoorva Rao

LENGTH: 455  words


Tall claims of providing secular governance of the Congress lie shattered as the
country finds itself shaken again by the recent devastating example  of communal
violence in Assam. Looking at history Congress doesn't fare any better than the
Bharatiya Janata Party in preventing communal riots. Here are some of the major
events that took place under the Congress rule

2013 Muzzafarnagar riots: During the months of August and September,  riots
broke out in Muzaffarnagar district in Uttar Pradesh  that resulted in nearly 62
deaths of which 42 victims were Muslims and 20 Hindus. The riot between Hindu
Jats and Muslims was said to have been triggered by a sexual harassment incident
but in reality was an outcome of intensive communal campaigning in the state by
Hindu right wing groups.

2012 Assam riots: Kokrajhar has sadly been witness to communalism even in the
past. In 2012, July 20, riots broke out in Kokrajhar which later spread out to
the lower regions of Assam. 77 people were reported to have been killed. Around
,79,000 people from about 500 villages had to take shelter in 128 relief camps.
The riots took place between Bodo community and Bengali speaking Muslims of the
region. The clashes have their roots in the mid-nineties and peace still evades
the region as the riots continue to happen even today.

2011 Bharatpur riots: On 14 September, clashes broke between Gujjars and Meo
Muslims in Bharatpur Rajasthan. Eight people were killed and 23 were injured.
Top BJP and Congress leaders of the region were involved in the riots.

2010 Deganga riots: The Deganga riots had begun on on Monday September 6 and
continued for several days. 24 people were hurt and several houses and
properties got destroyed when clashes broke out between Hindu and Muslim
communities in the Basirhat sub-division of North 24 Parganas, about 150 km from
Kolkata.2008 Dhule riots: In October 2008, 4 people were left dead as Hindu and
Muslim communities clashed. The incident left over 200 people injured that
included 113 policemen.

2006 Aligarh riots: Riots broke out on April 5 between Hindus and Muslims over
Ram Navami celebrations. Five people were killed due to the violence

Since 1967, 15 major incidences of communal violence took place out of which ten
happened under the Congress or Congress' ally ruled region.

In the year 2013,  479 incidents of communal violence took place with 107 people
dead injuring 1,647 people including 200 policemen injured.

In 2012, there were 640 incidents of communal violence with 93 deaths. The
violence left 2,067 people injured.

Though the ruling Congress party has had no political alliance with religious
fundamentalist groups, it has consistently failed to maintain peace and
stability in the country

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Horror of August's mass riots could happen again

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 270 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across the country, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recommendations in our report."

The interim report from the panel detailed the "sometimes horrifying and tragic"
accounts of people's experiences of the disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims receive compensation quickly.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Any new riots will be about race, not jobs

BYLINE: HARRY REID

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 702 words


BRENDAN Barber, secretary general of the TUC, is usually a dignified and
restrained figure, but earlier this week he slid into uncharacteristically
rumbustious mode. Addressing  the TUC conference in Liverpool, he recalled riots
in the city almost 30 years ago and warned of a repeat. His theme was that
prolonged mass unemployment would have a devastating effect on social cohesion.

There were, indeed, riots in Liverpool in the early 1980s, with looting and
arson and frightening levels of violence. Apocalyptic  scenes were shown nightly
on television. The first riots had been in Bristol. Serious trouble erupted
later in parts of Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Leicester, Derby and Blackburn,
as well as Liverpool. Some of the most vicious rioting was in Brixton in London.

I admire much of Margaret Thatcher's record, but her reaction to the riots
showed her at her worst.

She seemed mainly concerned to fulminate against social indiscipline, and seized
on the undoubted fact that the worst riots were not always in the most run-down
areas.

Her Home Secretary, Willie Whitelaw, a more compassionate and sensitive
politician, disagreed with her approach. Eventually, Michael Heseltine was sent
to Liverpool and Lord Scarman was invited to inquire into the Brixton riots,
which were perhaps the nastiest. Scarman, significantly and correctly, dwelt on
the racial aspect but, unfortunately, his report recommended the reintroduction
of hated "Sus" laws under which people could be arrested on mere suspicion.
Police forces were issued with new anti-riot gear (which was to come in handy
during the year-long miners' strike).

Calm returned to the streets, despite Mrs Thatcher's inadequate and
unimaginative response, and the nation settled back to watch the nuptials of
Charles and Diana, in their own way a riot of falsity and fantasy.

In one respect, the then Prime Minister was right. The riots had not really been
about unemployment.

Reviewing these dangerous and violent times much later, Professor Richard Vinen,
a thoughtful historian of the Thatcher era, came to the conclusion that, pace Mr
Barber, the riots were rooted in racial conflict and excessively forceful
policing. He pointed out that many areas of very high unemployment - for
example, various parts of Scotland - witnessed no riots at all.

The first riots, in the St Paul's area of central Bristol, were without doubt
race riots. The same was true of most of the "copycat" riots that followed. Of
course, many young blacks were unemployed, but the riots were essentially the
revolt of a furious racial minority, which believed - with some justification -
that it was discriminated against by insensitive and aggressive police.

There are lessons here, though not the kind that Brendan Barber was learning. It
would be crass and irresponsible to deny the corroding effect of unemployment,
especially when it is now hitting a 14-year high. But it tends to sap the will
rather than produce explosive violence. In the summer of 1991, I was allowed to
join the People's March for Jobs across industrial Lancashire (a relatively
small march organised to mark the tenth anniversary of the great People's March
of 1981). The march ended at Liverpool, where unemployment levels were then
around 20per cent.

I spent a day on the road with the unemployed marchers, starting in downtown
Wigan.  It was  fascinating - and, in a downbeat kind of way, rewarding - to
listen to their stories. They were resigned and philoso phical. Their mood was
of quiet resentment rather than burning anger. When anger was expressed, to my
surprise it was directed against the trade unions. I was told that the fewer
members unions had, the more officials they seemed to require. The main message
was that the unions ignored the unemployed.

If we are worried, as Mr Barber claims to be, about the possibility of renewed
rioting, we should be concerned about race more than unemployment. Current
racial tensions are of a very different nature from those of the early 1980s,
but the new tensions are even more dangerous. Just look at the website of the
so-called English Defence League. Unemployment obviously does not help social
cohesion, but it rarely leads to blood on the streets.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Droitwich Advertiser

                            November 9, 2012 Friday

Controversial riot training activity is launched in Droitwich

SECTION: ROUND-UP (DROIT NEWS ROUNDUP)

LENGTH: 323 words


A CONTROVERSIAL experience day that teaches people as young as 16 how to
successfully riot has been launched in Droitwich Spa.

Wish.co.uk, which also runs the popular Zombie Boot Camp and S.W.A.T training
days from a site in the town, has already received a number of complaints about
its latest offering.

The Riot Training experience day, which costs £79 per person to take part, has
left some people unhappy at what youngsters could learn from being involved,
especially given last year's riots across the country that saw shops looted and
people assaulted and robbed in the street.

People taking part are encouraged to experience both sides of a riot situation.
They get to play the role of both police and protagonist.

Details on the website of what to expected from the activity read: "Learn the
basics of riot control as a copper - then swap over at half time.

"On arrival at the riot training emporium, famous riots and riot police from
history will be profiled, you'll get to grips with the tactics and formations
you will be using. You'll also be trained with equipment like ballistic helmets,
visors, batons and four foot riot shields.

"All hell breaks loose - you'll stand firm as you come under a barrage of
debris, advancing forwards as smoke swirls around your waist. Brace yourselves
as petrol bombs are thrown. Noise, fire, smoke and fear are the main
ingredients."

People behind the activity have defended the event, which has not been short of
bookings since its launch two months ago, and have stressed that people are also
trained to stop a riot during the day.

Richard Kershaw, CEO of wish.co.uk, said: "We have had a number of complaints
about the riot experience day and we are aware of its controversy. People have
told us we are irresponsible for running it.

"However, we understand the concerns but also stress that the events are run in
the most professional way by an experienced team of ex-police and military
personnel."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Will win polls: Rahul Gandhi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 310  words


New Delhi, Jan 27 (IBNS): Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said he
is 'reasonably confident' that his party will win the Lok Sabha polls this year.

"Will win elections....I am reasonably confident about it (winning 2014 Lok
Sabha polls)," Rahul Gandhi told Times Now.

Rahul Gandhi, however, said he will take responsibility if his party fails to
win the Lok Sabha polls.

"As the Congress vice- president, responsibility is mine if  it loses this
election," Gandhi said.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told the
news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.

Gandhi referred to the loss of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in the 1977
general elections and said: "In 1977, when my grandmother lost the election. The
people who stood my by grandmother, were Sikhs..Pretty much everybody had
deserted my grandmother, But the Sikhs were standing with my grandmother..I
think the Sikhs are probably one of the most industrious people in this
country."

"We have a PM who is a Sikh," he said referring to Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh.

Gandhi said the Congress party is an extremely powerful system.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              This Is Local London

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Most read articles of 2011: London riot coverage dominates

SECTION: LONDONNEWS

LENGTH: 247 words


Live coverage of the London riots dominated the top 10 list of most read
articles of 2011 on This is Local London.

The minute-by-minute blogs, supplied by sister publications News Shopper and
Croydon Guardian put readers 'at the scene' with on-the-ground reporting,
eyewitness accounts, plus the latest pictures and video from the riots.

A breaking story about the shooting of Tottenham's Mark Duggan, which sparked
the riots, was the overall most read article of the year.

The top 10 most read articles on This is Local London for 2011 were:

Tottenham Hale man was shot by firearms officers after arrest attemptLondon
riots - live blogLondon's most dangerous streets revealedLIVE: Riots in Croydon
Rmours of Kingston riot unfoundedFlagship ordered to stay moored in Richmond
UPDATES: Bromley riotsElmbridge Youth Theatre to perform life of Richard Rodgers
Former boxing champ killed in cycle crashMP calls for calm after Tottenham
shooting

The top 5 most tweeted articles on the site for 2011 were:

Video of racist tirade on tram goes viralMental health trust reforms legacy of
artist's suicideCharity plans 12,000 new trees in ThamesmeadSnow forecast across
the region todayMother's plea for help with autistic son answered

The top 5 most shared articles on Facebook for 2011 were:

Dale Farm eviction: Live updatesBasildon firefighters pelted with stones while
tackling blazeDisorder hits south Essex overnightSouthend men held in Spain
accused of attempted murderPaedophile caged for 13 years

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            January 24, 2016 Sunday

Riot police system to end

LENGTH: 313 words


The riot police system, under which paramilitary police were recruited by the
Defense Ministry, will officially fade into history 45 years after it was
introduced.

The system, which has long been considered a symbol of the nation's dictatorial
rule, will be officially scrapped Monday, when a legal revision comes into
effect, the National Police Agency said.

The riot police have gradually been replaced by police conscripts, who choose to
serve their mandatory national service in the police rather than in the
military, and whose role is not officially linked to North Korea.

The riot police system was established in 1971 under the military-backed Park
Chung-hee administration, officially to combat demonstrations led by North
Korean spies. The riot police were randomly selected among military conscripts
by the Defense Ministry.

Amid the widespread anti-dictatorship sentiment, the riot police played a
central role in cracking down on rallies in the name of maintaining public
order. Their job also included managing traffic and guarding important
facilities.

The continued use of riot police, which runs as a paramilitary organization, to
confront protestors with shields, clubs and tear gas has sparked criticism from
activists.

Amid the criticism and shrinking population, the National Police Agency set up a
new scheme to recruit police conscripts upon application in 1983 to gradually
replace the riot police system.

The Defense Ministry stopped recruiting riot police in January 2012 and the last
batch of riot police were discharged in September 2013.

According to the police, the total number of riot police who completed their
service stands at nearly 33,000.

In South Korea, all the able-bodied men are required to serve the around
two-year mandatory military service as the country technically remains at war
with North Korea since the 1950-53 Korean War.

By Ock Hyun-ju (

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                          December 18, 2013 Wednesday

1984 riots not comparable with post-Godhra violence, says Amartya Sen

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 18 -- Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has said the Gujarat riots of 2002
are not comparable with the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi in 1984, rejecting Infosys
chief N R Narayanamurthy's view that the post-Godhra violence should not stand
in the way of Narendra Modi becoming Prime Minister.

While describing as "absolute shame" the fact that those responsible for the
1984 riots had not been brought to judgement, he sought to differentiate between
the 1984 riots and those that occurred in Gujarat under the watch of Chief
Minister Modi.

Sen argued that Congress leaders, Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi,
who were fighting elections, were not the people responsible for the anti-Sikh
riots. No one had accused them of that, whereas Modi was the Chief Minister when
the riots took place. Moreover, he said that the anti-Sikh riots were not
something that fitted into the Congress philosophy. "There is no philosophy of
killing Sikhs in the Congress," he told.

On the other hand, he said that treatment of Muslims in Gujarat raised the
question as to whether they were treated as second class citizens. "That is a
continuing problem," he said, adding Narayanamurthy was a great friend of his
but he did not agree with him on this issue.

Asked whether the recent Assembly poll results showed that there was a Modi wave
or more of an anti-Congress wave which he was riding, Sen replied, "I would tend
to think that there is an anti-Congress wave perhaps in the sense that the party
is exhausted. "Perhaps, in a sense, one of the big things about Modi is that any
firm leader has an advantage when the leadership problems in Congress remains
unresolved."

Asked if he thought the Congress should formally declare Rahul Gandhi as prime
ministerial candidate, Sen said, "They have to have a game strategy. Election is
not won by promising to win elections. I don't think what the Congress strategy
is at this time in winning the election."

On the rise of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Sen said he welcomed it very much although
he had been skeptical of the likelihood of its performance. "In this case there
are two reasons to be delighted-one that it has happened and second - we Indians
are unduly pessimistic and anything that demonstrates that they have gone for
optimism must be a good thing. So from both points of view I'm delighted."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

Riot Policeman Calls for Dismantling of Riot Police

BYLINE: By Bae Ji-sook

LENGTH: 396 words


Staff Reporter

A riot policeman is calling for the abolishment of the riot police system after
refusing to return to the squad following a three-day leave period and
sheltering himself in a cathedral.

He said he was forced to crack down on protestors against American beef imports
and that he did not want to finish his mandatory military service in the riot
police.

In South Korea, one can be dispatched to an ordinary military camp or the riot
police among others on a random basis by the Office of Military Manpower
Administration after being drafted.

Lee Gil-jun, a 25 year-old riot policeman of six months, said Sunday that his
conscience had got to him. "Who thought we would really have to beat people and
be taught to attack them just because of who they are and who we are? It caused
me and my fellows great pain," he said.

He said that the candlelit rallies were peaceful but his organization kept
infusing the idea that they were near riots they had to keep under control.
"Whenever I was ordered to suppress the ralliers; when they jeered at me; or
when I felt horrible about having accepted the orders, I couldn't do anything,"
he said.

"What I have learned from the whole experience is that political or state power
can put one in an unwanted situation and that one should resist such forces," he
said.

He said he would continue his struggle for the abolishment.

Being a member of the riot police is said to be one of the most stressful
positions: according to Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency, the suicide rate among
riot police has always been higher than that of the military and others. Cases
of mental disease among riot police officers are also increasing.

Lee is not the only person to protest the riot police system. Earlier in June,
Lee Gye-deok, another riot policeman, requested a transfer to the military
claiming that police work was against his political beliefs and conscience.

Currently, a number of activists such as Prof. Han Hong-koo of SungKongHoe
University, Rep. Lee Jung-hee of the minor Democratic Labor Party, lawyer Lee
Deok-woo and others are supporting Lee.

"There should be no endless sleepless nights of anguish for us," Lee said.

The former Roh Moo-hyun administration had planned to abolish the riot police
system by 2012, but recently National Police Agency Commissioner General Eo
Cheong-soo said he opposed the plan due to a lack of budget.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                Final_C Edition

Eight more charged in connection with riot

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 224  words


Charges were laid today against eight more people in connection with the June 15
riot in downtown Vancouver after the Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup
Final, police said Wednesday.

The eight face 26 charges, bringing the total number of people charged so far to
38 people and 103 charges.

Charged are:

. Eric Palmer, 26, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and break and
enter;

. Timothy Lau, 21, of Comox, charged with participating in a riot, two counts of
break and enter and six counts of mischief;

. Duncan Yee, 20, of Surrey, charged with disguise with intent and break and
enter;

. Sean Yates, 22, of Burnaby, charged with participating in a riot and
assaulting a police officer;

. Joshua Pharand, 19, of Chilliwack, charged with participating in a riot and
two counts of mischief;

. Samia Ahmed, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and two
counts of break and enter;

. Chelsea Andrews, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and break
and enter;

. Arian Anwari, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and carrying
a weapon for a dangerous purpose.

The Integrated Riot Investigation Team has recommended 278 criminal charges
against 100 suspected rioters. More charges are expected and hundreds of
pictures will be released over the next few weeks, Vancouver police stated in a
news release.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 13, 2013

Modi is totally secular, says BJP

LENGTH: 153  words


New Delhi: Amid insistence by ally JD-U on projecting a "secular" leader as
NDA's Prime Ministerial candidate, BJP today said Narendra Modi is "totally
secular" and sought to justify it by saying no riots took place in Gujarat
during his rule.



The party also attacked the Congress saying it was suffering from "Modiphobia"
as one of its leaders raked up the 2002 Gujarat riots and drew a parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.


"Congress' efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depicts that Congress has Modiphobia," he told reporters. He criticised
Oil Minister Veerappa Moily for comparing the 1984 anti-Sikh riot accused
Jagdish Tytler with Gujarat riots.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 Scots Edition

RIOT-HIT SHOPS REFUSED COMPO.. BECAUSE THERE WERE TOO FEW LOOTERS

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words


HUNDREDS of shops attacked in last summer's riots have been refused
compensation... because not enough people were involved in the mayhem.

The three-day rampage across the UK cost stores and other businesses an
estimated pounds 1billion in damage and lost sales.

Afterwards PM David Cameron gave a personal pledge in the House of Commons to
help riot-hit shops get back on their feet.

But shopkeepers in some hardhit areas have now been told local unrest didn't
qualify as a fullblown riot so they can't claim. Police chiefs have refused to
pay out under the Riot (Damages) Act, saying some incidents did not meet the
strict legal definition of a riot, which must be "12 or more people together
using or threatening violence for a common purpose."

In Leicester, newsagent Jay Popat, 50, closed early on the advice of police as
around 100 troublemakers ran amok. Thugs smashed his windows, causing pounds
1,000 of damage, and he lost a whole day of trading.

He said: "Our insurance didn't cover it. We put in a claim to the Government
riot fund but it was rejected. I don't know how many people were involved but I
would have classed it as riot. The Government and police have made it very hard
for people to claim."

Praful Chauhan, whose shoe shop in Leicester was also hit, said: "Our insurer
passed the buck to the Government and they passed the buck to the police, who
said it wasn't a riot. Anyone who saw it would say it was a riot."

But Leicestershire police authority insisted: "The criteria have not been met."

Ex-Labour minister Frank Dobson has urged Home Secretary Theresa May to step in
after shops in his Central London consitituency were also turned down. He said:
"This looked like a riot, smelled like a riot and sounded like a riot. No
mean-minded police lawyers will convince me it wasn't. The Government gave a
clear impression people would be able to claim.. and now they are trying to
weasel out of it."

More than 5,700 businesses have claimed. The Home Office says it is up to
individual police authorities to deal with them.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anarchy... looters running wild Mayhem... store in flames last summer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

Congress has apologized for 1984 riots, Modi has not for 2002: Singhvi

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 389 words


NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday said apology from the party leadership for 1984
riots set it apart from Narendra Modi who is accused of orchestrating the 2002
anti-Muslim carnage, slamming the comparison between the two parties as well as
the pogroms as "odious".

AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress
chief Sonia Gandhi had apologized for the anti-Sikh riots more than once and
that too 10 years ago. He said the Gujarat riots were different because apart
from apology, the process of reconciliation over the 12 years as well as
transfer of riot cases out of Gujarat showed that the state government was
suspect.

"There was en masse transfer of cases from Gujarat, done for the first time in
the country. That was a vote of no-confidence (in the state) else why would the
Supreme Court transfer cases," Singhvi said, adding "This was done to ensure an
impartial outcome which, it was felt, could not be had in the Modi-led Gujarat."

The Congress spokesman faced persistent questions on the issue after Rahul
Gandhi's interview to Times Now in which he dealt with the two riots.

The spokesman said terrible events like riots could not be compared because they
were all unpardonable but Congress could not be blamed for the Sikh riots like
Modi is for Gujarat riots.

Singhvi reminded that PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had reminded Modi of his "raj
dharma" during the riots, asking what was the reason for the public reprimand.

He said the 1984 riots started just after the assassination of Indira Gandhi
while in Gujarat, it was orchestrated over three days after the burning of a
train carrying kar sevaks with dead bodies handed over to organizations like
Vishwa Hindu Parishad to stoke emotions.

Praising Rahul for his interview to Times Now, Singhvi said, "Gandhi has not
only spoken and interacted. He willingly subjected himself to a no-holds barred
80-minute in-depth cross-examination and he has done it with humility." Singhvi
pointed to Rahul's emphasis on transparency as the standpoint of the interview.

In what appeared a dig at Modi, Singhvi said, "He (Rahul) is quite unlike a
number of persons in our political system who aspire for big office but are
habituated to speaking with a forked tongue, who are self-centred and have
illusions of infallibility."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Farmington Daily Times (New Mexico)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday

Farmington Riot Squad needs to settle down

BYLINE: Staff Writer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 358 words


Editor:

We geared up to watch a great game of football on Friday, Oct. 24, between
Farmington Scorps and Piedra Vista Panthers. All was going good between the
teams and it was an exciting game to attend, until about halftime. The FHS Riot
Squad members decided to go to the Piedra Vista stands to harass the fans. PV
was the away team this game.

Several kids from the Riot Squad walked over to the PV side on the track yelling
at the fans, "This is our house!" "This is our school!" Several parents got out
of the stands and asked the kids to go back to their seats and not to cause
problems.

It was then when the whole FHS Riot squad decided to join the few that started
the uproar. Two of the boys decided to break through the makeshift barrier of
parents and proceeded to tear down the signs that the PV cheerleaders posted on
the fence. The whole time this is happening, the Riot Squad was booing the PV
fans.

The police did come over and tell them to leave and they did. I was under the
impression that the Riot Squad was to boost the spirits of their fans and help
the cheerleaders cheer. I did not realize that a Riot Squad was to try to cause
a real riot with the away team.

This is not the first problem we have had with the FHS Riot Squad. During FHS
Homecoming there were several PV football players attending the game, and the PV
players were booed by the riot squad, had popcorn and other things thrown at
them and were told some things that cannot be written here. The FHS Riot Squad
should be eliminated if they choose to represent their school in that manner.

We as a community were told that the sharing of this stadium was beneficial. And
in past years it has been fine. We have supported the same-town teams in
district games. I am a graduate of FHS and have no problem supporting both
teams. I cannot understand why the mood has intensified for a full blown
rivalry.

I hope there is action taken against students that decided to show such poor
sportsmanship in our two-schools, one-stadium city. If this intensifies, we need
to consider building a more central stadium for all sporting activities in
Farmington.

HELEN TRUJILLO

Farmington

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 Farmington Daily Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

Unrest in Vietnam shatters investor confidence

BYLINE: Li Wenfang in Guangzhou and Chen Hong in Shenzhen

LENGTH: 600  words


Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 27, 2009 Monday

Communal riots, Maoist violence on the rise but Orissa peaceful: White paper

BYLINE: Debabrata Mohanty

LENGTH: 191  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Incidents of communal riots and killings of security personnel and civilians in
Orissa increased sharply in 2008, a white paper released by the Naveen Patnaik
government shows.

The white paper, however, claims that the state is "by and large peaceful".

Incidents of communal riot rose to 923 in 2008 from 73 in 2007. Kandhamal riots,
officials say, accounted for much of the increase in the registration of riot
-related FIRs-1014 FIRs were lodged following the riots and 1218 persons were
arrested. The riots, triggered by the killing of Swami Laxmanananda Saraswati
and 4 of his accomplices, had left 40 people dead.

Maoists killed 74 security personnel and 22 civilians in 56 incidents across the
state in 2008. In 2007, 15 security personnel and 2 civilians were killed in 52
incidents.

The white paper also claims that police arrested 120 Maoists, recovered 785
weapons and about 80 percent of the explosives and weapons that the Maoists had
looted from Nayagarh police armoury in February 2008.

The government, the white paper says, appointed 2100 Special Police Officers and
created four battalions of the India Reserve Police to fight the Maoists.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Verdict does not imply Modi govt complicity in riots: BJP

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 136  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Asserting that all riots were "condemnable", the BJP Wednesday sought to reject
allegations of Narendra Modi government's complicity in the 2002 Gujarat riots
despite a local court convicting a former state minister in the Naroda Patiya
case.

"I do not think so," said BJP spokesman Prakash Javadekar when asked if the
conviction of Maya Kodnani indicated BJP's complicity.

The party said it had always deplored riots. "Whether it is 1984 anti-Sikh riots
, or riots in Maharashtra, Assam or Gujarat, the BJP has always maintained that
riots are not only unfortunate and bad but also condemnable beyond doubt. We
always condemned riots anywhere," Javadekar said.

He, however, refrained from outlining the BJP's view against Kodnani, who was an
MLA at the time of the riots and later served as a minister in Modi government.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

ACTIVITIES FOR THE CLASSROOM

SECTION: HEADSTART; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 234  words


Mob violence, vandalism and looting plagued parts of London and other cities

including Liverpool, Birmingham and Bristol last week.

Questions for discussion:

What sparked the riots?

Why werent the police able to quickly stop to the riots?

What happened during the riots?

What was the Prime Ministers response to the riots?

If this was happening in your community - would it matter to you? Why?

What concerns do you have about what you have seen in the newspapers or viewed
online or on TV?

What turns people into looters?

What part did social media and mobile telecommunications play in the riots?

"I have been a witness, and my photos are my testimony. The events I have
recorded should not be forgotten and must not be repeated." James Nachtwey, US
photographer and war photographer.

"Imagine a world without photography, one could only imagine." Berenice Abbott
(1898 - 1991).

Abbott was part of the straight photography movement, which stressed the
importance of photographs being unmanipulated in both subject matter and
developing processes.

PHOTO ANALYSIS

Take a critical look at one of the news photographs published here.

Answer the following questions:

Photo selected:

Study the photograph for a few minutes. Describe exactly what you see.

Use this Venn diagram to examine the similarities and differences between the
riots in Cronulla in 2005 and last week's riots in England.

2005 Cronulla riots

2011 riots in England

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday

'Yakub hanging is justice, wish same zeal shown in 1993 riots cases': Judge who
probed Mumbai riots

BYLINE: seema chishti

LENGTH: 671  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


A day after the hanging of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict Yakub Memon,
Justice B M Srikrishna, who headed the one-man commission that inquired into the
riots that preceded the blasts in the city, said "justice according to law has
been done".

But commenting on the treatment of the riots and blasts cases, Justice
Srikrishna, in an email interview, said: "It is distressing that instead of
being looked at as incidents of crimes, the two sets of acts got dealt with
disparately depending on the communal inclinations of the state apparatus."

The Srikrishna Commission was set up by the Maharashtra government to
investigate incidents of widespread rioting from December 6 to 10, 1992 and
January 6 to 20, 1993 and damage and loss to the city during that period. One of
the terms of reference for the commission was to see if the riots and the blasts
were connected. The riots left 900 dead.

In his inquiry report, Justice Srikrishna concluded that there was one: "One
common link between the riots of December 1992 and January 1993 and bomb blasts
of 12th March 1993 appears to be that the former appear to have been a causative
factor for the latter. There does appear to be a cause and effect relationship
between the two riots and the serial bomb blasts."

On Yakub's hanging, he said: "I think justice according to law has been done.
That should provide a closure to the unnecessary controversies and avoidable
whipping up of passions all around."

He said the main reason for the difference in the treatment of the riots and
blasts cases was "state bias". "If the state is is complicit in the communal
riots, police will turn a Nelson's eye towards the real aggressors and round up
the real victims, as happened during Mumbai riots and Delhi riots.

Obviously, prosecutions also will be geared to meet the ends of state. While no
one could have objected to the zeal with which the police prosecuted the bomb
blast cases, one wishes that the same zeal had been shown in investigation and
prosecution of the riot cases. Both are crimes and what is desirable is that the
state machinery be agnostic to communal and religious factors on both
occasions."

"As long as the inherent state bias is not removed, there would be no change in
the situation," he said. "The victims of such state complicity in aggression,
therefore, looked for succour from outside and that resulted in the bomb
explosions." He termed the Mumbai bomb blasts, as a case of "history repeating
itself at enormous cost to human lives."

In his inquiry report, he had referred specifically to Tiger Memon, Yakub's
brother, as "the key figure" in the serial blasts case, and one of "his trusted
accomplices, Javed Dawood Tailor".

"Apart from these two specific cases, there was a large amorphous body of angry
frustrated and desperate Muslims keen to seek revenge for the perceived
injustice done to and atrocities perpetrated on them or to others of their
community and it is this sense of revenge which spawned the conspiracy of the
serial blasts. This body of angry frustrated and desperate Muslims provided the
material upon which the anti-national and criminal elements succeeded in
building up their conspiracy for the serial bomb blasts," the report concluded.

Justice Srikrishna says he believes in the death penalty. "I am of the view that
capital punishment must remain. When I was faced with confirmation of a death
sentence for the first time as a judge, I spent several hours debating the issue
in my mind till I came to the conclusion that it should remain. However, in a
democracy, if the will of people reflected (theoretically, at least) by law made
by Parliament decides to abolish it, so shall be it."

On the role of prosecutors in trials like these, Justice Srikrishna said: "The
role the prosecutor is to impartially place all relevant evidence before the
court to judge. Unfortunately, this is not done as impartially as required.
Prosecutors tend to go overboard for securing convictions as that gets them
greater number of feathers in their caps."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            December 26, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

There's a riot goin' on;
L.A. Riots bring their dual-DJ mix to Boulder

BYLINE: Wendy Kale kale@coloradodaily.com

SECTION: COLORADO DAILY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 487 words


If you go

Who:

L.A. Riots

When:

9 tonight

Where:

Fox Theatre, 1135 13th St.

Cost:

$10

www.foxtheatre.com

I

t's the weekend after Christmas, but that's not stopping local venues from
hosting a full slate of cool shows.

Many locals hunkered down and stayed in Boulder this holiday week. Now, they can
check out L.A. Riots at the Fox Theatre and the Motet's Talking Heads show at
the Boulder Theater.

L.A. Riots

Get ready to start your New Year's party a little early. That's because L.A.'s
premier electro dance party, aka L.A. Riots, is getting ready to invade the Fox
tonight.

L.A. Riots creates a pulsating DJ mix of electro sounds and the group is gaining
note around the globe.

The mixmasters -- Daniel LeDisko and Jo'B -- are also known for their work with
remixes. A-list acts Justice, Method Man and Timbaland regularly call on L.A.
Riots to join them in the recording studio.

"We're a pretty new act, but we've been part of the L.A. scene for six years,"
LeDisko said. "We were drum 'n' bass DJs and then we became producers.

"L.A. is ground zero for music and it's a jump-off point for electro music. So
we get to work and perform in our own backyard."

The DJs use the tracks they've re-worked for famous artists and incorporate them
into the live show.

"We use the mixes to make our own music," LeDisko said. "We've each DJ'd for 15
years and we have a definite signature sound.

"Now we're getting hit up to do remixes for all these acts and we

play all over the world."

Motet does Talking Heads

If something works, you have to stick with the plan.

Every Halloween, the Motet comes up with a new band to cover. The group's
already paid tribute to Madonna and Prince, but last October the band really hit
its stride.

The local groove outfit decided to perform its own twist on early Talking Heads
material -- and the show was the highlight of Boulder's infamous Halloween week.

The Motet will now revive the popular concert at the Boulder Theater. Saturday's
show will feature the same crew of top-rate players and the band will close out
2008 in '80s style.

"Every night of the Halloween run sold out," bandleader Dave Watts said. "It was
the perfect storm; we had waited so long to do this and people were ready for
it.

"Definitely having a great line-up of players helped. People were really excited
about the whole thing."

The top-rate players are returning for round two of the Motet's Talking Heads
show. The elite line-up features Kyle Hollingsworth of String Cheese Incident,
Fuzz from Deep Banana Blackout, Jans Ingber and Liza Oxnard.

"There might be some surprise tunes we throw in, but we feel the music worked
out so well the last time," Watts said. "We don't want to mess things up. If it
ain't broke, then don't fix it."

Watts and his band mates have future plans for their Talking Heads tribute
concert. If all goes well, the group hopes to take the show to music festivals
in 2009 and Jam Cruise 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: L.A. Riots perform tonight at the Fox Theatre. Courtesy photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     January 29, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Won't apologise for '84 riots remarks: Rahul

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 478  words


New Delhi, Jan 29 (IBNS) Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said
he will not apologise for the comments on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots,Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday

Reading Eagle, Pa., My 2 Cents column

BYLINE: Anthony Orozco, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 256 words


Dec. 21--A New York police officer used a banned chokehold to subdue Eric
Garner.

I was heartbroken to learn that officer will not have his actions adjudicated in
a court of law (even though the coroner ruled Garner's death as a homicide
caused by the chokehold and chest compression, and the incident was caught on
video).

In the wake of Garner's death, I have seen what pundits are saying about the
visceral public response to multiple recent police killings of unarmed black
boys and men.

Not only does this re-enforce my decision to not watch television, but it also
demonstrates the lack of historical context of many news outlets.

I am a pacifist. I do not condone violence, and I do not think anyone should be
punished without their day in court.

But those who say the civil rights movement was "won" solely by the pacifist
front, and that protestors today are more violent or unreasonable than in the
past, are conveniently forgetting entire segments of history. Below is a list of
events that flanked the nonviolent wing of the civil rights movement:

--Rochester riot of 1964

--New York City riot of 1964

--Philadelphia riot of 1964

--Watts riot of 1965

--Cleveland riots of 1966

--Chicago riots of 1966

--Detroit riot of 1967

--Plainfield riot of 1967

--King assassination riots in 1968 in more than 120 cities in the United States.

Contact Anthony Orozco: 610-371-5015 or aorozco@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2014 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141221-RE-Reading-Eagle-Pa-My-2-Cents-column-1221-20141221

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2014 Reading Eagle


                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 28, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

BJP slams Rahul on 84 anti-Sikh riots

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 444  words


New Delhi, Jan 28 (IBNS): While Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi in a TV
interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on the Gujarat
riots and defended his own party in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots after India
Gandhi's assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the Gandhi
scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark of his own father after
the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Photos help nab Cronulla riot suspects

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347 words


A WARILLA man has been charged and several others identified after photographs
of 20 Cronulla riot suspects were splashed across newspapers yesterday.

The photos were released by Sydney police after the 20 men failed to respond to
a police request to come forward following the December 11 riot.

Detectives attached to Strike Force Enoggera, established to investigate the
riot and the revenge attacks that followed, say the 20 are suspected of being
involved in assault, malicious damage and attacks upon emergency vehicles.

Craig Sala, 20, of Warilla, was charged with riot and affray after contacting
police yesterday.

NSW Police Minister Carl Scully said another eight men had been positively
identified and called on the remaining 11 to surrender themselves.

"I'd say to those people, save yourselves the embarrassment and turn up to a
police station," Mr Scully said.

Detective Superintendent Ken McKay, who heads Strike Force Enoggera, said he had
received a large number of calls about the photos, some being made by the
suspected rioters. "I got a couple of phone calls last night ... and they were
people who appeared in the photos," he said.

Asked if he believed the strike force would track down all 20 men, Mr McKay
said: "If I was a betting man, I'd say we'll go very close."

However, he said there had been little response to a grainy video showing a
number of Middle Eastern men throwing projectiles at passing cars.

"The members of the Middle Eastern community need to understand if they want to
live in this society, a law abiding society, the only way the police can operate
is with help," he said.

But Keysar Trad, president of the Islamic Friendship Association of Australia,
said Mr Mckay's comments were "an unfair criticism of the community".

"As a community we are sick and tired of people pointing a finger at us and
saying why aren't we doing enough," he said.

"Community leaders don't generally mix with the criminal element and we don't
recognise these people."

Mr Scully said while Islamic leaders were co-operating with police, others were
harbouring "thugs and grubs".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riot act: Detective Superintendent Ken McKay, who heads Strike
Force Enoggera, calls on the 11 remaining riot suspects to "save yourselves the
embarrassment and turn up to a police station". Picture: FAIRFAX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

HALF OF ALL RIOT DAMAGES CLAIMS ARE REJECTED

BYLINE: James Anthony, Mark Blunden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 202 words


HUNDREDS of victims of the London riots face ruin after their compensation
claims were rejected, it was revealed today.

Many families and businesses who lost everything to the looters last August said
that despite David Cameron's promise to get them "back up and running" they had
been entangled in red tape.

More than half of 4,500 claims submitted nationwide under the Riot Damages Act,
were rejected or discontinued, revealed a study from the Reading the Riots
project by the London School of Economics and the Guardian.

David Lammy, the Labour MP whose Tottenham constituency was the flashpoint of
the riots, said: "It's staggering that as we approach a year on from the riots,
these people find themselves in a situation where their businesses are closing."

More than £9.5 million has been paid out by police forces. Of the 4,558 claims
received, 1,351 were settled, 2,331 were rejected and 876 are still outstanding.

The Met received 3,487 claims, of which 1,009 were settled, 1,829 were rejected
or discontinued and 629 are ongoing. The rest it called "inactive". The force
said its payout estimate of £200 million to £300  million had been revised to
£107.2  million "based on the number of ongoing claims".

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                Final CC Edition

Miss Congeniality's lawyer suggests she's looking for a quick resolution to
case; Woman accused of looting to reappear in court on Jan. 19

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 416  words


As the first people charged with participating in the Stanley Cup riot appeared
in court Wednesday, one defence lawyer suggested his client wants to enter a
plea next month.

"She's very much looking to resolving this," lawyer David Bauer told reporters
outside court after appearing without his client, Sophie Laboisson-niere, 20.

Months before the riot, Laboissonniere won the title of Miss Congeniality at the
Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

She is accused of taking part in the looting of the London Drugs store during
the June 15 riot. She is facing charges of break-and-enter and participating in
a riot.

Her case was adjourned to Jan. 19 at 9: 30 a.m. in Vancouver Provincial Court.

The matter is scheduled for Court 102, where guilty pleas are often entered. But
Baker would not reveal how his client plans to plead.

The Crown gave notice during each of the first appearances of eight accused
rioters on Wednesday that the attorney-general wants the riot-related cases
televised.

Crown spokesman Neil MacK-enzie said outside court that he believes it is the
first time the Crown has applied to broadcast court proceedings.

One prosecutor has been assigned to handle the broad-cast applications and
another four prosecutors are assigned to handle riot cases.

Premier Christy Clark said earlier that she wants to see riot-related court
proceedings televised for the public.

The premier also said she wanted those who took part in the riot and looting to
face jail time.

So far, the Crown has approved riot-related charges against 27 people.

The Crown is still assessing another two dozen files from Vancouver police,
which recommended charges.

The riot broke out after an estimated 150,000 people gathered in downtown
Vancouver to watch the Vancouver Canucks lose Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final to
the Boston Bruins.

Rioters were caught on cam-eras torching police cars, smashing windows and
looting stores, causing millions in damage.

Here is what happened in court Wednesday with the other seven accused:

Ryan Dickinson, 20, remains in custody until his next appearance at 9 a.m.
Friday at Vancouver Provincial Court; Oliver Burke, 20, had his case adjourned
until Jan. 4, 1: 30 p.m.; Spencer Kirkwood, 25, had his case adjourned to Jan.
11 at 1: 30 p.m.; Anthony Larsen, 18, had his case adjourned until Dec. 23 at 9
a.m.; Matthew Lennox, 24, had his case adjourned to Jan. 13 at 1: 30 p.m.; and
Jeff Post, 20, had his case adjourned to Jan. 11, 9: 30 a.m., as did Robert
Snelgrove, 25.

nhall@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerry Kahrmann,  PNG; Jeff Post leaves Provincial Court on Wednesday
after appearing on charges related to the Stanley Cup riot. His case has been
adjourned to Jan. 11.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday

Russian TV shows prison riot drill of penal service special units

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of "Novosti Dnya" news report by Russian Zvezda TV, Defence Ministry
controlled, promotes patriotic values, on 6 November

[Presenter] An anti-riot drill has been held in a Russian penal colony. Riot
police were forced to use batons to restore order among prisoners. There were no
casualties, and [the police officers] got top grades. Lidiya Kuzminova reports
on an exercise of Ministry of Justice special units in Tver Region.

[Voice from loudspeaker] Prisoners, you are commanded to cease and desist their
illegal act. You are being warned about criminal liability and [the possibility
of] use of special equipment and physical force.

[Correspondent] Efforts were made at first to settle the conflict in a peaceful
way. However, negotiations ended in nothing, the riot was gathering strength.
The role of inmates was brilliantly played by officers of the Penal Service
directorate. They were throwing potatoes at riot police. The tubers had been
brought to the exercise to prevent injuries among the participants: in a real
riot, rocks are used.

[Aleksandr Zverev, head of the emergencies group of the Federal Penal Service
Directorate] The inmates quarrelled over cards and started a fight. After that
the crime bosses instigated other convicts [to take part]. This is a kind of
situation that can develop anytime. Our task is to timely prevent such emergency
situations.

[Correspondent] The negotiations failed. A water cannon had to be used to
disperse the rally. The police officers are in full riot gear, complete with
rubber batons and shields - everything is like in real life. The ringleaders of
the riot were quickly detained. However, some of them managed to hide in one of
the buildings, which was set on fire by the rioting crowd. That was the exercise
scenario. Experience shows that fires are not rare during riots.

Police contained the building where the inmates were hiding. An assault began.
It took the Rys [Lynx] riot police detachment only several minutes to detain the
remaining ringleaders. That was a successful end of the main phase of the riot.

Over 1,000 officers of the Penal Service Directorate for Tver Region took part
in the operations. Such exercises are regularly held here, but this one was as
close to reality as possible. Incidentally, this was a special drill for the Rys
detachment, which had just returned from Leningrad Region where they took part
in suppressing a real [prison] riot.

[Video shows riot police containing simulated riot]

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1000 gmt 6 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Why hot summers mean more bother for police

BYLINE:  Jack Malvern

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.4

LENGTH: 408 words


Michael Jackson entreated people not to "blame it on sunshine" in his 1978 hit
Blame it on the Boogie, but scientific research suggests that his appeal was
misguided. Decades of analysis has shown that warmer temperatures are a
contributing factor in riots, road rage and the likelihood of Swedish bus
drivers crashing.

Most of the significant riots in Britain in the 1970s and 1980s began as
temperatures soared. Tensions that might have been contained spilled over into
running battles. The Notting Hill riots of August 1976 began as thermometers
recorded 19C (66F). The Toxteth riots, in July 1981, the Brixton riots of
September 1985 and the Handsworth riots in the same month all took place as
temperatures reached 21C. Rioting returned to Toxteth during the heatwave of
October 1985, when it was 27C.

The Oldham riots of 2001 began as the temperature at night was 18C.

Riots in America follow a similar pattern. Lance Workman, head of the Psychology
Department at Bath Spa University College, has linked hot weather to levels of
serotonin in the brain, which can cause aggression. "The majority of riots in
the USA occur when temperature increases to between 27C and 32C," he said. "When
the temperature goes over 32C, however, riots level off and begin to fall
because people become so hot they can't be bothered."

Violent crimes including murder, rape and domestic violence are also more likely
in the summer, research suggests. Murder rates in New York increased by 75 per
cent in the hot summer of 1988. A 1983 study of 50,000 rapes by the US National
Institute of Mental Health found that assaults peaked in July and August across
all 16 locations studied.

Richard Michael, an American psychiatrist, found in 1986 that "violence by men
toward women increases in summer independently of any major seasonal changes in
the opportunity for contact between perpetrator and victim".

Drivers are more likely to lose their temper in the heat of their cars. Douglas
Kenrich and Steven MacFarlane, a pair of British psychologists, found that there
was a direct relationship between temperature and impatience among motorists.
Their experiment involved pulling up at a set of traffic lights and failing to
move when the lights turned green. As temperatures rose, the time taken for
drivers to honk their horns diminished.

A Swedish psychologist at Uppsala University found that bus drivers were more
likely to crash on hot days.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

Reading the riots: Q&A with Paul Lewis and Tim Newburn

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 313 words

ABSTRACT

The London School of Economics and the Guardian have been investigating the
causes and consequences of the England riots of 2011. Join our live Q&A with
journalist Paul Lewis and academic Tim Newburn from 12:30 GMT on Wednesday

FULL TEXT

Reading the Riots is an investigation into the causes and consequences of the
England riots of 2011. This week the Guardian and London School of Economics
have been releasing the findings of the first phase of the project, which
involved interviews with 270 rioters across in cities across England. The second
phase will see community debates and confidential interviews with police and
judges.

There are another three days of findings to be published, but already the
project has revealed something of what the rioters think about policing, stop
and search, consumerism, morality, gangs and the Olympics. It has studied the
relevance of poverty and analysed the political grievances of those who took to
the streets. The project has told the stories of looters who were robbed and
victims of the disorder, and shown the journey taken by rioters to the locations
of the disorder.

In total, Reading the Riots researchers collated more than 1.3 million words in
first-person accounts from rioters. Their stories paint a vivid picture of
England's most serious bout of unrest in a generation.

You can see just some of what they have to say on a range of topics in our Quote
Interactive, or listen to the voices of some of the rioters who took part in the
study, in this major film about the project, broadcast on BBC Newsnight. Here
you can read a bit more about the project and the methodology.

· From 12.30am GMT on Wednesday 7 December, the project's leaders, Paul Lewis,
the Guardian's special projects editor, and Prof Tim Newburn of the LSE, will be
live, online, answering your questions. Comments will be open on this blog from
12:15am

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday

Please-all Riot Report Won't Serve Justice

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, March 8 -- The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission, which inquired into the
2013 Muzaffarnagar riots in which over 60 people were killed, has submitted a
tame report. It blames the intelligence agencies and a few local officials for
their failure. The report specifically rules out the need to take action against
a Union minister from the area, who allegedly publicised a video, and a BSP
legislator who gave an inflammatory speech. It has also not found any fault with
the state government for the manner in which it dealt with the situation or any
leaders of the ruling party. In other words, it is a please-all report couched
in legalese. Small wonder it has disappointed those who lost their kith and kin
or property.

It is not the first time that a judicial inquiry into a communal riot has failed
to fix responsibility. Even where the inquiry named the persons responsible for
the riots as in Mumbai in 2002-03, no action was taken. In fact, inquiry
commissions are appointed to deflect attention from government failures and buy
time. Be that as it may, there is no doubt that Muzaffarnagar witnessed one of
the worst riots since Independence. Let it also be mentioned, no riot is
spontaneous. It is always orchestrated by vested interests for political
purposes. Rioters are, generally speaking, a cowardly lot and can easily be
controlled by a determined police force. It is when those in power extend a
helping hand to the rioters that riots last long and large sections of people
are affected. That is exactly what happened in Muzaffarnagar too.

Whatever may be the finding of the commission, it should not affect the riot
cases which are now in various stages of investigation or hearing. Those who
organised the riots deserve to be punished. Also, speed is of essence in
criminal investigation. Any delay in hearing will encourage potential rioters
elsewhere. Let the Muzaffarnagar riots be a test case of the ability of India's
criminal justice system to get even with rioters and their instigators,
howsoever high they may be placed. If need be, to restore confidence, the
government shouldn't shy away from ordering a CBI probe.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: CLB-2: riot control training

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Office of the Marines has issued the following news release:



 Marines with Combat Logistics Battalion 2 enhanced their non-lethal tactics
skills during riot control training at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, N.C.,
Feb. 17-19.





 The focus of the training was to teach the Marines to deescalate situations
without resorting to the use of weapons that injure or kill.



 "One of the main focuses in riot control is to control the crowd and try to
deescalate a situation using non-lethal tactics," said Cpl. Tyler S. Muscat, a
riot control instructor with 2nd Law Enforcement Battalion. "This training is
important because riots are a hot topic right now both nationally and
internationally, so you never know when you're going to have to pull these
skills out of your tool box."



 The Marines were instructed on tactics with both riot shields and holding
techniques.



 "We learned different take-down and holding techniques and also learned
different riot formations," said Lance Cpl. Mackinnly J. Lewis, a landing
support specialist and riot control student with CLB-2.



 The Marines were trained on different formations used in a riot to control the
crowd and force them to respond in an advantageous way for the Marines.



 "Riot shields are used to protect the squad and gain ground on crowds through
different formations we taught such as wedge, echelon and tactical columns,"
said Muscat.



 "We used either wedge or column formations to push the crowd back and gain
ground. We used the echelon formation to move the crowd away from a point of
interest," added Lewis.



 This training was in preparation for the unit's upcoming deployment on Special
Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force-Crisis Response-Africa, where they will act
as the Evacuation Control Center team later this year.



 "There was a lot in this training I didn't know before that will help me on
this deployment and even in the future," said Lewis. "I feel like we had very
good instructors and it was easy to pick up on. It only required practice and
practice makes perfect."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Little India riot wasn't about race

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS; Online Story

LENGTH: 157 words


MR ADRIAN Villanueva suggests the Little India riot was a racial riot ("Dealing
with unrest firmly but fairly"; Forum Online, Tuesday). He even cited the 1965
and 1969 racial riots in Singapore and how the police handled them, and touched
on the alleged United States police discrimination against African Americans.

Sadly, I have come across many Singaporeans who expressed similar views in the
aftermath of the Little India riot. These betray a poor understanding of the
matter.

Last year's Little India riot was not a racial riot even though those involved
were mostly Indians. They were foreign workers from India who were incensed by
the death of their countryman in a bus accident. They directed their anger at
anything they saw as a symbol of the establishment. They were not against any
particular race, as some Indian Singaporeans were also targeted by them.

To give the incident a racial slant does a disservice to the country.

N. Nagesh

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

'Narendra Modi is BJP and BJP is narendra modi'

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 20 -- Shahnawaz Hussain, BJP National Spokesperson and head of the
BJP Minority Morcha speaks about Narendra Modi and BJP's ideology with The New
Indian Express Editorial Director Prabhu Chawla during Teekhi Baat on IBN7.
Excerpts:

Are you a Muslim face, or BJP's face?

I am Indian, and a Muslim, am proud of both of them.

Who is your PM candidate?

Everybody knows our PM candidate is Narendrabhai.

There is a charge on Narendrabhai. Though not proven in court of law, that most
atrocities against Muslims happened in his government.

This is a Congress propaganda.

There are cases in court.

After Independence, during Nehruji, Indiraji, Rajivji's time, weak memory
Narsimha Raoji's time, so many riots have happened. During Narendra Modiji's
time, there was one riot, a train carrying karsevaks was burnt in Godhra. People
were very angry, hence a riot happened, but it was controlled. Today, after that
riot, not even one riot has happened. There is peace and harmony. Attempts are
made to malign Gujarat and BJP's name.

Congress asked for forgiveness for Operation Blue Star...

Modiji has expressed regret on issue of riots many times.

Why does he shy away from asking for forgiveness?

For what? He has already said that it was painful that the riots happened.

But he should ask for forgiveness. Sonia Gandhi asked for forgiveness. Manmohan
Singh asked for forgiveness.

They sponsored the riots. Hence, they asked for forgiveness. But we did not
sponsor the riots. Riots happened. We stopped them.

Is it good that Modi remains quiet on criminalisation of politics?

He has never remained quiet. Our party is against criminalisation. We have
strengthened our voice against it. What is the difference between party and
Narendrabhai?

Which means party is Narendrabhai and vice versa...

Yes, he is in the party and party's ideology is his ideology.

Which means BJP's thought process and Modi's thought process is the same.

How can it be different? He is party leader.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

Riot and despair

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 599 words

ABSTRACT

Unless London and its leaders make serious attempts to understand why the riots
occurred, the future does not look good

FULL TEXT

I returned from holiday last Friday and since Saturday night my feet have hardly
touched the ground. The London riots weren't far from my front door, with some
of the most serious disorder occurring just down the road from my home in
Hackney. My heart has been heavy too, partly because of the terrifying events
themselves and partly because of the response to them from politicians, which
has been trite at best and mostly self-gratifying. Some, like the worst of the
media, have gone out of their way to demonise intelligent debate about why this
devastating breakdown of the capital's social order occurred.

The people who've suffered most in recent days deserve better from their
leaders. "Criminality, pure and simple," just isn't good enough, as even those
asserting it must know. "It's the cuts," doesn't cut it either, though a feeling
among have-nots that they are being billed for the greed and misconduct of the
haves has surely fed contempt for authority in all its forms. Arguments that
parental authority has been eroded or that absent fathers explain the misconduct
of young males run up against the problem that feral youths often come from
feral homes, or that their fathers when present can be a bad influence.

There is no easy diagnosis for this disorder, and its real cure will not be some
desperate increase in police numbers or a boost to their "surge" capacity, to
use the worryingly military language David Cameron deployed in the Commons
yesterday. Does anyone really believe that the criminal subculture and
opportunist mentality that have burst from London's shadows in recent days can
simply be policed out of existence? As an uneasy calm replaces the mayhem and
admirable fellow Londoners clean up, we need to think hard about how we ended up
where we are and where we might be heading if we don't get a grip. Doing that
will require long-term commitment and a fearless application of the intellect.
Don't hold your breath.

The Guardian on the riots









London blogosphereFrom Motown of south London:

I'm really angry about ALL of those involved. Those that are causing the
trouble, have no respect for innocent people - homes and cars are being
destroyed - there can be no excuse for that. As in Walworth where the damage
didn't (during the time I was there) involve fire or damaging people's property,
the fact that shops were ransacked still made me mad. It wasn't just chains that
were targetted, independent shops were hit too, they can't afford these losses
and many will go out of business....

I'm also really annoyed with the police....Although things have definitely got
better over the years, it just seems there are so many things that could be
improved very easily...After the shooting of Mark Duggan, the truth should have
been put out straight away. Rumours were leaked to the press that he had shot at
the police first, when the police officers on the scene (and any witnesses - the
cab driver for example) knew this wasn't the case.

There's more. So .

Coming upWho knows? .

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

More needs to be done for 1984 victims: Jairam Ramesh

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Feb. 17 -- Union minister Jairam Ramesh on Sunday termed the 1984
anti-Sikh riots as a "blot" on the country and the Congress and suggested that
more needs to be done for the victims and to bring the guilty to book.

He also refused to compare the violence with the 2002 post-Godhra riots, saying
the latter were "born out of hatred" in Gujarat.

"... 1984 riots are a blot on all of us. It is a blot on the Congress, it is a
blot on the nation... 2002 riots were born out of underlying 60-year ideology of
hatred and demonization," Ramesh told Karan Thapar in his Devil's Advocate
programme on CNN-IBN.

The rural development minister said this when he was questioned about Congress
vice-president Rahul Gandhi's recent TV interview in which he drew parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots.

Rahul had said that then Congress government at the Centre had tried to stop the
riots that took place after the assassination of Indira Gandhi and Narendra
Modi's Gujarat did just opposite to it when 2002 Gujarat riots took place.

Ramesh said what Rahul stated was "completely true." "Because I was right here.
The Prime Minister was going around the city making an appeal...Army was called
in...," he said.

"I think what Mr Gandhi was saying which was refusing to acknowledge that 1984
riots was not born out of an ideology of hatred which the 2002 riots were... We
were re-elected in Punjab, we lost Punjab, we won Punjab... Sikhs voted for us,
Sikhs voted against us...," Ramesh said.

When asked whether Rahul should have apoligised for 1984 riots as Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh did, Ramesh said, "There is much to be said for an apology, there
is much to be said for ensuring the justice is meted out to the people who are
victims of 1984 riots in terms of compensation... in terms of bringing the
guilty to book..."

When repeatedly asked the same question, he said, "I can't speak on his
(Rahul's) behalf. All I am saying that the Prime Minister has apologized... the
Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) has apologised... Mr Gandhi has been to the
Golden temple..."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Cong responsible for 1984, 1989 riots; BJP for 2002: Nitish

BYLINE: Santosh Singh

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: Patna


Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Tuesday attacked the Congress and said it was
responsible for the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, and the 1989 Bhagalpur riots
in Bihar, just as BJP was responsible for the 2002 Gujarat riots.



Nitish, who has been enjoying a bonhomie with the Congress since the JD(U) split
from the NDA, attacked the Congress amidst reports of RJD and LJP striking an
alliance with the party in Bihar.

Reacting to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's TV interview in which he
spoke about the anti-Sikh riots and the Gujarat riots, Nitish said: "Just as BJP
has been responsible for 2002 Gujarat riots, Congress is responsible for 1984
riots. Congress is equally responsible for 1989 Bhagalpur riots".

Speaking on the RJD alliance, he said, "RJD and Congress share the same
political temperament and their alliance does not come as a surprise. But Rahul
Gandhi talking of tearing up and throwing ordinance (which was later withdrawn)
in his fight against graft looks all hollow now."

Centre invites Nitish for AMU function

PATNA: Under attack from the Bihar government for not informing it about AMU
branch foundation-laying ceremony on January 30, Union HRD Minister M M Pallam
Raju Tuesday extended invitation to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to atttend
the function.

The Union HRD Minister's faxed letter did not mention Bihar Education Minister P
K Shahi's correspondence with Raju. CM House sources said the Centre's
invitation arrived late and the CM had not yet taken a final call attending the
function. ENS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Mt. Druitt - St Marys Standard (Australia)

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                             1 - Mt Druitt Edition

Behind the riots

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 234  words


KAREN Therese isn't afraid to ask why.

The writer/director of The Riot Act looks at riots of the past and asks why they
occurred, in a stage performance showing at Blacktown Arts Centre from July 24.

The show focuses on the Redfern (2003) and Macquarie Fields (2004) riots and of
her memories of the 1983 Bidwill riots.

Having worked on the piece for three years, Therese said she wrote the script in
response to media coverage of the events.

``I grew up in Bidwill there was a riot in 1983 where two girls went to fight
about a boy and 1000 people turned up,'' the 36-year-old said. ``There wasn't
really much violence that day based on how many people were there. The way the
media talked about it, they were blaming the people but didn't look at the
social issues that face people in this area.

``Some kids can't read or write and don't have food on their table, and I don't
think you can just blame that on their parents.''

Therese worked extensively with residents, police, youth and social workers to
develop the play.

``I was looking at why riots happen rather than looking at the riot and the
imbalance between what some communities get in relation to support, education,
training and transport.''

The play already received rave reviews by Campbelltown critics and audiences.

The Riot Act is showing at Blacktown Arts Centre from July 2-4 at 7.30pm.
Tickets: adults $20, concession $13. Bookings: 9839 6558.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MDG


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Reading the Riots: Live Q&A with Paul Lewis

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 321 words

ABSTRACT

The Guardian's special projects editor, Paul Lewis, answers questions on the
Reading the Riots study and reporting the unrest

FULL TEXT

Over the course of the riots in England last month, the Guardian's special
projects editor, Paul Lewis, was out on the streets speaking to rioters,
residents of the affected areas and police, while tweeting the action live as
disorder spread from London to other major UK cities.

News of the events spread largely via social networking tools such as Twitter,
which Lewis used extensively throughout the August unrest, to report events as
they happened, be guided by readers as to where to go, and monitor reaction -
gaining some 35,000 followers for his raw reports and extensive coverage.

Last month, the Guardian launched a study - Reading the Riots- in conjunction
with the London School of Economics to examine the most serious bout of civil
unrest in a generation. As well as interviewing hundreds of those who took part
and were affected by the riots, the research team will conduct an advanced
analysis of more than2.5m riot-related Twitter messages. You can read more about
the study here.

On Tuesday this week, Lewis will also be giving evidence along with Professor
Tim Newburn, who is leading the LSE's involvement in the project,to the home
affairs select committee. The pair will be questioned about the research study,
its objectives and what they expect to find.

From 2pm (BST) today, Lewis will be online and able to answer your questions on
the Reading the Riots study, his reporting during the unrest, and his hopes for
the findingsin the comments section on this article.

Post you questions below and come back at 2pm to read some of Paul's answers,
the best of which we'll also be posting here.

If you were in some way involved in the riots and would like to be interviewed
for the study you can get in touch with the Reading the Riots team via
readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

UK riots aftermath: live updates

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 340 words

ABSTRACT

· US supercop warns arrests not only answer to riots· Police and prime minister
at odds over riots and reforms· Magistrates' courts continue to hold special
riot hearings· IPCC may have misled media over Duggan shooting

FULL TEXT

12.15pm: This is David Batty with live coverage of the aftermath of the riots in
several cities in England. With calm now apparently restored to the streets of
London, Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool, attention is now focused on how to
prevent a repeat of the widespread unrest and what measures should be taken
against those involved in the riots and looting of the past week.

You can follow me on Twitter @David_Batty

Here are the main recent developments:

· Abdullah Khan, the uncle of brothers Shazad Ali and Abdul Musavir, who were
struck by a car along with Haroon Jahan while guarding shops from looters in
Birmingham, has told a press conference that the family wants justice. Police
also appealed for further witnesses.

· , the prime minister's new crime adviser, US "supercop" Bill Bratton, has
warned.

·

· The historian and broadcaster .

· There is growing concern over some of the sentences handed down to those
involved in the past week's disorder. Mother-of-two Ursula Nevin, who slept
through the riots in Manchester, has been jailed for five months for accepting a
pair of looted shorts.

·

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) says it may have .

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Facing backlash, Kanhaiya Kumar forced to clarify on 1984 vs 2002 riots remark;

Criticised for seeking to distinguish between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the
2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar was forced to clarify. Here's
what he said.

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 362  words


Criticised for seeking to distinguish between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the
2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar was forced to clarify. Here's
what he said.

Facing criticism for his remarks suggesting that there was a difference between
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the 2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya
Kumar was forced to clarify his stand, now saying: "both 1984 and 2002 were
indeed state led pogroms for which justice is still awaited."

Kanhaiya, during a panel discussion on "Voices of Azaadi" at the
"Jashne-e-azaadi" festival, said: "there's a difference between Emergency and
fascism. During Emergency, goons of only one party were engaged into goondaism,
in this (fascism) entire state machinery is resorting to goondaism. There is a
difference between riots of 2002 and 1984 Sikh riots.

A day later, his colleagues in the Left movement refused to back his remarks
saying one must not draw comparisons between the two events.

"Why should a left leader try to defend the Congress
(http://indianexpress.com/tag/congress/) government's role in the anti-Sikh
riots, something that even Rahul Gandhi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/rahul-gandhi/) and his party cannot
defend?" AISA president Sucheta De, said.

Shehla Rashid, also of AISA, chose to steer clear of Kanhaiya's remarks saying
that while she wasn't present at the event where the remarks were made, "both
1984 and 2002 were acts of state sponsored violence and we must not draw
contrasts between two human tragedies."

This is what Kanhaiya had to say:

I have been misinterpreted and misrepresented yet again. There isn't an iota of
doubt that Emergency represents one of the darkest periods of Indian democracy.
My organization AISF strongly opposed and fought against the state repression
during Emergency. Both 1984 and 2002 were indeed state led pogroms for which
justice is still awaited. The current central government is relentlessly
carrying forward its fascist agenda using state power, as visible in the recent
authoritarian actions against students and all voices of dissent across the
country. What we now witness is unprecedented - a form of undeclaredemergency.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Gujarat govt responsible for 2002 riots; I am not scared of Modi: Rahul

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- Taking on Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) prime ministerial
candidate Narendra Modi, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi said Gujarat
government was involved in 2002 riots.

Speaking to an English news channel on Monday, Rahul defended the Congress
government for 1984 riots and said, "Gujarat government was involved in 2002
riots while Congress government tried to stop 1984 riots."

At the same time, he said that, "Some Congress men were probably involved in
1984 riots, legal process is on."

To questions whether he would apologise for the 1984 riots and whether he felt
that there was no need for it, Gandhi said, "First of all, I wasn't involved in
the riots at all. It wasn't that I was a part of it."

While on the topic of taking reins of the Congress party in the upcoming General
Elections, Rahul said, "I am the vice president of the party and will take full
responsibility if we (Congress) lose the elections."

When asked about the criticism heaped on him by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy,
Rahul said, "He (Swamy) has been attacking my family for 40 years. Let him take
the legal process and solve it."

While on personal criticism the Congress leader said, " I respond by
understanding why I am being attacked. Beat me to death, but I will keep asking
questions that are relevant to the system."

"It does not matter. Keep throwing stones at us. I am being attacked because I
am doing things dangerous to the system," he added.

Further while answering to a question that if not 'Gandhi' had he joined
politics, Rahul said, "Unfairness makes my blood boil. That's at the heart of my
politics."

To questions about dynasty politics, Gandhi said that he is "absolutely against
the concept of dynasty. But it happens in BJP, SP, DMK and Congress everywhere."

"I am absolutely against the concept of dynasty. Anybody who knows me knows that
and understands that. But you are not going to wish away dynasty in a closed
system. You have to open the system," Rahul added.

When asked if he agreed with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's view that Modi
presided over the "mass massacre" of innocents on the streets of Ahmedabad,
Gandhi said, "what the Prime Minister is saying is the fact. Gujarat happened
and people died."

Asked if he was avoiding a direct face-off with Modi by not becoming the Prime
Ministerial candidate of the Congress, the Congress Vice President said, "to
understand that question, you have to understand a little bit, who Rahul Gandhi
is and you get an answer to the question to what Rahul Gandhi is scared of and
not scared of."

To a question as to what was his view of BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate, he
said, "I think, we will defeat the BJP in the next elections....I will win the
election. I am reasonably confident."

He added that Congress was "battle ready" and "going to win". Asked if he would
take responsibility if Congress doesn't win the election, he said, "if we don't
win, I am the Vice President of the party. I will take responsibility."

On naming Modi as PM candidate, he said, "BJP believes in concentration of power
in one person. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe in democracy. I
believe in opening of the system.... We have fundamentally different
philosophies."

The questioner said Rahul Gandhi has avoided the whole question about whether he
was open to PM's post and avoiding a difficult contest.

In reply, Gandhi referred to his speech at the AICC meet here and said
announcing a PM candidate before an election is "announcing your PM without
asking your MPs. It is not actually written in the Constitution."

He avoided direct reply to questions on whether political parties should be
brought under the purview of RTI, saying Parliament should decide on it if
political parties are unanimous on this. "My position is that the more openness,
the better."

Asked why Congress protected former Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan
despite a judicial commission's indictment, Gandhi said the party had taken
action wherever corruption was involved.

He said he made his position clear on Chavan after the Maharashtra Cabinet had
rejected the judicial commission's findings.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Riots continue to singe volatile west UP

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 357 words


Agra: For the fourth straight year, volatile western Uttar Pradesh region has
reported maximum cases of riots in the state, shows the NCRB data. Data collated
from seven major cities in the state shows that Agra once again had the highest
instances of riots in the state in 2015, with state capital Lucknow coming
second.

Agra reported 219 cases of riots in 2015, with 12.5 affected people per lakh of
population. This was, however, the lowest in the last three years; 2012 had seen
227 such cases, 2013 the same number and 2014 had witnessed 242.

Riots have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian,
agrarian, student, caste, communal and "others".

In Agra, a total of 51 people became victims of clashes over land property
dispute followed by 47 in student violence; 14 people were victims of communal
riots and 12 of caste conflicts between SCs/STs and non-SCs/STs.

There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra and Lucknow,
which came in second place. Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of
3.9 affected.

Meerut, which reported the second highest number of riots last year, stood third
in the state with 112 cases at a rate of 7.9 per lakh affected. The industrial
capital of UP, Kanpur, was fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower
rate of 3.3 affected.

Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29
cases of riots had the lowest number among the seven major cities. The rate in
Varanasi is 2 affected per lakh of population; Ghaziabad reported 30 instances
of riots in 2015.

Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813 cases and
stood third after Bihar at 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.

Bihar's capital Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725,
with a rate of 35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai
with 396 instances and a rate of 2.2.

Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots cases, in
which 220 people were victims.

Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no
cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Riot Fest update: The show will go on

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


Sept. 08--The show will go on.

A federal lawsuit was dropped Tuesday that could have blocked Riot Fest from
holding its three-day concert in Douglas Park.

With the concert days away, there's no need to cancel your plans, music fans.

So, what happened?

Who: St. Anthony Hospital is located on 19th Street directly across from Douglas
Park. Riot Fest plans to set up stages at the southern half of Douglas Park in
close proximity to the hospital. St. Anthony Hospital sued Riot Fest.

When: Riot Fest announced its move from Humboldt Park to Douglas Park in May. On
Friday, St. Anthony Hospital filed the lawsuit against Riot Fest. At a court
appearance on Tuesday, both sides announced they reached a settlement. The fest
will go on as scheduled for Sept. 11-13.

Where: Riot Fest is now set for Douglas Park after getting shown the door by
Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) and some Humboldt Park residents who were upset
over how long it took for the park to get restored after last year's festival.
Riot Fest will be held in the area from Ogden Avenue south to 19th Street, and
Albany Avenue east to California Avenue.

Why: The lawsuit said the hospital raised concerns over anticipated noise
levels, disruption, hospital access and congestion but those concerns were
disregarded after seeing a festival map in August. The hospital got its lawyers
involved and Riot Fest changed its layout. A new map shows the main entrance at
Ogden and Sacramento Avenues with a side entrance at 18th Street and the stages
facing away from the hospital. The suit said the change did not resolve the
disruption Riot Fest would cause the hospital. Riot Fest claimed St. Anthony's
threatened them with the lawsuit unless they paid the hospital roughly $150,000.
The hospital denied the allegation and said Riot Fest broke noise abatement
promises.

What happened: Both sides reached a settlement to the lawsuit that allows Riot
Fest to stay in Douglas Park for the weekend as planned. In a joint statement,
they said, "Unfortunately, passions ran high on both sides and motivations were
questioned. Both sides regret their aggressive statements." They agreed on
compromises including the restoration of parking on 19th Street in front of the
hospital, the erection of pedestrian barricades on the west side of California
Avenue, sound monitoring within the hospital and the option to close traffic if
pedestrian and car congestion make it difficult for emergency vehicles to access
the hospital.

Chicago Tribune contributed.

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150908-1RC-Riot-Fest-update-The-show-will-go-on-20150908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

...AND ANOTHER THING

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 308 words


PERHAPS Justin Madden wasn't so bad after all. Alexandra Shabin, Woodend

Planning

DECISIONS behind closed doors based on lobbying by influential former
politicians on behalf of their party member friends stinks.

Derek Wilson, Cheltenham

BRIAN Tee, since when does the act of a developer suing the Planning Minister
mean the competency of the minister is in doubt (The Age, 15/2)?

Christine Schulz, Lara

Policing

THE riot squad nearly caused a riot when evicting the Occupiers last year. By
doubling the riot squad, they may be more successful.

Mark Bradbeer, Brunswick

IS THE Chief Commissioner expecting this year's Moomba parade to degenerate into
a free-for-all?

Bryan Fraser, St Kilda

WHY do we need more riot police? With the latest job losses, is there a fear we
will have massive riots in the street? I don't think so.

Mary Fenelon, Collingwood

SURE will be handy having an extra 60 riot police. They should be able to
persuade all those cows to stay out of the high country.

Lawry Mahon, Footscray

Health insurance

SO IT'S OK to means test the Newstart allowance and age/disability pensions, but
it's class warfare if a means test is applied to taxpayer subsidies for health
insurance.

Gary Sayer, Warrnambool

TONY Abbott promises to scrap the means test "as soon as we can" (The Age,
16/2). That's what my son says when asked to take out the rubbish, but he never
does.

Henry Herzog, St Kilda East

TONY Abbott proves "no millionaire will be left behind" with his health
insurance rebate vow.

Stephen Bickell, Dandenong North

Finally

WHY is the opposition so relentlessly negative? Easy. Force of Abbott.

Geoff Hjorth, Albert Park

FRANKIE Rowlands (Letters, 16/2) is on to it. Methinks, however, that to earn
such ire, Gillard must have not only pinched Michelle Grattan's cornflakes, but
her orange juice, eggs, coffee and morning papers too.

Gary Greenway, Northcote

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: BY RON TANBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 999 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

'Day of Blood' author to speak on 1898 Wilmington race riot at museum Sunday

BYLINE: Rodger Mullen, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words


April 13--The 1898 Wilmington race riot lasted just a day, but its effects were
felt for decades.

"It began the Jim Crow South in North Carolina," said LeRae Umfleet, author of
"A Day of Blood: the 1898 Wilmington Race Riot." "The election of 1898 resulted
in a new legislature and the first Jim Crow legislation was passed in 1899."

Umfleet, who is chief of museum collections management at the state Department
of Cultural Resources, will speak about the Nov. 10, 1898, riot Sunday at 2 p.m.
at the Museum of the Cape Fear at Bradford and Arsenal avenues.

The program is being presented in connection with Anne Frank exhibits being
offered at the Arts Council and other area venues through April, said museum
administrator David Reid. The museum is also featuring an exhibit on the riot.

"They invited other agencies to think about events that could look at
intolerance and diversity and acceptance and things like that," Reid said. "Our
thought was to do something on the Wilmington race riot. It's a topic that
people don't seem to know much about."

Reid said he also was interested in the Fayetteville connections to the riots.
The Fayetteville Light Infantry was called out to help quell the violence and
The Fayetteville Observer and other newspapers covered the riot.

Also, Fayetteville resident Charles Chesnutt wrote a book, "The Marrow of
Tradition," about the riot.

Newspaper burned

The riot began when a crowd of white men burned a black-owned newspaper.
Wilmington was a black majority town at the time, but white supremacists had
recently seized power from the locally elected government.

In the violence that followed, many blacks were killed and the Brooklyn
neighborhood was destroyed. Thousands of blacks left Wilmington, turning it into
a white majority city.

"I usually try to explain how politics can evolve into murder," Umfleet said.
"The violence in Wilmington was a result of the rhetoric of the political
campaign."

Umfleet said as many as 60 people may have been killed in the riot, although the
exact number is not known.

The riot had an immediate effect beyond Wilmington, Umfleet said. After the 1898
elections, laws were passed that barred blacks from participating fully in
society.

"Blacks began to suffer economically because blacks were fired and whites were
hired," Umfleet said. "You didn't see African-Americans having a role in
politics until after the civil rights movement in the 20th century."

Umfleet said she will sign copies of her book after the talk, which is free. She
said she hopes the talk sheds light on an overlooked piece of history.

"The victims didn't have a voice to tell their side of the story," Umfleet said.
"It sort of gets jumped over in the survey of history."

Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at mullenr@fayobserver.com or
486-3561.

___ (c)2013 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130413-FY-Day-of-Blood-author-to-speak-on-1898-Wilmington-race-riot
-at-museum-Sunday-0413-20130413

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2013 The Fayetteville Observer


                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   City A.M.

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shops bounce back in August despite effect of the riots;
RETAIL

BYLINE: TIM WALLACE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 247 words


SHOPS across London have bounced back despite last month's riots, according to a
survey released today.

While footfall across the UK fell by 1.5 percent in August,s this was the most
modest year on year decline for the month since August 2007.

And London's consumers defied the riots, with footfall in the capital increasing
by 0.9 per cent compared with August 2010.

Surprisingly, areas worst affected by the riots like Croydon saw enormous growth
of 14.9 per cent, according to the Springboard's high street index. Ealing, also
hit by riots, saw footfall spike by 9.3 per cent.

The riots had only a short term impact, according to Springboard. London saw a
decline in footfall of 6.2 per cent on the weekend of 6 August, when riots
started in Tottenham, and 1.7 per cent over the following week. By the next
weekend, though, annual footfall was up four per cent.

Nationally, the picture is more varied.

Shops in riot-hit Nottingham experienced a 7.9 per cent increase in footfall,
whilst it fell by 24.8 per cent in similarly disrupted Birmingham.

Diane Wehrle, research director at Springboard, said: "The figures showed an
initial dip as the riots struck in Greater London, but what's really positive is
that by the following weekend, shoppers were back out in force - even more so
than during the same weekend in 2010."

"The riots have affected a number of individual businesses." said Springboard
CEO Steve Booth, " yet there appears to have been little impact on overall
performance."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CAM


                            Copyright 2011 City A.M.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ABI Response to Publication of the Riot Damages Act Review

LENGTH: 250  words


New Delhi, Nov. 8 -- An independent review of the Riot (Damages) Act 1886,
commissioned by the Home Office, has been published today (November 8, 2013).



Commenting on the publication, ABI Director General, Otto Thoresen, said:

"Overall, we welcome the findings of this report, although there are several
aspects that will concern insurers and their customers.

"The riots of August 2011 highlighted both the value of insurance, with insurers
paying out over 200 million to customers, and the importance of the purpose of
the Riot Damages Act, so we welcome this report's finding that the principle of
police accountability should be retained in new legislation.

"The recommendation that insurers should continue to be able to recover from the
State certain riot payments made to customers is vital if riot cover is to be
affordable and available. And the proposal to set up a riot claims bureau will
cut down the current bureaucratic process to ensure that uninsured riot victims
receive compensation much quicker.

"However, we are concerned that the review recommends that insurer recoveries
from the State should be restricted to businesses that turn over less than 2
million a year. This could be a disincentive for some larger firms to locate in
some areas. And, disappointingly, it is not recommended that consequential
losses should be covered by new legislation, meaning further losses for
uninsured firms. The Government should carry out an impact assessment on the
impact of both of these proposals."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Islamabad Dateline

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London riots

SECTION: EDITORIAL Vol. I No. 291

LENGTH: 555  words


FIVE days into the London riots, yet no signs of a let up. Instead the riots are
spreading as far afield as Manchester, Birmingham and Nottingham. The prime
minister, David Cameroon rushed to London to deal with the worsening crisis.
Parliament has been recalled from recess to discuss the crisis. Police force in
London has been beefed up to all-high numbers. All these measures point to a
sense of emergency prevailing at Number 10 and Westminster.

The riots have sparked associated looting, arson and mindless violence. While it
is imperative to bring the situation under control by enhanced policing, it is
important to look at wider issues that have contributed to riots. On 4 August
the riot in Tottenham, London, were triggered by the fatal shooting of a black
Mark Duggan by the Met police's Trident unit.

The circumstances of the shooting looked suspicious to the Duggan family. Soon
police account of the shooting began to crumble when it came to light that the
bullet lodged in a police radio came from police issue weapon. The police
account has subsequently been comprehensively rejected by Independent Complaint
commission (IPCC). On August 6 a peace vigil organized by the Duggan family and
local community outside Tottenham police station turned violent when police
officers failed to allay the family anxieties on the suspicious circumstances of
fatal shooting.

This led to riots, with local youth clashing with police in Tottenham. later on
riots spread like wild fire to other districts of London. The riots involved
clashes with police, looting and shop-burnings. However, Britain is no stranger
to such riots. Since 1981 Britain has experience sporadic riots mostly triggered
by perceived heavy-handed treatment of ethnic and black communities by police.
Two inquiries - Scarman and McPherson - set up in 1981 and 1997 to investigate
the causes of previous riots fingered police-local community fraught relations
as the major trigger behind riots.

Despite sensible suggestion to improve policing of the ethnic areas, not much
progress seems to have made as shown up in the anger directed towards ethnic
policing in recent riots. Black and ethnic minority communities are 9 times more
likely to be stopped and searched than their white counter parts. Since 1990
more than 400 persons of ethnic minorities have died in police custody. Yet no
police officer has been convicted to date. This perceived insensitivity of the
criminal justice system coupled with discriminatory policing is a potential
tinderbox vulnerable to explosion whenever any trigger event of aggressive
policing happens.

On 6 August lack of confidence in the police investigation lit this tinderbox
with all its wider consequences. Given this backdrop, therefore it would not be
wise to treat these riots as purely law and order problem. Tottenham, the area
where riots first erupted , has above national average - partly generational -
unemployment , fourth highest child poverty rate in the country , vastly pared
down youth service in consequence of the coalition government austerity drive.
Other districts of London experiencing riots share similar socio-economic
profile. In the long-run there is an unarguable need for addressing these
underlying drivers of unrest to prevent a repeat of riots we have witnessed for
the last five days.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Islamabad Dateline
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Gujarat will give befitting reply to critics: Modi

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 313 words


AHMEDABAD: In an effort to silence the Congress, chief minister Narendra Modi
blogged again on Tuesday about how he too was against riots. He posted on his
personal blog links of his speech telecast on Doordarshan on the afternoon of
February 28, 2002 and how he had appealed for peace.

The Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned Modi
last week-end for over nine hours on the Godhra riots of 2002, where he is
learnt to have also presented evidence in his defence.

Modi and 61 others have been blamed for omissions and commissions in the
post-Godhra riots in a complaint filed by widow of slain Congress ex-MP Ahsan
Jafri, Zakia, before the SC. The SIT is inquiring into these charges.

Justifying his reaction, his blog said: "Unsubstantiated criticism of the land
of Gandhi, Sardar (Vallabhbhai Patel) can never be tolerated. Gujarat will give
a befitting reply again, and again and again come what may." He claimed that his
appeal "had not been heard by those who are bent upon defaming Gujarat nor do I
foresee that it will be heard by them now."

"The Congress has asked Shri Amitabh Bachchanji whether he opposes Gujarat riots
or not? Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots and still does. Every
citizen must oppose riots. Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots,
1985 Gujarat riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots.
There cannot be different standards to judge riots," said Modi.

He wondered when he had not named anyone when referring to 'Talibans of
untouchability,' why the Congress was reacting thus.

Modi said he had also said the same thing in March 2002 in the state assembly
and quoted from his speech for the sake of "those spreading lies day and night."
"My 2002 March statement in Gujarat Assembly is enough for the world community
to understand the truth," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Riot police move in against Kiev protest camp

LENGTH: 473  words


A firework explodes amid flames during clashes between anti-government
protesters and riot police at Kiev's Independence Square Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian
riot police started to move into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday,
pushing back anti-government protesters whose tents were burning, local
television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Anti-government protesters take cover behind shields during clashes with riot
police at the Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police
started to move into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back
anti-government protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed.
[Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

An anti-government protester throws a log during clashes with riot police at the
Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police started to move
into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back anti-government
protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Anti-government protesters throw missiles during clashes with riot police at the
Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police started to move
into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back anti-government
protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Fireworks explode near anti-government protester during clashes with riot police
at the Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police advanced
on Tuesday onto a central Kiev square occupied by protesters, after at least 14
people died in the worst day of violence since demonstrations erupted against
President Viktor Yanukovich 12 weeks ago. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Riot policemen stand guard as they are hit by fire caused by molotov cocktails
hurled by anti-government protesters during clashes in Kiev Feb 18, 2014.
Ukrainian riot police charged protesters occupying a central Kiev square early
on Wednesday after the bloodiest day since the former Soviet republic, caught in
a geopolitical struggle between Russia and the West, won its independence more
than 22 years ago. At least 18 people, including seven policemen, died on
Tuesday during hours of violence between security forces and civilians who have
staged protests against President Viktor Yanukovich since last November.
[Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday

'Anti-Sikh riots were worse than '02 violence'

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 228 words


AHMEDABAD: He had caught the attention of the nation when he hurled his shoe at
the then Union home minister P Chidambaram in April 2009 and brought the 1984
anti-Sikh riots back to public attention. Jarnail Singh, a
journalist-turned-activist, is now trying to get justice for the victims of the
Delhi riots by creating public consensus on the 1984 violence. On Sunday, he
will take out a token march on SG Road.

Comparing the Gujarat riots of 2002 with the 1984 riots, Singh told journalists
on Saturday that the latter were more horrific not only in the execution but
also in their aftermath. "In the case of the 2002 riots, the media raised
questions and the judiciary took note and set up an SIT which summoned even the
state chief minister. But nothing has happened for the victims of 1984 riots as
the government has always tried to belittle the issue. In Gujarat, a former
minster is behind bars but, in Delhi, the accused have become ministers and held
important positions again and again," he said. Singh has also penned a book on
aftermath of the anti-Sikh riots.

He said that several commissions were appointed to probe the riots that killed
over 3,000 Sikhs in a matter of three days but nothing has come out of them. No
action has been taken against the political heavyweights or the 72 policemen
named in various cases.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday

Make inquiry into Groenpunt riot - DA

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 268 words


A FULL and independent commission of inquiry was needed into a riot in which
Groenpunt Prison, in the Free State, was set alight, the DA said yesterday.


  "It is important that the root causes of the outbreak of this violence be
determined," said DA MP James Selfe.
 Prisoners refused to eat, then vandalised the facility in Deneysville on
Monday, setting alight cells and offices and injuring four warders.
  A total of 50 inmates were injured in police attempts to stop the riot.
  Prisoners had complained about the quality of food and some prison officials.
They wanted a unit head to be fired.
  "There needs to be a full and independent inquiry into the matter to establish
why this riot occurred, who were the instigators of the riot, and whether
grievances by inmates were allegedly the precipitate cause of the riot," Selfe
said.
 The DA would ask the correctional services department to present a report on
the matter to the portfolio committee when parliament resumed.
  Correctional Services Minister Sibusiso Ndebele said prison riots would not be
tolerated.
  "While the department of correctional services is fully committed to the
humane treatment of every detainee, acts of riots by inmates at correctional
centres are not acceptable and will be dealt with firmly," he said.
  Correctional Services acting national commissioner Nontsikilelo Jolingana said
the situation at Groenpunt was under control yesterday.
  Ndebele said the rehabilitation of offenders, as well as safe and orderly
custody were two sides of the same coin. "The balance between security, control
and justice is paramount." - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 31, 2014

Zail Singh secy further stokes '84 riots embers

BYLINE: ANIL SHARMA

LENGTH: 462  words


New Delhi: The Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi seems to have re-ignited the
three-decade old controversy surrounding the post Indira Gandhi assassination
1984 anti-Sikh riots with Tarlochan Singh, the then press secretary to president
Giani Zail Singh, making fresh accusations against the then prime minister Rajiv
Gandhi.



In a charge that has the echoes of the same accusations that are levelled
against the Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi in the post-Godhra 2002 Gujarat
riots, Singh said that the riots were 'orchestrated and sponsored' and Rajiv
Gandhi did not even take the phone calls from the president.

"Indira Gandhi was dead in the morning but the first riots started in the
evening. Gianiji collected this information himself that a meeting of Congress
leaders - attended by Arun Nehru and Delhi leaders like H K L Bhagat, Jagdish
Tytler and all - took place before Rajiv Gandhi arrived from Kolkata. They
decided to give a slogan 'khoon ka badla khoon'. The first riot then took place
near INA market," he charged.

Rahul Gandhi had apparently made the observations in his interview with a
television channel to differentiate between the `84 and 2002 riots. He had said,
''The difference between the `84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the government was doing everything it could to stop the riots."

Modi is accused of having aided and abetted the rioters and now the former
presidential aide, who is also an ex-Rajya Sabha member and was closely
associated with the organizing of the 2010 Commonwealth Games, has come up with
similar accusations against the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi who is also
reputed to have argued that when a big tree falls (a reference to Indira
Gandhi's death) then the earth shakes.

The government also tried to defuse the controversy with the union I& B minister
Manish Tiwari regretting the riots."As far as 1984 riots are concerned, these
were extremely sad and unfortunate. The Prime Minister has apologised several
times both in Parliament and outside it," he said. Tarlochan Singh, who has
served as vice-chairman of the National Commission for Minorities from 2000 to
2003, has further alleged that unlike the 1984 communal strife, the 2002 Gujarat
riots were "spontaneous".

The Gujarat police did everything to stop rioting, Singh said, adding the same
is evident from the fact that 137 rioters were killed in police firing. His
claim may find acceptance in some quarters as in Delhi only one rioter was
killed in police firing in 1984. Incidentally, Singh served as the NCM chairman
when the NDA was in power at the Centre. Later, he entered the Rajya Sabha from
Haryana in 2004 with support from the BJP and INLD.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Insurers seek claims legislation reform following UK riots

BYLINE: Jill Insleyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 426 words

ABSTRACT

More than half of the claims submitted by insurers to police authorities under
1886 Riot Damages Act have been declined

FULL TEXT

A year after the UK riots, insurers have called on the government to reform
legislation relating to claims for riot damage after more than half the claims
they submitted to police authorities were declined.

The Association of British Insurers, the trade association for insurance
companies, has revealed that insurers have settled 98% of household property
damage claims, and have either settled or made payment towards 93% of small
business claims and 99% of large commercial claims.

But more than half of the claims submitted by insurers to police authorities
under the Riot Damages Act of 1886 have been declined.

Those whose properties were damaged or looted during the riots were able to
claim compensation from their insurers who, under the Riot Damages Act, passed
on the claims to the local police authority. The act also meant that those who
did not have insurance could apply for compensation.

But the high number of declined claims has prompted the ABI to say the act needs
to be simplified and streamlined to make sure "it delivers for those who need it
most".

Aidan Kerr, head of property at the ABI, said: "The Riot Damages Act is crucial
in providing financial compensation to victims of riots who do not have property
insurance or are underinsured, but the current lack of a standard approach has
caused unacceptable delays and confusion."

The trade body is calling for the following changes to the act:

· A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot is needed so victims in
different geographical locations are not treated differently. In some areas,
claims were made under the act that were declined by police authorities as they
did not see them as constituting a riot.

· The claims process for local police authorities needs to be streamlined and
standardised.

· The ABI would also like to see the time period for notification of claims
under the Riot Damages Act extended from 14 to 90 days.

A Home Office spokesperson said: "While decisions over individual claims are
entirely a matter for police authorities, we have worked closely with affected
forces to ensure victims are fully compensated.

"Following the riots last summer the Home Office extended the application period
to submit claims from 14 to 42 days and simplified the application procedure.

"We are also in the process of reviewing the Riot Damages Act to ensure it
protects the most vulnerable and provides value for money for the taxpayer."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

Tottenham riots: 'Live blogging' in 1985

BYLINE: Katy Stoddardguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 147 words

ABSTRACT

The Guardian's live blog is covering the London riots that started in Tottenham
at the weekend. In 1985, when riots engulfed the Broadwater Farm estate, the
timeline was much more low tech

FULL TEXT

The London riots that started in Tottenham on Saturday night are being .

These days, the live blogging team can keep up with any event as it happens, but
in days gone by it wasn't so easy.

When riots broke out in Tottenham in October 1985, technology hadn't yet caught
up with the Guardian reporting team and their love of a timeline.

Alongside articles on the Broadwater Farm incident and PC Keith Blakelock's
death, the Guardian coverage on 8 October 1985 included a  compiled by Guardian
reporters.

It bears a striking resemblance to today's live blog; the Guardian's reporters
were clearly ahead of their time.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

The Victorian law which has reduced the impact of the riots

BYLINE: Last summer's scenes of violent unrest ripped the heart out of Salford
and Manchester. But what will the impact be for insurance premiums. Paul Maher
reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 673 words


SPONSORS' COMMENT

Question: What impact have the riots had on insurance premiums for
shopkeepers/commercial businesses?

Rob Black at C&C Insurance Brokers, commented as follows.

The cost of last year's riots to the insurance industry was estimated at tens of
millions of pounds. Whilst individual businesses who had to claim on their
insurance for damage to property or theft of stock may see a marginal increase
in their premium at next renewal, it is unlikely that this one event alone will
have a significant impact across all business insurance policies.

However, if this type of civil unrest was to become more regular we may find
that insurers will increase premiums or malicious damage excesses for the areas
being affected.

At a time when there is huge focus on reducing public spending it may even force
the Government to make changes to the Riot Damages Act which currently,
providing certain time scales are met, acts as a safety net for underinsured
businesses and allows insurers to recoup some of their costs.   LAST summer's
riots are unlikely to result in an across-the-board hike in insurance premiums,
thanks to the Riot (Damages) Act, but some businesses could still feel a serious
pinch as a consequence. Dating back to Queen Victoria's reign, the act means
much of the damage costs incurred during the Manchester and Salford disturbances
in August will be covered by Greater Manchester Police Authority However, not
everything is covered by the 126-year-old law, and insurance companies have
still had to stump up payments for losses such as business interruption and
vehicle damage. There were more than 1,000 incidents across Manchester and
Salford during the riots in which plundering and destruction saw more than 100
properties damaged and 155 fires started. In total 381 claims have been filed
with the GMPA worth  £5.7m 170 have already been rejected as ineligible under
the act. The Association of British Insurers estimates that its members have
handled more than  £12m worth of claims as a result of the riots. Malcolm
Tarling, spokesman for the ABI, said: Although this act dates back to the
Victorian era, and there are attempts being made to revise it, we think the
principle should remain the same as it has enabled riot damage insurance to
remain widely available, as when riots do occur they can be very costly. Cover
for riot-damage is standard for most business policies. The Riot (Damages) Act
means insurers can claim back that cost from the relevant police authority but
it also ensures that if you haven't got riot damage cover, you are still
covered. However, there will be a cost on insurance regardless as the Riot
(Damages) Act doesn't cover everything. Whether businesses do face higher
premiums will be dependent on the area where their property is located and the
nature of their business. Jewellers, sports and footwear stores and mobile phone
shops are all seen as being at high risk. Insurance costs will also vary between
individual insurers who will assess past claims and the costs they incurred as a
result of the disturbances before offering new policies. But security measures
can be taken to help reduce insurance bills. The installation of toughened
glass, meshing, shutters, CCTV cameras or intruder alarms can all have an impact
on premiums. The ABI advises business owners and managers speak to their
insurance companies and get advice before spending money on increased security.
It also suggests the use of brokers to find insurers who specialise in covering
inner-city businesses. Tarling added: It is the role of an insurance company to
offer risk management advice and it is essential that those conversations take
place as important practical measures can be taken. Businesses should look to do
the same from a vandalism or burglary point of view. A common sense approach is
to look at the risk factors and talk to insurers. For a small business these are
precarious times and, if they face a loss, it could mean the end of the business
but that is why we have insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

The Victorian law which has reduced the impact of the riots

BYLINE: Last summer's scenes of violent unrest ripped the heart out of Salford
and Manchester. But what will the impact be for insurance premiums. Paul Maher
reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 672 words


SPONSORS' COMMENT

Question: What impact have the riots had on insurance premiums for
shopkeepers/commercial businesses?

Rob Black at C&C Insurance Brokers, commented as follows.

The cost of last year's riots to the insurance industry was estimated at tens of
millions of pounds. Whilst individual businesses who had to claim on their
insurance for damage to property or theft of stock may see a marginal increase
in their premium at next renewal, it is unlikely that this one event alone will
have a significant impact across all business insurance policies.

However, if this type of civil unrest was to become more regular we may find
that insurers will increase premiums or malicious damage excesses for the areas
being affected.

At a time when there is huge focus on reducing public spending it may even force
the Government to make changes to the Riot Damages Act which currently,
providing certain time scales are met, acts as a safety net for underinsured
businesses and allows insurers to recoup some of their costs.

LAST summer's riots are unlikely to result in an across-the-board hike in
insurance premiums, thanks to the Riot (Damages) Act, but some businesses could
still feel a serious pinch as a consequence. Dating back to Queen Victoria's
reign, the act means much of the damage costs incurred during the Manchester and
Salford disturbances in August will be covered by Greater Manchester Police
Authority However, not everything is covered by the 126-year-old law, and
insurance companies have still had to stump up payments for losses such as
business interruption and vehicle damage. There were more than 1,000 incidents
across Manchester and Salford during the riots in which plundering and
destruction saw more than 100 properties damaged and 155 fires started. In total
381 claims have been filed with the GMPA worth  £5.7m 170 have already been
rejected as ineligible under the act. The Association of British Insurers
estimates that its members have handled more than  £12m worth of claims as a
result of the riots. Malcolm Tarling, spokesman for the ABI, said: Although this
act dates back to the Victorian era, and there are attempts being made to revise
it, we think the principle should remain the same as it has enabled riot damage
insurance to remain widely available, as when riots do occur they can be very
costly. Cover for riot-damage is standard for most business policies. The Riot
(Damages) Act means insurers can claim back that cost from the relevant police
authority but it also ensures that if you haven't got riot damage cover, you are
still covered. However, there will be a cost on insurance regardless as the Riot
(Damages) Act doesn't cover everything. Whether businesses do face higher
premiums will be dependent on the area where their property is located and the
nature of their business. Jewellers, sports and footwear stores and mobile phone
shops are all seen as being at high risk. Insurance costs will also vary between
individual insurers who will assess past claims and the costs they incurred as a
result of the disturbances before offering new policies. But security measures
can be taken to help reduce insurance bills. The installation of toughened
glass, meshing, shutters, CCTV cameras or intruder alarms can all have an impact
on premiums. The ABI advises business owners and managers speak to their
insurance companies and get advice before spending money on increased security.
It also suggests the use of brokers to find insurers who specialise in covering
inner-city businesses. Tarling added: It is the role of an insurance company to
offer risk management advice and it is essential that those conversations take
place as important practical measures can be taken. Businesses should look to do
the same from a vandalism or burglary point of view. A common sense approach is
to look at the risk factors and talk to insurers. For a small business these are
precarious times and, if they face a loss, it could mean the end of the business
but that is why we have insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Murmurs of riots, residents warn

BYLINE: JASON MAGDER, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 344  words


There was a heavy police presence on the streets of Montreal North last night
hours after news that the police officers who shot and killed Fredy Villanueva
won't face criminal charges.

Villanueva, 18, was shot by police on Aug. 9, after police tried to arrest his
brother. The incident sparked an Aug. 10 riot in which a police officer was
shot, and many accusations of racial profiling from area residents.

Last night, news of a decision by crown prosecutors not to charge the police
officer who shot Villanueva spread rapidly through the neighbourhood.

"I don't like it," said a 42-year-old woman who didn't want to give her name.
She lives a block away from where the riot broke out. "Police don't leave the
people here alone. I'm scared there will be another riot, and more violence."

Valerie Dupuis, another area resident, said there is talk about another riot
being organized for this weekend.

"There have been murmurs about it for weeks," said Dupuis, 20. "This is a very
tight-knit community, so we hear everything."

At the video store Videoclip, signs of the riot were still evident last night.
The banner above the store's front door is half missing, from several explosions
that occurred during the violence.

An employee said she's bracing for more violence.

"There's going to be a riot, that is sure, sure, sure," said the woman, who did
not want to reveal her name. "People have been talking about a second riot after
the results of the police investigation are known."

Not everyone agreed that riots are a sure thing.

"They organized a march through the streets in October, and there was supposed
to be a riot at that time, but there wasn't," said another resident who didn't
want to be named.

Lyna Bunla, 16, said she, too, is upset about what happened to Villanueva. "He
was my friend. I knew him. I understand why people were angry, but I think their
reaction was exaggerated."

She said the heavy police presence last night, and since the shooting, has been
frustrating.

"Police are always here," she said. "We can't do what we want."

jmagder@thegazette.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Delhi government pledges free legal aid to 1984 riot victims

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 450 words


NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his
government will provide free legal assistance to all victims of the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. In an emotional discussion on the riots during which Rajouri
Garden MLA Jarnail Singh broke down, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said that he would
seek time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi so that all 70 MLAs could meet him
and ask for prompt action on the SIT set up by the ministry of home affairs to
investigate the riots. The House also demanded action against Congress member
Jagdish Tytler for his alleged involvement in the riots.

Kejriwal also said that had exemplary punishment been given to the perpetrators
of the 1984 riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots would not have happened. "The Sikh
community had been asking for an SIT for 30 years. When the AAP government came
to power in 2013, we constituted an SIT. Before it could be made functional our
government resigned. But before we came back to power, the home ministry formed
another SIT. We are willing to support it but I don't see anything happening,"
said Kejriwal.

The motion was moved by Singh who spoke at length about the riots, relating his
personal experiences of the riots in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination. Hari Nagar MLA Jagdeep Singh, who was 13 years old at the time of
the riots, also recounted how he went hospital to hospital with his mother,
looking for his father who had disappeared during the riots and alleged that
both BJP and Congress had only played politics over the issue.

"In one block of Trilokpuri, 500 men were killed. Where is the accountability
for these riots? Why can't we bring in a law that will fix responsibility on the
police and administration to stop the riots within a fixed time frame?" said
Jarnail Singh.

Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan first raised the issue of the Gujarat riots, saying
that if Tytler had been punished for his role in the 1984 riots, then the riots
in Muzaffarnagar, Trilokpuri and other places would not have happened.

The motion moved by the House stated: "This House requests the Union government
to take immediate cognizance of the recent revelations made against Congress
leader Jagdish Tytler in affidavits of CBI by one Abhishek Verma, that this
Congress politician influenced witnesses and made payments through hawala, and
order registration of a criminal case against him. The SIT notified by the Union
home ministry earlier this year must be asked to submit its report within the
stipulated deadline. All cases which were closed by the Delhi Police, which is
itself an accused organization of the 1984 riots, must be reopened and
investigated by an impartial agency."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Public vents over pace of probe;
Province bombarded with e-mails critically comparing investigation with that of
Britain following that country's August unrest

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; VANCOUVER RIOTS; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 313 words


A sampling of e-mails the province of B.C. received regarding the pace of the
Vancouver riot investigation in comparison to the riot investigation in Britain:

"It has been about 2 months since the hockey riot in Vancouver. It has been
about 2 DAYS since the UK riots. In the UK they have already arrested people,
put them before the courts and sentenced some. What is the justice system here
in BC doing besides naval gazing?"

"After seeing how London deals with their rioters it is extremely frustrating to
see how we deal with our rioters. Are charges ever going to be laid against
these people, and if so when? I truly hope that we will just not just forget
this act."

"Vancouver City and Police have completely put the blame on rioters, while
taking no accountability for their poor planning, lack of officers on the roads,
and delay in response to the riots and the aftermath. WE NEED ACTION!"

"I must tell you that I am annoyed and embarrassed that there have been so few
prosecutions of the participants in the Vancouver Stanley Cup Riots. ... It
would be shameful if unnecessary delays caused miscreants to avoid being held
accountable for their actions."

"I am writing to express my displeasure regarding the slow progress of the
courts in prosecuting the individuals responsible for the Vancouver Riots.
Recent news stories about the trouble in London, England have brought to light
the fact that there have been no charges laid and no court appearances in the
matter of the [Vancouver] riots. Despite having a multitude of evidence and even
some individuals that have turned themselves into police there are still no
charges."

"Premier Clark clearly stated that those people involved would be apprehended
quickly. What kind of a message are we sending to the taxpayers of BC, and to
the world media?"

"The contrast with London, England's recent riots is shocking."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Guardian Weekly

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Guardian Weekly: Guardian/LSE study will seek out the hidden causes

BYLINE: Paul Lewis

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 605 words


The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study into the widespread rioting and looting. As well as surveys of
those who took part in the disorder, the research will include interviews with
residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced analysis of more than 2.5m
riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation
and the Open Society Foundations. The project will seek to better understand why
riots then spread to other parts of the capital and cities across England. Four
nights of looting and arson in August left five people dead and more than 2,000
suspects arrested. Police expect that investigations to identify perpetrators of
the disorder will last several years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted after the Detroit
riots in 1967. The findings of that investigation, the result of a collaboration
between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and Michigan's Institute for Social
Research, challenged prevailing assumptions about the cause of the unrest.
Professor Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit study, will advise the
research into the English riots. The LSE's involvement will be led by Professor
Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department, which has the
highest research rating in the UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an adviser
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots. Crucially, it is vital that we speak
with those involved in the disturbances and those affected by them to try to
understand any lessons for public policy."

Previous incidents of serious civil disorder in England, such as the Oldham
riots in 2001 and the Brixton riots in 1981, led to government-commissioned
inquiries and reviews. Lord Scarman's public inquiry into the Brixton
disturbances, followed by rioting in Toxteth, Liverpool, proved a watershed for
social policy, warning that urgent action was required to tackle racial
disadvantage and distrust in police.

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into August's riots.
There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved in the
riots. A four-person panel announced by the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg,
will take evidence from residents in areas where there was rioting and report
preliminary findings in November.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts
and combine quantitative and qualitative research methods. At the heart of the
project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian over the last month.
The first is a database of more than 1,100 defendants who have appeared in court
charged with riot-related offences. The second database contains 2.5m riot
-related tweets. Executives at Twitter's headquarters in California authorised
the collation of tweets pooled from hashtags relating to the riots and their
aftermath, so they could form part of the study.

Julia Unwin, chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The JRF
believes that solid evidence has to be the driver for good policy. So, as
policymakers develop responses to the riots, the need for solid evidence on the
causes of the riots is crucial. Currently none exists."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bill would ban wearing masks during riots

BYLINE: Robert Hiltz, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 278  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A private member's bill to ban the use of masks in a riot is set to see its
first round of debate in the House of Commons today.

The bill comes as Vancouver police are handing out posters to try to round up a
number of suspects they say participated in June's Stanley Cup riots.

Alberta Conservative MP Blake Richards says his bill - dubbed the Preventing
Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act
- is an attempt to prevent violence in the streets by making it illegal to wear
a disguise while an individual is part of a riot.

When a riot starts, he said, "there's so much going that police have a very
difficult time to identify who these people are. This just gives (police)
another tool to make an arrest of someone who is clearly in a riot situation:
they're disguising themselves, they've obviously got an intention to do
something that they don't want to be identified when they are doing it."

Richards' bill would amend Sections 65 and 66 of the Criminal Code, which
outline the penalties for participating in a riot or unlawful assembly. As the
law stands now, Sections 65 and 66 state that participation in a riot could lead
to two years behind bars. If the private member's bill is passed, wearing a mask
and taking part in a riot would increase that jail term to five years.

According to the code, an unlawful assembly is defined as a gathering of three
or more people with a common purpose out to cause a disturbance, or incite
others to do so.

Richards said his bill would allow police to pick up rioters - such as the Black
Bloc protesters during the G20 summit in Toronto last year - before they are
able to cause trouble.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Blake Richards;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London Riots: Memories of Broadwater Farm evoked

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 196 words


For community leaders and residents in Haringey, Saturday's riots in Tottenham
evoked painful memories of the Broadwater Farm riots in October 1985.



They were also sparked by the death of a Tottenham resident - Cynthia Jarrett,
an African-Caribbean woman, who died from heart failure during a police search
of her home. During riots the next day,  Muswell Hill police officer PC Keith
Blakelock was murdered on the Broadwater Farm Estate. He had been trying to
protect firefighters who had come under attack.

At the time, there were claims of racism in the police and that young,
particularly black youths were often unfairly targeted by police.

Since the Broadwater Farm riots, Haringey Police has worked tirelessly with
community leaders to try to build positive relations.

For some, Saturday's riots were a sign that the relationship had broken down.
But community leaders have been quick to condemn the violence and urge calm.

Tottenham MP David Lammy said: "The scenes currently taking place in our
community are not representative of the vast majority of people in Tottenham.
Those who remember the destructive conflicts of the past will be determined not
to go back to them."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London Riots: Memories of Broadwater Farm evoked

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 196 words


For community leaders and residents in Haringey, Saturday's riots in Tottenham
evoked painful memories of the Broadwater Farm riots in October 1985.



They were also sparked by the death of a Tottenham resident - Cynthia Jarrett,
an African-Caribbean woman, who died from heart failure during a police search
of her home. During riots the next day,  Muswell Hill police officer PC Keith
Blakelock was murdered on the Broadwater Farm Estate. He had been trying to
protect firefighters who had come under attack.

At the time, there were claims of racism in the police and that young,
particularly black youths were often unfairly targeted by police.

Since the Broadwater Farm riots, Haringey Police has worked tirelessly with
community leaders to try to build positive relations.

For some, Saturday's riots were a sign that the relationship had broken down.
But community leaders have been quick to condemn the violence and urge calm.

Tottenham MP David Lammy said: "The scenes currently taking place in our
community are not representative of the vast majority of people in Tottenham.
Those who remember the destructive conflicts of the past will be determined not
to go back to them."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            March 3, 2004 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Three arrests over city riot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 189 words


SYDNEY police yesterday charged three more people, including two relatives of
Thomas "TJ" Hickey, over the Redfern riot sparked by the teenager's death.

NSW police said the latest arrests brought to 15 the number of people charged
over the February 15 riot.

Up to 40 police officers were injured in the riot.

Strike Force Timepiece, established to investigate the riot, yesterday arrested
a 27-year-old Riverstone man in Walgett, where he was due to face court this
afternoon.

He was charged with five offences, including using an explosive substance with
intent to cause grievous bodily harm, riot, affray, violent disorder and
throwing a missile.

Officers in Sydney also arrested a man in Quakers Hill.

The man, 38, also from Riverstone, was due to appear in Blacktown Court this
afternoon charged with violent disorder, throwing a missile, riot and affray.

Both men are members of TJ's family, according to police.

A 30-year-old Marrickville man was also arrested around 3.30pm at his house by
Newtown police.

He was charged with riot, affray, violent disorder and throwing a missile.

The man is due to appear at the Balmain Local Court today.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2004 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Riot shows need for corrections changes

BYLINE: Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 598 words


Aug. 15--A prison riot last weekend at a California state prison in Chino left
250 inmates injured after more than 11 hours of fighting, and it can carry a
vital lesson for Kentucky.

The riot came just days after a panel of federal judges ordered the state to
reduce its inmate population of 150,000 by more than 40,000 inmates within two
years. At the time of the riot, the Chino prison held about 5,900 inmates --
nearly twice its capacity.

Kentucky might seem far removed from the Chino riot, which officials attributed
to overcrowding coupled with ongoing racial tensions. The riot occurred
thousands of miles away and involved a prison system housing seven times the
number of inmates held by Kentucky.

But a 2008 study by the Pew Center on the States found that Kentucky had the
fastest-growing prison population, with a 12 percent jump in 2007.

Kentucky houses more than 21,000 inmates and is on track to top 30,000 within 10
years.

The main driver behind the rising prison population nationwide -- with one out
of every 100 people now behind bars -- was not from a rise in crime but rather
stricter criminal policies and new prison sentence enhancements, the Pew study
found. The use of imprisonment to punish probation and parole offenders has
added to the growing prison populations nationwide.

For years, Kentucky had emphasized strengthening criminal penalties and creating
new felony crimes over working to reduce recidivism, and the results are seen in
the state's nation-leading increase in prison population. Lawmakers are now
taking the state in a new direction.

Since the Pew study, Kentucky has taken several steps to help stem the growth of
its prison population, and the rising share of the state's budget it takes to
keep people locked up. In 2008, the state instituted a parole-credit program
that has led to the release of thousands of inmates, excluding violent criminals
and sex offenders. The passage of Senate Bill 4 this year will divert offenders
to substance abuse treatment before trial to try to get at the roots of the
crimes rather than solely punishing the criminal.

The General Assembly began a study of the state's criminal code in 2008, and
that study is continuing throughout the interim this year with an eye on a
proposal for changes when the legislature reconvenes in January. It's the first
comprehensive look at the state's system of criminal laws that lawmakers have
taken in decades, and changes will take time to enact.

Last week, Kentucky Chamber of Commerce President David Adkisson proposed that
the state look at expanding its use of privately run prisons as a way to reduce
costs. While that direction might help reduce the $500 million annual price tag
for corrections in Kentucky, lowering the number of inmates going forward will
have the largest impact on spending, whether that money's spent at state prisons
or private facilities.

Kentucky is on the right track to regain control of its booming prison
population, and lawmakers should follow through with plans to target recidivism
and increase substance abuse treatment. If they need a reminder of why this is
important, they need only look west to Chino.

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090815-OW-EDITORIAL-Riot-shows-need-for-corrections-changes-0815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2009 Messenger-Inquirer


                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hindustan

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday

How will Netaji know pain of riots? Mulayam's visit canceled

LENGTH: 238  words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Sept. 21 -- Samajwadi Party (SP) Chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, who had
planned to visit Muzaffarnagar to know the pain of fire scorched riots,
cancelled his visit to the district as of now. According to the earlier program,
Mulayam was going to visit the riot-hit areas on Sept. 20.

Before this, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi also
visited the riot-hit districts. Although, when Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav
visited Muzaffarnagar, then he had to face protest by people. The people were
waving black-flags to show their opposition against Akhilesh.

Significantly, the riot broke out in Jansath Tehsil of Kawal village,
Muzaffarnagar, on Aug, 27, when a girl was molestated. In this riot, 50 people
were killed and dozens injured. Although, SP Chief Mulayam Singh does not
consider the incident as a riot, he has termed the Muzaffarnagar incident as
racial violence.

Opposition has alleged that the SP government did not take any action
deliberately. While, the center's U.P. government has accused BJP and BSP
leaders for inciting the riot.

Reference: Original article of this translated version is available at:
http://www.livehindustan.com/news/lifestyle/muzaffarnagar/article1-story-50-111-
364599.html

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Hindustan. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Hindustan Media Ventures Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 31, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

'84 riots: Rahul's effigies burnt in Punjab

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 632  words


Chandigarh, Jan 31 (IBNS) Activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday burnt
the effigies of Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi across Punjab in protest of
his recent comments on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Earlier on Thursday, members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and
Shiromani Akali Dal held a protest outside the headquarters of the Indian
National Congress in New Delhi over the issue.

"We want justice, we want an SIT probe. We want the guilty to be hanged," said
one of the protesters.

"The Congress is responsible for the 1984 riots," he said.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met Lieutenant Governor Najeeb
Jung and demanded a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots.

"I met the Lieutenant Governor today and sought a SIT probe into the 1984 riots.
He is very positive about it," Kejriwal told reporters.

"We will discuss forming of the SIT and its terms in the next cabinet meeting,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said he will not apologise for the comments
on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

Former judge of Bombay HC to probe Dhule riots

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: Mumbai


umbai, March 19 -- Former judge of the Bombay High Court Shrikant C Malte will
hold a judicial probe into the circumstances leading to the January 6, 2013
communal riots at Dhule in north Maharashtra, in which six persons were killed
and 169 others injured.

The single-member judicial commission, set up under Justice (retd) Malte, has
been set a deadline of three months to complete the probe.

Apart from establishing the circumstances leading to the communal disturbances,
the Malte Commission will try to ascertain if individual or group had engineered
the riots.

The commission will also probe if the district administration and police handled
the law and order situation arising out of the riots effectively and if the
firing resorted to by the police during the riots was justified.

Besides fixing responsibility for the riots, the Commission will recommend steps
to be taken by the State Government and district administration to ensure
against recurrence of similar riots at Dhule in future.

Earlier in the day, making an announcement about appointment of Justice (retd)
Malte to probe the Dhule riots, Maharashtra Home Minister R R Patil said in the
State Assembly that 24 persons had so far been arrested in connection with the
communal riots - which broke out after a petty quarrel over payment of a bill in
Machibazar locality of the north Maharashtra town.

Patil was responding to queries by the leader of the Opposition Eknath Khadse,
who wanted to know if there was any link between the much-discussed inflammatory
speech allegedly made MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi in Andhra Pradesh.

Replying to a question by Subhash Desai of the Shiv Sena, Patil denied that the
State Government had given any compensation to those behind the riots. "We have
given compensation to those families affected by the riots and not those who
took part in the riots," the Minister said. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                Final_C Edition

8 facing Cup riot charges

BYLINE: Larissa Cahute, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 141 words


The Ministry of Justice has charged eight more people in connection with the
Stanley Cup riot.

The addition-al charges were sworn against five adults and three minors on Aug.
31 in connection with the June 2011 riot in Vancouver.

One minor is charged with taking part in a riot, having their face masked and
two counts of mischief.

Another minor is charged with taking part in a riot and break-and-enter. And the
third minor is charged with taking part in a riot, break-and-enter and mischief.

Brandan Arthur Joseph Drader is facing charges of taking part in a riot.

Jeffery Wilson Chatman, Rhys Michael Kearns and Manvir Singh Khatra are all
facing charges of taking part in a riot and break-and-enter.

And Matthew William Eakin is facing charges of taking part in a riot, two counts
of break-and-enter and four counts of mischief.

lcahute@ theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

Milton Keynes company takes award for riotous stand'

LENGTH: 377  words


A Milton Keynes business has beaten hundreds of competitors to receive the top
award at an industry-leading event.

Buckinghamshire based Riot Squad caused award-winning anarchy at the Vaper Expo,
held at Birmingham's NEC at the weekend, and fought off competition to win the
Stand of the Show Award.

The celebrating company achieved the prestigious accolade beating more than 200
other businesses at the show, which was attended by thousands of retail traders
and vaping visitors.

Riot Squad's award-winning stand included a bold, branded SWAT style van,
complete with interrogation chamber, where visitors were apprehended before
enjoying an arresting experience like no other.

Thousands of vapers flocked to the Riot Squad stand during the three-day expo
where they were taken captive and dressed in prisoner boiler suits before being
bundled into the interrogation chamber.

All vapers visiting the Riot Squad stand had a riotous time and the chance to
take part in the award-winning anarchic antics.

The judges awarded Riot Squad the top Stand of the Show prize for offering the
best all-round experience, best eliquid range and best branding at the expo,
recognised as one of Europe's biggest vaping exhibitions.

The fun, incarceration immersive experience was staged so visitors could sample
the newly launched Riot Squad eliquids before being released.

Ben Johnson, of Riot Squad, said: "We are delighted to have won this amazing
award. It is a fantastic achievement and acknowledges everything we wanted to
capture with our Riot Squad interactive experience at our innovative stand.

"This award is particularly prestigious as it was our brand launch we wanted to
ensure, when we introduced the Riot Squad range to vapers, we delivered the wow
factor and made it memorable for everyone who took part.

"Our very own realistic riot squad put vaping victims' through their paces and
the response we had from the thousands who visited the Riot Squad stand was
overwhelmingly positive - this is an amazing achievement for Riot Squad and we
hope the first of many more awards."

The premium eliquids offer intense riot inspired flavours including Menthol
Molotov, Pink Grenade and Strawberry Scream.

For more information about Riot Squad go to www.riotsquadeliquid.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MPMC


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

BJP, BSP stage walkout over Muzaffarnagar communal riots

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 17 -- BJP and the BSP staged a walkout from the state assembly
over the communal riots in the state and implication of innocents in the 2013
Muzaffarnagar riots and Saharanpur riots in2014.

However, the Congress alleged that the government was covering up the communal
violence cases as the Centre'srecords claim that 247 communal riots took place
during this period. Congress also staged protest in the state assembly which
continued on road over the snooping case against party vice-president Rahul
Gandhi and summoning of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh by a CBI court in
Coalgate scam.

The minister, giving details of the Muzaffarnagar riots, said that 477 cases
were registered in which 1,359 peoplewere made accused, altogether 1,046
criminals have been arrested and action taken against 1,349 people. In
theSaharanpur case, 237 cases were registered in which 229 people made accused
and 99 of them arrested. The BJP and the BSP members were dissatisfied with
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Mohammad Azam Khan's reply, who claimed that just
two communal riots occurred in the state, Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013 and
Saharanpur riots in2014 since March 2013 till date and the other incidents were
just criminal clash. However, Nadim Javed of the Congress alleged that the
government wascovering up the communal violence cases as the Centre'srecords
claim that 247 communal riots took place during this period but minister Azam
Kahan added that the Central records also say that in 2013 the communal riots
incidents were 247 but in2014 it came down to 140 while in other places
particularly in the BJP ruled states, the number has gone up. BJP memberSuresh
Rana demanded that around 500 innocents who have been jailed for the
Muzaffarnagar riots should be released in which most of them are senior
citizens, he also claimed thatin the FIRs, police registered cases against nine
people whowere already dead.

The BSP then demanded that the Muzaffarnagar riots accused were given police
protection and when the government efused to accede to their demands, they too
staged a noisy walkout.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Modi govt abetted and pushed 2002 riots further, we didn't in '84: Rahul

LENGTH: 571  words


Targetting the BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, Congress vice
president Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused his government in Gujarat of "abetting
and pushing the riots" of 2002.

The Congress government, in contrast, had tried to stop the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
in Delhi,  he said, even as he admitted some Congressmen were involved in those
riots.



The difference between 2002 and 1984, Rahul said, was that the Gujarat
government was involved in the riots.

"The difference between the '84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the government was doing everything it could to stop the riots," Rahul
said in an interview to Times Now, his first to a news channel.

"In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong," he said.


Asked to explain how the Gujarat government abetted and pushed the riots, he
said the claim was not his. "It's not meit's the large number of people who were
there, large number of people who saw actively the government of Gujarat being
involved in the riots."

While he deflected questions on whether he should tender an apology for the
anti-Sikh riots, Gandhi admitted that "some Congressmen probably were involved"
in them. "There is a legal process through which they have gone through. Some
Congressmen have been punished for it," he said.

Gandhi, for most part of the 90-minute interview, repeated what he called the
"fundamental political issue at hand" - changing the present political system to
end the concentration of power in a few hands and opening up systems and
processes to bring in youth and empowering them and women. He also referred
frequently to the RTI and Lokpal laws enacted by the UPA government and used
these arguments to deflect questions.

For instance, asked how Modi can be held responsible for the 2002 riots when the
courts have given him a clean chit, he replied: "Our political party is fighting
an ideological battle against the BJP and let me draw out the two pillars - our
party believes that women should be empowered, democracy should go to every
house, that RTI, and the MNREGA paradigm should be further expanded. The BJP
believes power should be extremely concentrated in this country, few people
should run this country and the large mass of this country should have no
voice."

Rahul also said he was in favour of bringing political parties under the RTI if
there was unanimity among parties. But expanding the ambit of RTI only to
include parties could create an imbalance, he said.

"If you only put RTI into one pillar and you don't have RTI in, for example, the
judiciary and the press and in other areas then you might create an imbalance.
Am I for opening up? Am I for bringing RTI into as many places possible?
Absolutely. Am I for creating an imbalance and weakening the legislative
structures of this country. No I am not," he said.

Gandhi reiterated that the Congress could learn some things from the Aam Aadmi
Party and defended its decision to support its government in Delhi.

"We thought we would assist them, because our party felt we should give them a
chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one can see
exactly how much they have proved themselves."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

UU blasts QUB 'softly softly' approach to St Patrick's Day

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 323 words


The good people of the Holylands are lambasted every year by bad student
behaviour making their lives unbearable. While not all students are responsible,
those who are should be put out of university and the university they belong to
penalised, to ensure that it's in their interests to make students behave more
responsibly.

Cassie Sylvester

Maybe if the police didn't turn up in riot gear every year the riots wouldn't
happen. At the end of the day, if there's no riot police, there's no rioters.
That's not to say don't have them on standby. These scare tactics, or whatever
you want to call their physical presence, is not a deterrent: it just gives the
students a target.

Jaymnb

Jaymnb: What attire would you suggest when responding to a riot? Flip-flops and
a wide-brimmed sun hat?

Belfast Rich

Jaymnb: Are you really trying to claim that people only get involved in a riot
because they see riot police? Your suggestion would appear to be that the police
simply let the rioters run amok for fear of inflaming the situation. No doubt
your attitude would be different if you owned a home in the area that is in
question. These students are supposed to be the academic elite in Northern
Ireland -- not a bunch of football hooligans.

RMJM12

I spent many happy years with fellow students, partying in the Holylands area,
which has very many happy memories for me. There was certainly a vast amount of
drink taken and many raucous weekends. Now the real truth will out -- that was
in the early-1960s. If we had behaved like the moronic hoodlums who display all
the reserve of caged animals, our parents would have been told of our wayward
behaviour and they would have withdrawn us from any further commitment to
tertiary education. We would have been taken home in shame.

Word_Smith

Look at all the GAA tops, bottle-throwing, tricolours and blue bags on display.
Is that the 'all-inclusive' St Patrick's Day? No, thanks. I'll stay at home.

Wrecked_H

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     January 29, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Anti-Sikh riots: Kejriwal wants SIT probe

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 545  words


New Delhi, Jan 29 (IBNS) Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met
Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung and demanded a Special Investigation Team (SIT)
to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I met the Lieutenant Governor today and sought a SIT probe into the 1984 riots.
He is very positive about it," Kejriwal told reporters.

"We will discuss forming of the SIT and its terms in the next cabinet meeting,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said he will not
apologise for the comments on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots,Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

The Rebirth Of History: Times Of Riots And Uprisings

BYLINE: Angel Dahouk

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 325 words


While the author sees a potential for change in this period of revolt, he is
also realistic about the shortfalls of a riot as opposed to a revolution. A riot
, Badiou contends, is an "event" - the opening of a possibility of a new world -
and he outlines three types. Last year's London riots fall into the "immediate"
category, spearheaded as they were by youth in their local area.

Almost invariably, such riots are in reaction to an injustice committed by the
state. The French petrol refinery blockades of 2010 are an example of a "latent"
riot - an underlying resistance and mobilisation which has the potential to
become tumultuous. It crosses boundaries of location, bringing varied groups
from across society together on a protest site. While being peaceful, it is
powerfully resistant. It is controlled without being controlled. The progression
of both immediate and latent riots might create what Badiou terms an
"historical" riot, illustrated by the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia from 2010
onwards, in which a siege in a central location assembles a multiplicity of
voices and creates a unification of people. Yet Badiou claims that none of these
three types of riot can lead to change without a shared idea - the "event"
itself is not enough to present an alternative to the dominant order. It must
have the means within itself, the idea and the resources, to immediately seize
power and assert a new order, one which Badiou declares must be communism. While
representing a departure from Marxist dialectics - for which he is often
criticised - this book demonstrates that Badiou's ideas make an important
contribution to the materialist tradition. His writing is engaging and follows a
clear system of thought which he illustrates with current examples. But his
idealism, which sometimes overlooks the objective and scientific reality of
social structures, sees Badiou leaping from revolt to rebirth on a tightrope
that might not quite hold.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

21st Century riots need a 21st Century response

BYLINE: David James

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 664 words


IT is not easy to give the riots that have swept through London and other major
English cities a name.

Perhaps the selfish, destructive little ***t riots, or the nickyourself-a-stereo
riots, or the stand-up-for-a-guy-who-had-aloaded-gun-in-his-sock riots? More
pithily, what about the Neet riots, the Broken Society riots or even, given the
rioters' use of expensive mobile phones, the Blackberry riots? It's easy to name
a riot when there's a cause, like the race riots, or a place on which it was
focused, like the Rhondda riots, or even a trade that is rioting.

Believe it or not between 1910 and 1911 France was shocked by the Champagne
riots, by growers of the now exclusive drink.

Cameron could perhaps learn from the then French Government's response - it
dispatched 40,000 troops.

But when the outpouring is of mindless anger, joy at destruction and simply
theft with no apparent reason for the majority of those taking part, it becomes
harder.

The we've-got-nothing-else-todo riots? Plan B, the rapper, yesterday put forward
his take on the riots: "I think they are doing it because they want some free
stuff and they ain't got any and they're angry at that."

This, in its simplicity, is probably the best explanation I've seen. These are
the mindlessly destructive riots, the pointless riots, the bored riots.

Yet the flaw is that there are always people who want free stuff and haven't got
any. They don't always bring cities into chaos for fun.

Some have tried to explain the riots as a product of the coalition cuts, or as a
symptom of a divided society in which an excluded underclass is rising up
against the institutions enjoyed by those who have cash.

In this case those institutions seem to be Greggs, Lidl, Curry's and the corner
shops from which the looters steal wine, crisps and frozen pizza. Yet if that's
the case why have we not seen widespread rioting in Cardiff, Bridgend or
Merthyr, all places with just as much reason to despise the coalition's cuts and
with just as many excluded Neets as London? Perhaps we are asking the wrong
question. If there is no reason for the riots apart from the joy of destruction,
perhaps we should be asking: why aren't the rioters worried about the
consequences? One young rioter told yesterday's Radio 4 Today show: "What are
they gonna do? Give me an Asbo? I'll live with that."

In a world where teenagers have so little to fear from authority that they will
loot and vandalise and torch a 150-yearold department store for fun, perhaps our
kinder society simply does not have the teeth to stop those who feel excluded
from committing crime.

The choice we face is stark: find a way to include everyone - or find a stick
that will stop those who feel excluded from rioting.

Those people signing petitions calling for the rioters to be denied benefits and
kicked out of their council homes are simply expressing the desire for some kind
of retribution to be meted out on those who seemingly riot with impunity.

If finding a new form of punishment becomes both a social and political
necessity, it may well swing British politics back onto a more traditional keel
and away from the strange sight of right-wingers expressing the desire to hug
hoodies.

Another factor that could drive this is modern communications. The technology
that enabled citizens across North Africa to rise up against their despotic
governments also allows mindless thugs to co-ordinate riots on British streets.

Perhaps these are the 21st Century riots. Traditional policing tactics can't
tackle them as once would have been possible because instant messaging systems
and social networking sites have decisively shifted power into the hands of the
masses.

That means if traditional policing no longer works, the pressure to find another
way to stop the riots - whether by finding a way to give the rioters a sense of
pride in the things they are destroying or by finding a way to scare them off
their destruction - becomes more intense.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ So much violence and destruction, but the rioters don't seem to have
had a cause

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                            October 31, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

What's trending?

SECTION: BITS AND BYTES; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 339 words


I predict a riot:

Congratulations to the San Francisco Giants on wining the World Series. And
thanks to their "fans" who took to the streets a! er their baseball team's Game
7 win over the Kansas City Royals for tearing the place up. It's nice to have a
little breathing room up here in B.C. where participants in the 2011 Stanley Cup
riot are still being processed through the court system.

White people only riot over important things, like baseball #Ferguson - @Wisco

America: where peaceful protesting in #Ferguson is labeled as a riot, and actual
riotous behavior is labeled a World Series celebration. - @LeftSentThis

@jaymohr37 San Francisco is actually a very convenient city for a riot.. It's
really easy to turn over Smart Cars Priuses #JayMohrSports - @YFPFP

Can anyone in San Francisco recommend a good place to riot? Nothing crazy, maybe
flip over a few cars or. burn some stuff. #wheninrome - @chris_olbekson

Rioting because your team just won the World Series is logically analogous to
urinating on housepets because you just got a raise. #sfgiants -
@TrainedHedonist

So here's the plan: The A's win the World Series next year, and people riot and
destroy the Colosseum. Then they HAVE to build a new one. - @TheKings_Slayer

Oh my god, why do people riot over SPORTS? I'm looking at you #SanFrancisco.
Terrible things are happening, riot over that. - @RachelLiez

WTH?! #SanFrancisco #riot - @LucyLyrical

Vancouver's like: "San Francisco had a 'riot' ? That's cute." - @TimSwan_

Not gonna lie, these riot photos of San Francisco make me a bit homesick for
Detroit. - @renaud

THE CITY THAT WILL RIOT HARDER SHOULD WIN. #WorldSeries #Game7 - @paradeofflesh

I have new respect for San Francisco as a city. Thats a proper blue collar riot.
I hope i dont find out the burning couch was from West Elm. - @danielgoodman

from what i can gather san francisco is having a riot because a giant beat up
lorde - @tinybaby

Why do people riot, shoot people, and set things on fire when they're
celebrating? #worldseries #sanfranpsycho - @claytonbrooks

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);;  (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

London Riots Turned Into Dramatic Stage Play

BYLINE: THR Staff

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 351  words


The events of the London riots earlier this year have been turned into a stage
production, the Associated Press reports.

A 250-seat London venue, Tricycle Theatre, opened The Riots earlier this week,
recreating the mayhem that took place over four nights in August through
real-life testimonies from residents, police, politicans, community employees
and rioters.

Director Nicholas Kent said that The Riots was done with the intention of acting
as a public inquiry into the riots. The government has not held an inquiry thus
far.

STORY: London Riot Footage Should Be Handed Over to Police: PM David Cameron

"It didn't have to happen," Kent told the AP. "That's the thing I totally took
away from our work on the play. It seemed to us important to explore the reasons
for the riots and people's motivations and what happened and what our response
was to it as Londoners -- and how we could prevent something like that happening
again."

The riots took place after a fatal shooting in the working class neighborhood of
Tottenham of 29-year-old Mark Duggan on Aug. 4. The Riots spotlights the events
that came shortly thereafter.

Gillian Slovo, who penned the story, and her team of researchers had 56 hours
worth of interviews with police officers on duty in Tottenham that night,
community leaders, rioters and a man who was left without a home due to arson.
Two people who were sent to prison for taking part in the riots wrote letters
after Tricycle advertised in a prison paper.

STORY: London Riots Damage Jamie Oliver's Birmingham Restaurant

Slovo defended the decision to include their voices in the production, saying in
an interview, "I do think it's important for us to listen and to see how they
got caught up, what they think about it afterwards and what provoked them to do
it. Because otherwise how can you make sure this won't happen again?."

The production also depicts how different the riots felt depending on a person's
perspective.

The Tricycle has been known to put on numerous productions based on true-to-life
events, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Riots will play through Dec. 10.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Three charged in prison riot and escape attempt

BYLINE: Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows Times

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 155  words

DATELINE: MAPLE RIDGE


MAPLE RIDGE - A prison riot last summer that left a Maple Ridge jail with
"extensive damage" has resulted in charges against three men.

Cash Vansanten and Johnny Nguyen have been charged with forcible prison break
with intent to free themselves and taking part in a riot. Peter Pete has also
been charged with taking part in a riot.

The melee at the Fraser Regional Corrections Centre broke out last August. It
took crews from the Lower Mainland Emergency Response Team, Ridge Meadows RCMP
members, three negotiators, as well as B.C. Corrections tactical teams, Maple
Ridge Fire Department and BC Ambulance to bring the riot under control.

A heavily censored copy of the B.C. Corrections investigation report into the
incident said "a physical review of the unit showed extensive damage."

Police are still investigating a second riot at the same jail on Feb. 9. In that
riot, prisoners smashed windows, set fires and tore up their cells.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             March 25, 2014 Tuesday

PDP boss hopes Modi will deliver on his promises

BYLINE: By Naseer Ganai in Srinagar

LENGTH: 534  words


PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has questioned the secular credentials of various
political parties in the country, saying leaders like Nitish Kumar and the
father- son duo of Farooq and Omar Abdullah were part of the BJP- led NDA when
it suited their interests.

The PDP leader also insisted that there was a lot of politics going on regarding
the issue of communal riots, including the one that took place during Chief
Minister Narendra Modi's rule in Gujarat. She hoped that the BJP prime
ministerial candidate would follow the footsteps of former PM Atal Bihar
Vajpayee on the Kashmir issue.

" When it suits the likes of Farooq and Omar Abdullah, Nitish Kumar and others,
they join the NDA and enjoy power. And when they leave the NDA, they describe
the BJP as communal party. Does their alliance with any party determine what is
communal and what is secular? They talk about riots. Has anyone resigned after
the recent Muzaffarnagar riots or the 1984 anti- Sikh riots in Delhi? Why they
are selective even about communal riots?" Mehbooba said in an interview to M AIL
T ODAY . " Over the years riots have been taking place, but no chief minister
has resigned be it in Delhi, Gujarat or in Muzaffarnagar.

Even if the head of the state is not involved in the riots, he should have
courage to apologise to his people because he is there to protect them. Modi too
needs to apologise to his people for Gujarat riots," she added.

The Congress should not talk about riots as it failed to pass an anti- communal
violence bill in Parliament, the PDP leader added. She argued that the Congress
used the communal card to stop Modi whereas it was the UPA's dismal performance
which facilitated his rise.

" The Congress has launched a campaign to stop Modi from coming to the power.
But the fact is misgovernance, corruption, lawlessness of the UPA has
facilitated the rise of Modi," she said.

" Afzal Guru was at number 29 among the convicts who were on death row. The UPA
did not focus on Beant Singh's killers. It didn't touch Rajiv Gandhi killers
either. It played the communal card by hanging Guru to stop Modi and it has
failed miserably. The UPA thought it could stop Modi by hanging a Kashmiri
Muslim, but it didn't work. It only created further alienation in Jammu and
Kashmir," Mehbooba asserted.

The daughter of PDP patron Mufti Mohammad Sayeed has high expectations from
Modi.

" He ( Modi) has stated that he would pursue Vajpayee's policy on Kashmir. That
is a welcome sign. We need to wait and watch. But at the same time we must not
forget that when the BJP comes to power, it has courage to take certain bold and
unconventional decisions."

With some parties in the Valley drifting towards it, the BJP said it will
resolve the issues through humanity.

" On the external dimensions of the issue, BJP will never allow India's
territory to be bargained or compromised. On the internal dimensions, our
approach will be guided by Atal Behari Vajpayee's pronouncement that all issues
will be resolved within the dimension of ' insanyiat'," BJP leader Arun Jaitley
said.

He said his visits to the state have convinced him that the sense of
discrimination among the people of Jammu, Leh and Ladakh has to be addressed.
PTI

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 26, 2011 Monday

Courts mistreating cases as riot-related, says defence lawyer

BYLINE: Fiona Bawdonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 585 words

ABSTRACT

Fiona Bawdon: Is a Tottenham solicitor alone in having clients charged as part
of riots, despite them having no connection other than being in the same
borough?

FULL TEXT

The courts are treating some offenders as riot cases, even though their crimes
were committed miles away from the scene of any disorder, according to a leading
defence solicitor.

James Nichol, a solicitor based in Tottenham, says he is representing people who
are being "charged as part of the riots, simply because their offences were
committed in the borough where riots were taking place".

Nichol's firm was on the police station duty rota the night the riots started
and he is sceptical of figures released last week showing that more than 17,000
people had been charged with riot-related offences. He says this figure is
distorted by the inclusion of offenders such as his clients who were nowhere
near the riots, but who are nonetheless being punished as if they were part of
the disorder. Nichol adds that statistics showing three-quarters of rioters had
a previous conviction are also misleading: a client of his had a "previous
conviction" for using a child's bus ticket.

As the Guardian has reported previously, the courts certainly are punishing riot
defendants far more harshly than would otherwise be the case. Two-thirds of them
are being held on remand, compared with just 10% of defendants charged with
indictable offences in 2010, according to the Ministry of Justice. Magistrates
are sending people to prison for twice as long as they did for similar offences
last year (5.1 months, compared with 2.5 months). A memo obtained by the
Guardian following a freedom of information request revealed magistrates were
urged to disregard normal practice and refer even minor riot-related offences to
the crown court for sentence.

Nichol says riot penalties are being imposed on offenders just because they were
in the same postcode as the disorder. Cases he has seen include a man arrested
for carrying a baseball bat on the night when rioting broke out elsewhere in the
borough, and an 18-year-old who attempted to break into a shop which was about
an hour's walk from the nearest disorder.

"People are no longer being sentenced for the offence; they are being sentenced
for the riot," he says.

Colleagues of Nichol's share his concern. One said young adults in particular
are "being hammered" by the courts. Tony Edwards, who works in east London, says
the problem is not that courts are going above the sentencing guidelines in riot
cases, but that they have torn them up altogether. "The sentences we are seeing
bear no relation to anything else at all." Magistrates are remanding people in
custody for the most minor offences - such as a man charged with carrying an
offensive weapon for having a dog lead.

Edwards, who was a member of the now defunct Sentencing Guidelines Council, says
the current Sentencing Council "missed an opportunity" by not calling an
emergency meeting to draw up new guidance to deal with riot cases.

Instead, experienced defence solicitors such as Edwards and Nichol say courts
are "making it up as they go along".

Solicitors are hopeful, if not optimistic, that normal service may be resumed
after next week when the appeal court is due to hear 10 cases challenging riot
sentences.

The Guardian's Reading the Riots research team would like to hear from defence
solicitors with examples of the approach courts are taking to sentencing in riot
cases. You can contact us on reading.the.riots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Govt pledges free legal aid to 1984 riot victims

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 400 words


Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his government will
provide free legal assistance to all victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. In an
emotional discussion on the riots during which Rajouri Garden MLA Jarnail Singh
broke down, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said that he would seek time from Prime
Minister Narendra Modi so that all 70 MLAs could meet him and ask for prompt
action on the SIT set up by the ministry of home affairs to investigate the
riots. The House also demanded action against Congress member Jagdish Tytler for
his alleged involvement in the riots.

Kejriwal also said that had exemplary punishment been given to the perpetrators
of the 1984 riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots would not have happened. "The Sikh
community had been asking for an SIT for 30 years. When the AAP government came
to power in 2013, we constituted an SIT. Before it could be made

functional our government resigned. But before we came back to power, the home
ministry formed another SIT. We are willing to support it but I don't see
anything happening," said Kejriwal.

The motion was moved by Singh who spoke at length about the riots, relating his
personal experiences of the riots in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination. Hari Nagar MLA Jagdeep Singh, who was 13 years old at the time of
the riots, also recounted how he went hospital to hospital with his mother,
looking for his father who had disappeared during the riots and alleged that

both BJP and Congress had only played politics over the issue.

Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan first raised the issue of the Gujarat riots, saying
that if Tytler had been punished for his role in the 1984 riots, then the riots
in Muzaffarnagar, Trilokpuri and other places would not have happened.

The motion moved by the House stated: "This House requests the Union government
to take immediate cognizance of the recent revelations made against Congress
leader Jagdish Tytler in affidavits of CBI by one Abhishek Verma, that this
Congress politician influenced witnesses and made payments through hawala, and
order registration of a criminal case against him. The SIT notified by the Union
home ministry earlier this year must be asked to submit its report within the
stipulated deadline. All cases which were closed by the Delhi Police, which is
itself an accused organization of the 1984 riots, must be reopened and
investigated by an impartial agency ."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Afghan, ISAF forces suppress prison riot in western province

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Arzu TV on 20 March

A number of prisoners, who staged a riot in Ghowr Province in the afternoon of
Thursday [18 March], stopped their riots after the intervention of Afghan
security forces and foreign forces.

According to local officials in Ghowr Province, the riot in the provincial
prison [in Chaghcharan, capital of Ghowr Province] started when prisoners
protested the transfer of a murderer, accused of killing an influential
tribesman, from the Ghowr Province prison to the Pol-e Charkhi prison in Kabul.

[Correspondent] The spokesman for the Ghowr governor said that the prisoners'
riot started at 1300 in the afternoon of Thursday and continued till last
midnight. The riot was suppressed with the help of Afghan forces and ISAF
[International Security Assistance Force]. Mr Khatibi said that no one had
suffered in the riot. However, during the riot and disorder, the prisoners broke
many windows of the Ghowr Province prison and inflicted material losses to the
prison. He added that the situation in the prison was now under control of the
Afghan and foreign forces and prison officials have started investigations into
this case.

Prisoners and human rights organizations in the west of Afghanistan have
repeatedly expressed concern about the poor conditions of prisons in this part
of the country.

[Video shows armed police and security forces and their vehicles patrolling an
area]

Source: Arzu TV, Mazar-e Sharif, in Dari 1500 gmt 20 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav claims assistance worth Rs 115 crore to
Muzzafarnagar riot victims

LENGTH: 290  words


Muzzafarnagar: Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh visited the Muzzafarnagar
riot victims on Sunday.

It was his first visit to the district after communal riots which killed several
people hit the city almost 7 months ago.

The motive of his visit ahead of Lok Sabha elections on April 10 was clear. He
was seeking the support of people of Muzzafarnagar.

He said that SP will emerge as the largest party and the third front will form
the government. Also, he appealed the people to vote for SP candidate Virender
Singh.

Addressing a rally in the district Yadav claimed that Rs 115 crore was spent on
the assistance given to victims of deadly communal riots.

At the same time he also attacked Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi alleging
that he did not spent a single penny for riot victims of 2002.

With the SP government under attack for handling of communal riots that left
over 60 people dead and thousands homeless, Mulayam claimed the administration
had successfully controlled the violence in two days.

"SP government provided an assistance of Rs 115 crore to riot victims. Such a
big amount was never distributed as relief to riot victims in the country.
Gujarat government led by Modi had not given a single rupee to the riot victims
but UP government has distributed relief amount to riot victims without any
discrimination," the former UP chief minister said.

Referring to the Sachchar committee report, he said that Mulims are economically
backward and the state government had planned various welfare schemes for them.

He claimed that Samajwadi party would win more than 50% of the 80 seats in Uttar
Pradesh.

The SP leader said Muslims and farmers had been ignored in the country and they
needed a helping hand to improve their condition.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                      December 18, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Tencent completes its full acquisition of Riot Games

BYLINE: Jonathan Clifford

LENGTH: 252  words


In a recent announcement, American video game publisher and developer Riot Games
Inc. has revealed that bigwig Chinese Internet firm Tencent Holdings Ltd. has
completed the full acquisition of the company.

Tencent had acquired a majority stake in Riot Games -- the company behind
'League of Legends' real-time strategy video game video game -- in February
2011; and now the remaining equity of the developer has also been acquired by
the Chinese Internet company.

The financial details of Tencent's full acquisition of Riot Games have not been
officially disclosed. However, according to a report, Tencent owned nearly 93
percent of Riot Games' stakes before taking over the full ownership of the
company.

In a confirmation that Tencent has fully acquired Riot Games, the video game
developer has disclosed, in a recent post on its official website, a change to
its equity and employee rewards structure, to indicate that "our majority
investor, Tencent, recently purchased the remaining equity of Riot Games."

In an announcement of the company's full acquisition by Tencent, Riot Games said
in its post that there were incoming "Riot comp changes," and added: "As a
result of our continued growth and changing circumstances, we're shifting to a
new structure to recognize and reward Rioters' contributions."

Technology (http://uncovercalifornia.com/business/technology)United States
(http://uncovercalifornia.com/region/united-states)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                        April 6, 2014 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Mulayam visits Muzaffarnagar, attacks Modi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 217  words


Muzaffarnagar, Apr 6 (IBNS):  Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav
on Sunday visited  Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh where he attacked Bharatiya
Janata Party (BJP)'s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi and said he did
nothing for the riots victims in his Gujarat.

Muzaffarnagar witnessed riots last year which left  60 people dead and close to
40,000 homeless.         "The riots which took place here were unfortunate,"
Yadav said while addressing a rally here.         "The Uttar Pradesh government
had helped and provided assistance to the victims... In this country, such huge
amount was never given as relief to riot victims in the country before," he
said.         Slamming Narendra Modi over the 2002 riots in Gujarat, Yadav said:
" The people of India are now doing Modi Modi. How many lives did Modi take?
The Gujarat government did not even give a single rupee to riot victims."
This was Yadav's first visit to  Muzaffarnagar since riots hit the area last
year.         The infamous Gujarat riots of 2002 left hundreds of Muslims dead,
injured and tortured and came as a blot in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule
in the state.         The riots followed an incident of train burning in Godhra
in which Hindus returning from Ayodhya were killed by a Muslim mob.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond accused of 'gloating' over riots

BYLINE: Lorraine Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words


Alex Salmond was yesterday accused of making political capital out of the riots
in England after he insisted that the outbreaks of violence should be described
as "English" rather than "UK" riots. He claimed that Scottish society had
escaped trouble because it was different in character.

Labour, Tory and Liberal Democrat politicians united in condemnation of the
First Minister's comments, with one charging him with "gloating" over the
violence south of the border.

Mr Salmond had complained about the violent scenes being labelled as "UK riots"
despite the absence of disturbances in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. He
said that by describing the problem as UK-wide, broadcasters increased the
likelihood of copycat action and could damage Scotland's reputation as a tourism
destination. His comments appeared to have been heeded by the BBC, which changed
its description of the riots to "English" rather than "UK", although Sky News
continued to use the title "UK riots".

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, Mr Salmond said: "We know we have a different
society in Scotland, and one of my frustrations was to see this being described
on BBC television and Sky as riots in the UK. Until such time we do have a riot
in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, said the First Minister was
guilty of seeking "narrow political advantage" from the unrest south of the
Border. He added: "Scotland is not free from social tensions and community
disorder, and instead of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the
First Minister's efforts would be better spent addressing those deeprooted
issues here."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, said: "The First Minister's reaction to
the riots is small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most
important thing was that they should be called 'English Riots' on TV. Surely he
could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities devastated
by this criminal violence first and foremost."

The Conservative MP David Mundell, the Scotland Office Minister, added: "What is
unhelpful is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of
a terrible situation. It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated
by media descriptions of 'riots in the UK' as if that was the most pressing
issue we currently face."

A spokesman for the Scottish Government spokesman defended Mr Salmond's
comments. "It is also important that a proper picture is painted
internationally, so that people know that Scotland remains a safe tourist
destination, especially at a time when so many visitors from abroad are due to
be in Scotland for the Edinburgh Festivals and other events," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond: "Scots are different"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Ajit: Muzaffarnagar riots were political

BYLINE: Ruhi Tewari 2

LENGTH: 253  words

DATELINE: Agra


Alleging that the riots in Muzaffarnagar last year were a "conspiracy" by the
BJP and the ruling Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief and union minister
Ajit Singh on Thursday termed them "political riots".



Addressing a rally in Agra, Singh said, "They weren't communal riots, they were
political riots. It was a conspiracy by the SP and the BJP to divide the people
and reap political advantage."

Singh, who launched a scathing attack on SP, BJP and Mayawati's BSP, said this
country will not survive if riots continue to take place like this.

The Muzaffarnagar riots in September had shaken the Jat-Muslim social base of
the party. While many RLD Jat supporters felt Ajit Singh did not back them
enough in their conflict with Muslims, many Muslim supporters alleged RLD did
not do enough to restrain Jat supporters from engineering violence.

Interestingly, Singh chose the same venue where BJP's PM candidate Narendra Modi
had addressed a rally in November last year. The RLD chief, however, was quick
to claim he had drawn such an impressive crowd at the same venue that BJP
leaders would now "lose sleep". "Tonight BJP leaders will not be able to sleep
after seeing the crowds here. This proves people will not fall into Modi's
trap," he said.

Lashing out at the Akhilesh Yadav government, Singh said there was no law and
order or infrastructure development in the state. "UP has not one, but five CMs
with all the different power centres. But the one who sits in the chair can be
counted as just half a CM," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Program to include race riot documentary viewing

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 217 words


A documentary on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, "Springfield Had No Shame,"
will be shown during a special program at 5 p.m. Wednesday in the multi-purpose
room of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, Sixth and Jefferson streets.

The event is free and open to the public.

The 30-minute film will be followed by several presentations relating to the
riot. Local singer/songwriter Chas Blythe will provide musical selections he has
written about the riot.

Author Melinda McDonald will read excerpts from her book "Water and Fire," which
focuses on a young woman, Sheba Tully, who is a maid for Susan Lawrence Dana.
The book follows Sheba as she observes the events in Springfield leading up to
the 1908 race riot.

Author Dennis Camp will give a presentation on poet and author Vachel Lindsay
and his relationship to the riot. Lindsay artifacts from the ALPL's collection
will be displayed during the evening.

The June 18 program is related to the exhibit, "Something So Horrible: The
Springfield Race Riot of 1908," which opens Saturday at the ALPL.

New volunteer orientation for anyone who is interested will be held at 5:30 p.m.
Tuesday in the ALPL classroom. Training sessions following the orientation will
be held June 24 and July 1 and 8, all at 5:30 p.m., in the library multi-purpose
room.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Race riots guilty plea;
Warilla man faces court, teen denies lifesaver assault

BYLINE: MEGAN LEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words


A WARILLA man has admitted taking part in the Cronulla race riots in December
last year.

Craig Patrick Sala, 20, pleaded guilty in Sutherland Local Court yesterday to a
charge of participating in a riot, after earlier denying the charge.

However the case was adjourned while police and Sala's lawyers agree on a
statement of facts about his role.

Sala was one of 20 suspects police released photographs of earlier this year in
a bid to shame them into coming forward. Sala was the first to do so, and was
charged with one count of riot and one of affray.

At the time of the riots, Sala was living in Cronulla and was a trade assistant
contractor at Kurnell.

In earlier appearances Sala, of Helen St, pleaded guilty to the affray charge
but not guilty to riot.

He will appear again on November 16.

Meanwhile, a Sydney teenager accused of sparking the riots by assaulting a
lifesaver had turned his back on his culture and on Australia, a magistrate said
yesterday.

Ali Osman, 18, of Bankstown, was sentenced to 300 hours community service after
pleading not guilty to the assault at North Cronulla Beach on December 4, 2005.

The attack triggered the December 11 Cronulla riot, involving a crowd of up to
5000, during which people of Middle Eastern appearance were chased and attacked.

Subsequent retaliatory attacks forced hundreds of police to virtually lock down
some of Sydney's eastern suburbs.

In Sutherland Local Court yesterday, Magistrate Jacqueline Trad, herself of
Lebanese heritage, reprimanded Osman for not respecting the sacrifices those who
had migrated to Australia to flee intolerance had made.

"By your conduct you have turned your back on your family, your culture and your
real country (Australia) - all for the sake of some juvenile, impulsive and
misplaced allegiance," she said.

"Over the last 100 years or so, the ancestors of many citizens - mine included -
came to this country seeking refuge from hatred, intolerance, violence or just
simply the opportunity to improve their families' prospects." But NSW Opposition
Leader Peter Debnam said that by failing to jail Osman, the court had shown the
Government tolerated violence.

"Instead of getting jailed, he got a talking to," Mr Debnam said.

"It sends a very strong message to young thugs in NSW that any violence will be
tolerated.

"It's no wonder that the community is very concerned that the judiciary is
totally out of touch with reality." Osman faced a maximum of two years in jail,
but Ms Trad said the non-custodial sentence would help him re-engage with the
community.

He was sentenced to 300 hours for assault occasioning actual bodily harm and to
200 hours for affray, with the sentences to be served concurrently.

His counsel said he would appeal.

Osman claimed police had arrested the wrong man and he was an innocent
bystander, the court was told.

Osman's lawyer Garry Gillett said one police witness testified there were 10 to
15 people in the same Wests Tigers football shorts as Osman was said to be
wearing, while 150 males had similar ethnicity and hairstyles.

He was photographed 10 minutes afterwards on the beach "with not a worry in the
world".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Court: A man has pleaded guilty to taking part in the Cronulla
riots, while a Sydney teenager has been sentenced for assaulting a lifesaver.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

London riot report shows it's a rather complex issue

BYLINE:

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 696  words


Last August I wrote a column on the Tottenham riots in London, England.

In that column I suggested that poverty and ongoing racial tension with the
police fuelled the riots. That position was seen by one reader of this paper as
insensitive to victims and empathizing with the criminals.

Now the Citizens Inquiry into the Tottenham Riots has released its report. The
study is based on interviews with over 700 people, and is part of a larger
research study called Reading the Riots conducted by the Guardian newspaper and
the London School of Economics.

The report concludes that high levels of youth unemployment and toxic relations
with the police were key factors in the riots. Such conclusion will not persuade
anyone who thinks that riots are caused by criminals, but that perception will
not solve the problems or prevent riots from happening again.

The citizens report was written by a panel of nine commissioners. It paints a
picture of a community felt beset by the police, and suffering from
discrimination by a policy of stop and search.

This hostility erupted into violence after the police shooting of Mark Duggan.
The government was quick to blame gangs and social media, but the Reading the
Riots study says this was mistaken.

Media reports quote the 'stop and search' as disrespectful and that it targeted
youth and ethnic minorities. Subsequent government and police reviews have
recommended revising the policy, and also encouraging more ethnic diversity
among the police.

Many reports at the time suggested cutbacks to youth centres and youth
unemployment were other important factors in the riots. The citizens report
recommends youth centre funding be restored, and that money be devoted to
creating 1,000 new jobs for those between 16-24.

At the time of the riots, Paul Lewis, writing in the Guardian, reported there
were 10,000 jobless and only several hundred vacancies in the area.

From a criminological point of view, these are all relevant factors in
determining why people riot, but it is also important to know why they don't.
The citizens inquiry interviewed youth who chose not to riot, and they said it
was because of their ties with family and community.

This is called cohesion, and social capital, and it can be built up or it can be
torn down. Explanations which highlight only criminal opportunism are
individualistic and simplistic, and will never get at the underlying cause of
problems or their solutions.

Joblessness, inadequate and unaffordable housing, unemployment, cuts in youth
centre funding, increases in education tuition, increases in food costs, and
toxic relations with the police, combined, yes, with criminal opportunism,
fuelled the riots.

In a major media piece called Reading the Riots, Investigating England's Summer
of Disorder, readers commented on the various inquiries into the causes of the
riots. Not surprisingly, there is a wide range of opinion in the more than 1,000
comments.

Using pseudonyms, some readers said it is too easy to blame the police, and that
the rioters all had criminal records.

Others said that while the rioting and looting cannot be excused, alienation
among youth was an important factor. Someone posted the quotation from Martin
Luther King that says "A riot is the language of the unheard."

At the end of the day, we have the riots, and we have the interpretation of the
riots. The latter is important because it determines how we as a society react
to mass behaviour.

The protests over the G8, the protests against tuition, and the actions of the
police and government in the face of those inequalities are part of the puzzle
too.

As one commentator, 'sjwells53' noted, there is a difference between social
science research and moralizing.

We can read this report and find its conclusions informative as to the causes of
the riots, and still find the rioting reprehensible. It is not about adopting a
right-wing explanation, 'rioters are scum,' or a left-wing one, 'society is to
blame.'

It is about understanding a complex issue, no matter how difficult that may be
for what it reflects on our society.

Chris McCormick teaches criminology at St. Thomas University. His column appears
every second Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday

Events to commemorate 1908 riots

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 370 words


Several organizations have announced Springfield Race Riot of 1908 commemoration
events or plans.

An early overview includes:

* A lecture by Jim Loewen, 10:30 a.m., Nov. 11, Abraham Lincoln Unitarian
Universalist Congregation, 745 Woodside Road.

* "An Organized Resistance: How African-Americans Defended their Life, Liberty
and Property during the Springfield, Illinois, Race Riots of 1908," presented by
Anthony Landis at the Illinois State Historical Society's Statehood Day history
symposium, Dec. 1, Howlett Building Auditorium, Second and Edwards streets. Call
525-2781 for more information.

The ISHS also is planning to discuss the riot at its 28th annual history
symposium at Millikin University in Decatur, March 13-15.

* "An American Dream." The Illinois Symphony Orchestra performs selections of
19th-century and civil rights-era music interspersed with readings of works by
Lincoln and civil rights leaders. 7 p.m., Feb. 11, University of Illinois at
Springfield's Sangamon Auditorium.

The event will be co-sponsored by the Springfield Branch of the NAACP and the
Abraham Lincoln Association.

A Feb. 13 performance is also scheduled in Bloomington-Normal.

The NAACP's Springfield Branch is planning several additional events
commemorating the riot and celebrating its own 100th year.

* The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library will feature a temporary exhibit on
the race riot from June 2008 through March 2009. During that time, the
presidential library and museum also will host various events related to the
riots.

* UIS will plan events examining the riot throughout the 2008-09 academic term,
including lectures open to the public that will focus on such themes as social
inequity, division and intolerance.

An art exhibit, an event featuring a nationally known speaker and _a Web site
listing riot-related events, co-sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential
Library and Museum, are in the planning stages.

* The Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau is creating its own Web site
listing riot-related events, working with a Chicago advertising firm to draw
national attention to the riot's historical significance and creating a DVD
version of a documentary available now only on videotape.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                Final C Edition

Chaos attracts international attention, and leaves city with black eye

BYLINE: Medha, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 379  words


Vancouver's international reputation has been tarnished.

Media around the world carried reports of the riots that erupted after the
Canucks' Stanley Cup loss Wednesday night and most of them were a scathing
indictment of the city.

The Atlantic, based in Washington D.C., wrote: "In Syria they riot for freedom.
In Pakistan they riot against drone strikes. In China they riot about many
things, most recently in the Guangdong province for worker's rights. But in
Canada, which is officially ranked as one of the wealthiest and most peaceful
nations in the world, they riot over, yes, hockey."

"Angry drunken fans running wild" was top news at USA Today, while Trouble in
Vancouver's Streets After Defeat was a headline on The New York Times' website.
USA Today's website sounded a further warning with, "Vancouver hockey riots
highlight need for traveller awareness."

The UK's The Guardian also highlighted the violent mood in the city after the
game. In addition, the newspaper's website carried an opinion piece by B.C.
musician Matthew Good, who said, "The pointless riots that followed the Canucks'
defeat make a mockery of Vancouver's claims to be a world class city."

One headline on the L.A. Times sports blog read, Vancouver riots show darker
side of feel-good host city of 2010 Winter Olympics, while Time magazine's
website was even more graphic with Vancouver Riots: Hockey Fans Stick It to
Their Own City.

Rick Antonson, CEO of Tourism Vancouver, agreed that the city's reputation had
been compromised by the events of Wednesday night and that the afterglow of the
Olympics has been dulled.

"It is deplorable that those who did this, did it wearing Canuck T-shirts, when
they are just not representative of hockey fans or the people of Vancouver,"
Antonson said. "But these are the images that the world got to see and these are
the images that they will believe in."

His view is that this will have a definite effect on tourism in the short-term
and hard work will be needed to repair the damage.

B.C. Minister of Tourism Pat Bell felt that though the rioting was unfortunate,
it was isolated.

He hopes that international tourists will understand and that in the long-term,
the post-Olympics reputation of a peaceful, friendly Vancouver will prevail.

medha@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Bosch,  PNG; Vancouver's riots following Game 7 of the Stanley
Cup Final were called 'pointless' in the British press.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

I predict a riot

BYLINE: Keith Flett

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 542 words


Living in Tottenham I have a personal and representative interest in the matters
of predicting riots, but my researches are mostly directed by a conference I'm
organising on the history of riots at the Institute of Historical Research on
February 25. It is a vast subject and a conference will not be able to cover
more than a few issues, but central to it is what we can learn from the history
of such outbursts of anger. In north London over the last six months there has
been no shortage of investigations into riots. There was an official government
riot panel, a citizens' inquiry and the Reading the Riots project sponsored by
the Guardian and the London School of Economics.

This last has some historical framework around it - mainly the riots in US
cities from the 1960s on - but otherwise a historical understanding has been
absent. When history has been referred to, it has been used to underline the
unsurprising but unhelpful thought that while riots in history may have had
important reasons, contemporary ones by definition do not. This view can be
found in the interesting book by Tottenham MP David Lammy, Out Of The Ashes, and
it was also echoed by Eric Hobsbawm in an interview with Jeremy Paxman on BBC
Newsnight. The problem with this view is that when you do look at the history of
riots the key thing is that while the causes may differ the actuality is very
similar. A crowd gathers, a melee occurs, windows are broken, occasionally
properties are burned and even more occasionally people are actually hurt.
Likewise historically - and again this point has contemporary echoes - the state
has been quite reluctant to intervene. A local figure of authority, a judge for
example, arguing with rioters that they were better off not rioting has possibly
had more impact than the use of force. Definitions of what constitutes a riot -
even before the Riot Act was abolished in 1973 - were less than clear on what
exactly was supposed to happen in the hour between its reading and the
authorities actually dispersing any remaining rioters. Equally problematic was
how much force could legally be deployed, again echoed recently in debates about
whether the use of water cannon would be appropriate. The issue of whether a
riot can be predicted has become one of some importance. Historically a division
is drawn between the causes of riots - food shortages, local political issues
and national protests - the nature of the riot that ensues and its
predictability. It has been an issue recently because at the moment only the
police have the power to determine whether a riot has taken place or not. If
they decide it has then they or the state are liable for any costs that have
arisen has a result of damage to property. If it has not then insurers must
carry the liability under policies which exclude rioting from being a cause of
paying out. If you look at the appropriate historical texts, it is envisaged
that certain situations may well need lead to riots. For example in Lewes in
1857 there was a riot because a funeral was delayed by an hour. An account of
the event notes that everyone knew that if such delays occurred than a riot
would occur. But I doubt if the police will be looking at history books to
determine the matter.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            East Anglian Daily Times

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

Who pays for riot damage?

BYLINE: Duncan Brodie

SECTION: BIZZ

LENGTH: 453 words


WILL OAKES of Attwells Solicitors explains the financial help which may be
available to those who had property damaged during the recent riots

ALTHOUGH the riots earlier this month did not directly affect East Anglia, there
are many people within the region who have property in London and other cities
whose interests have been affected.



Indeed Attwells' Solicitors, whose head office is in Ipswich, has a branch
office in St Johns Wood in north London which was fortunately untouched by the
riots but inundated by clients seeking advice on their legal position.

Following the riots, the Government has made announcements with regards to the
assistance that is now available. This includes a fund available to local
authorities so that they can offer relief from business rates for businesses in
their area affected during the riots.

The Government has urged the Valuation Office Agency and local authorities to
remove damaged homes and businesses from their valuation lists as soon as
possible thereby removing these premises' liability to Council Tax and business
rates.

Ministers have also asked local authorities to give priority to planning
applications in relation to riot-damaged properties, and consideration is also
being given to whether shutters and security measures should be included as
"permitted development", so avoiding the need for planning permission.

The Riot Damages Act 1886 still remains in force and effect and Section 2(1) of
the Act provides: "where a home, shop or building in a police area has been
injured or destroyed, or the property therein has been injured, stolen or
destroyed by any persons riotously or tumultuously assembled together,
compensation shall be paid out of the police fund of the area to any person who
has sustained loss by such injury, stealing or destruction". Compensation is not
available for costs which flow from a delay caused by the riots.

The definition of a riot is contained in the Public Order Act 1986 and will
depend upon whether or not the police have identified the disturbance as a riot.
If the Riot Act applies then a claim can be made for compensation from a local
police authority.

The Government has now increased the period under which a claim can be made to
the police authority from 14 days to 42 days (Riot (Damages) (Amendment)
Regulations 2011 (SI 2011/2002),

The Government has also simplified the process for making a claim by removing
the requirements for specific information to be on the claim form or for the
claim form to be in a specified form (Riot (Damages) (Amendment No 2)
Regulations 2011 (SI 2011/2009)).

The Mayor of London has also committed £50million for investment in the high
streets in the capital affected during the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                February 6, 2012

Almost 200 arrests made over riots

BYLINE: Hermione Wright

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 167  words


Nearly 200 people in Haringey have been arrested for their part in the August
riots six months ago.

The riots, which started in Tottenham on August 6, have led to 198 arrests
throughout the borough so far, with 132 people being charged or receiving a
summons.

The number could rise, as there are currently 534 arrests and 149 charges made
across London that have yet been assigned to a borough.

Darra Singh, chair of the independent riots communities and victims panel, said:
"It has been six months since the riots started in Tottenham in August and
spread throughout the country with unprecedented speed.

"Half a year on we must not forget about the communities and victims who were
seriously affected by the disorder and who are still working to re-build their
lives."

Mr Singh added that the panel would like to hear from anyone affected by the
riots, or who has evidence about the events last August.

There have been 3,864 arrests made throughout London in relation to the riots
over the past six months.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

The riot act becomes an instrument for all reasons, and China tackles corruption

BYLINE: CUT & PASTE

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 569 words


From Canberra to Syria, from Rio to Yorkshire, the Riot Act of George I comes in
handy

Former lawyer Malcolm Turnbull gets stern with his MPs and tells Neil Mitchell
on Melbourne's 3AW: I've read the riot act to them, their colleagues will all
read the riot act to them, they'll get the riot act read to them more often than
just about anyone could imagine.

Proclamation of riotous assembly under the Riot Act of 1714: Our sovereign lord
the King chargeth and commandeth all persons, being assembled, immediately to
disperse themselves, and peaceably to depart to their habitations, or to their
lawful business, upon the pains contained in the act made in the first year of
King George, for preventing tumults and riotous assemblies. God save the King.

Skid Row in Riot Act, from the 1991 album Slave to the Grind: Stop readin' me
the riot act / While my brains are still intact / You say it's raining, but
you're pissin' down my back / So stop readin' me the riot act

There's a mob called Riotact.com in Canberra, one that creates conversations.
Its mission: We want to provide the Canberra community with a quality source of
independent and informative local news, while providing a friendly public forum
for Canberrans to share their views on issues that matter to them.

Olympic Games chef de mission in Rio de Janeiro Kitty Chiller was so concerned
about rugby sevens players being drunk: Yes, I read them the riot act.

It's a handy instrument, this riot act, and can even be applied to English
soccer, according to the Yorkshire Evening Post on August 15: Sol Bamba admitted
that Garry Monk was right to read the riot act after Leeds United's first home
game of the season ended in a 2-1 defeat to Birmingham City and a furious
reaction from their head coach.

In fact it's handy for all occasions. The Guardian on August 8, 2011: The
foreign secretary, William Hague, admitted last week there was not much more
Britain could do to halt the Syrian crackdown, while his US counterpart, Hillary
Clinton, has been reduced to counting the dead. But Turkey, Syria's more
powerful neighbour, is less supine. It is sending its foreign minister to
Damascus on Tuesday to read the riot act to Syria's gore-soaked president,
Bashar al-Assad.

An ill omen, perhaps? The Australian Financial Review on June 2 last year:
(Tony) Abbott told the weekly meeting of MPs and senators â[#x20ac]¦ he had read
the riot act to the cabinet â[#x20ac]¦ after details from last week's meeting,
in which Mr Abbott was rolled over an issue of national security, were leaked to
The Sydney Morning Herald.

The International Business Times reported on China's new penalties for
corruption in April: China has announced new rules governing the use of the
death penalty in corruption cases, setting the threshold at 3 million yuan, or
$463,000. Anyone found guilty of embezzlement or taking bribes of this amount or
more - in "extremely serious cases" that have an "extremely vile impact" - will
face the death penalty.

That was a month before the BBC published corruption statistics: China's ruling
Communist Party says it punished nearly 300,000 officials last year for
corruption â[#x20ac]¦ 200,000 were given "light punishment".

British Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has defended his appearances on Iranian
state-controlled television in Britain's The Times:(His fee) of Â£20,000 "wasn't
an enormous amount, actually". About 45 per cent of Britons earn Â£20,000 or
less a year.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

BJP reads Congress the riot act

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 27 -- To neutralise the attack on Narendra Modi and the Gujarat
riots, BJP think-tank PPRC prepares a comparative document that reveals a
horrifying chronicle of communal violence under non-BJP governments.

Death and destruction are staple fodder for demagogues to ignite popular
passions during elections. Riots are the stormy petrels of confrontationist
politics and are used by mainstream parties, especially Congress, to capitalise
on minority insecurity. In spite of Rahul Gandhi's faux pas on Muzaffarnagar
youth being contacted by ISI after last month's riots, Congress pipers continue
to play a single tune-'Narendra Modi's hands are stained with blood of 2002
Gujarat riot victims.'

With seven months to go for the 2014 general elections, strategists on both
sides are at work to change the political discourse for political gains. To
counter the Congress gameplan to target Modi on the Gujarat riots, the BJP's
newly minted think-tank, Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC), re-launched on
October 21 and headed by director Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has drafted a nine-page
document on the history of communal riots in India. The well researched document
suggests that the communal record of Congress governments and that of other
non-BJP parties is far worse than Modi's one time taint and the Gujarat riots
should not been seen in isolation.

The research paper entitled 'A Factsheet on Communal Riots in India' documents
the history of sectarian violence in India, which it states has become a
"permanent phenomenon after the 1960s" due to politics of "vote bank and
appeasement."

It goes on to record India's long history of communal strife. As the purpose of
the document is to counter the 'secular 'offensive on Narendra Modi, the think
tank has presented a comparative study of causes and responsibilities regarding
other major riots including the 1983 Nellie Massacre, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
and the Ahmedabad riots of 1969. The comparative graph forms a virtual arsenal
to attack the Congress's failed record of maintaining communal stability in
states it has ruled. In the 1983 Nellie Massacre (result of clash es between
ethnic Assamese and Bangladeshi settlers) 1,819 Muslims were killed on Congress
watch. During the 1984 Delhi riots that followed Indira Gandhi's assassination,
around 2,733 Sikhs were butchered. In the 1969 Ahmedabad riots in Congress-ruled
Gujarat triggered by an attack on a temple, the toll was 512.

More: Saffron study nails congress's riot governance

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Crown seeks to televise riot cases; Spokesman says it may be first time in B.C.
application made to broadcast court proceedings

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 274  words


The Crown gave notice in court Wednesday that the attorney general wants to
televise proceedings involving accused Stanley Cup rioters.

Prosecutor Patti Tomasson told a judge that the Crown would apply to have the
proceedings televised involving people accused of participating in the June 15
riot. B.C. Premier Christy Clark has said she wants to see riot-related court
proceedings televised for the public.

The prosecutor gave notice Wednesday at the bail hearing of Ryan Dickinson, who
remains in custody. His case was adjourned until Friday at 9 a.m. at Vancouver
Provincial Court.

Dickinson is accused of participating in a riot, mischief and breaching his
undertaking.

Seven other riot-related accused were scheduled to appear Wednesday in Vancouver
provincial court.

They are: Spencer Kirkwood, Oliver Burke, Anthony Larsen, Matthew Lennox, Jeff
Post, Robert Snelgrove and Sophie Laboissonniere. Laboissonniere, 20, reportedly
won the title of Miss Congeniality at the recent Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

She is accused of taking part in the looting of the London Drugs store during
the riot as well as break-and-enter and participating in a riot.

Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said outside court Wednesday that he believes it
is the first time the Crown has applied to broadcast court proceedings.

He said the Crown has assigned one prosecutor to handle the broadcast
applications.

There are five prosecutors assigned to handle the riot cases. So far, the Crown
has approved riot-related charges against 27 people.

The Crown is still assessing another two dozen files of accused people that
Vancouver police have recommended should be charged.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     November 4, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Fundamental difference exists between 2002 Gujarat Riot and 1984 Anti-Sikh Riot:
Gogoi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 378  words


Guwahati, Nov 4 (IBNS): Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said that the
assassination of Indira Gandhi and the riot that took place as an after affect
are very condemnable. Likewise, the 2002 Gujarat Riot is equally condemnable.

However, there exists a fundamental difference between 2002 Gujarat Riot and
1984 Anti-Sikh Riot. In 2002 Gujarat Riot, it is alleged that State Government
fuelled it, while there is no such allegation against the involvement of Rajiv
Gandhi led Central Government in 1984 Anti-Sikh Riot. In a statement, Gogoi said
that initially the needle of suspicion of Gujarat Riot was towards Modi
Government, however, later it was proved evident. Gogoi said that the CBI
charge-sheeted the then Home Minister of Modi Government Amit Shah and another
ministerial colleague Maya Kodnani was arrested for their involvement in
orchestrating plot against religious minorities. Alleging direct complicity of
Narendra Modi in the infamous Gujarat Riot, the USA denied him VISA. The Assam
CM said that after the assassination of Indira Gandhi, Anti-Sikh Riot that broke
out as an after affect, no allegation has been levelled of the involvement of
the Central Government led by Rajiv Gandhi. On the day of her (Indira Gandhis)
assassination, Rajiv Gandhi had summoned the leaders of the AICC to contain and
control the situation to maintain peace and tranquility in all the States. After
he took charge of Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi initiated special line of action
to maintain peace and tranquillity and peaceful co-existence in the country. He
even asked the then Lieutenant Governor of Delhi about his action plan to
restore normalcy and help the riot victims, Gogoi said. While the leaders of the
AICC were summoned, he was also present there and he himself was aware of the
development when the then Lieutenant Governor was asked about his action plan.
He got the opportunity to witness Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhis sincerity and
commitment to restore peace and normalcy in Delhi and help the riot victims, the
Assam CM said. Gogoi also said that allegations about BJPs involvement in
fuelling Anti-Sikh Riot were also surfaced in the chronology of events that
followed after Indira Gandhis assassination in the capital. (Reporting by
Hemanta Kumar Nath)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2015 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

'UP riots underscore need of police reforms'

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 379 words


NEW DELHI: The political complicity in the Muzaffarnagar riots, as revealed by a
TV news channel's sting operation, underscores the need for the much-delayed
police reforms in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere in the country. This was the joint
message on Wednesday from civil society groups fighting for the implementation -
"in letter and spirit" - of the 2006 Supreme Court judgment on police reforms,
which seek to insulate the law enforcement machinery from political
interference.

"These Muzaffarnagar riots are an absolute replica of so many of the riots that
have stained our country, including the Delhi riots of 1984 and the Gujarat
riots of 2002," said Maja Daruwala of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative
(CHRI).

"This manufactured hatred is becoming a template for cynical politicians. The
same provocative speeches, the same wink and nod to let the killing, loot and
arson go on, then the same assurances of accountability that are all planned to
melt when public memory fades," Daruwala said.

Retired police officer Kiran Bedi, representing Members of the People's Police
Campaign, said: "A careful balance has to be struck between legitimate
supervision of the police by the police executive and illegitimate interference
and influence that has been so blatantly visible in Muzaffarnagar."

On the brighter side, activists appreciated the initiative taken by a Supreme
Court bench headed by Justice G S Singhvi to break the deadlock on police
reforms. Kamal Jaiswal of Common Cause warned that judicial efforts were
unlikely to bear fruit "until there was sufficient popular pressure on political
parties to implement police reforms".

The police too had a stake in the reforms mandated by the Supreme Court because
those willing to stand up to extraneous pressures would be provided with a
remedy in the event of political vendetta. An aggrieved police officer will then
be able to approach the state police commission, duly empowered to undo any
unjust or politically motivated action taken against him.

Police reforms campaigners said although several states had nominally appointed
those commissions, the situation remained the same because of deficiencies in
the powers conferred on the watchdog bodies or their flawed composition.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

Delhi Court reopens 1984 anti-Sikh riots case against Jagdish Tytler

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, April 11 -- A Delhi court on Wednesday ordered reopening of a 1984
anti-Sikh riots case against Congress leader Jagdish Tytler setting aside the
trial court order accepting a CBI closure report giving him a clean chit.

Tytler was among the three prominent leaders named in the reports on the
anti-Sikh riots. The other two leaders named were Sajjan Kumar and the late H K
L Bhagat.

The 1984 riots had claimed the lives of more than 3,000 Sikhs. The riots were
triggered following the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi
on October 31, 1984, by her two Sikh bodyguards at her residence.

The Government of India had reported 2,700 deaths in the riots. It further said
that 20,000 people had fled the city following the riots.

Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj, setting aside the
order of a magisterial court, has directed the CBI to examine the eye-witnesses
and people who have information about the riots.

The ASJ said: "The order of the trial court accepting the closure report of the
CBI is set aside."

"The CBI is directed to conduct the investigation and examine the claimants and
eye-witnesses in the case," the judge ruled.

The court passed the order on a petition filed by riot victims challenging the
order of the trial court accepting the CBI's closure report in 2009.

Senior counsel H S Phoolka, who appeared for petitioner Lakhwinder Kaur, whose
husband was killed in the riots, had submitted to the court of the ASJ that
there was enough material against Tytler which the probe agency had ignored. He
said there was evidence before the trial court against Tytler. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Azam tells House only two riots in 22 months; BSP, BJP walk out

LENGTH: 401  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Opposition BSP and BJP Monday staged a walkout from the state Assembly alleging
that the state government has failed to check incidents of communal violence and
lodged cases against innocent people in Muzaffarnagar riots.

The matter was raised during Question Hour by Congress member Nadeem Javed, who
sought to know from the government about the number of riots which took place in
the state between March 2013 and December 2014 and action taken against the
guilty.

In reply, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Azam Khan informed that only two riots
had taken place in the the said period. He said 477 cases were registered in
Muzaffarnagar riots and 1,359 accused were identified out of which 1,046 have
been arrested while 298 surrendered in the court. In Saharanpur riots, 237 cases
were registered in which 229 accused have been identified while 99 have been
arrested. Two have surrendered in the court while charge sheets have been filed
in 19 cases.

In his supplementary, Nadeem Javed said that 247 riots were witnessed in the
state, maximum in the country, during the period. Azam Khan, however, countered
him saying 50,000 riots had taken place during Congress regime.

BJP's Suresh Rana claimed that in Muzaffarnagar riots, FIRs were lodged against
11 persons, who were not alive during the riots. He said innocents were booked
and nearly 549 such people are languishing in jail. Azam, however, countered
that "some riot-accused move in government security and some have even reached
Parliament".

BJP's Suresh Khanna demanded constitution of a high level committee for taking
up the case of innocent people languishing in jail for Muzaffarnagar riots. Azam
turned it down stating that BJP had opposed communal violence bill in Parliament
and hence their intentions are not clear.

"You bring a bill in parliament to release all the accused, rioters and
murderers. There should be some yardstick for being innocent. Cases are in
court. There is no such incident of forming a committee. Such a committee should
be formed for Gujarat riots," Azam said.Unsatisfied with the reply, BJP staged a
walkout.

Leader of opposition Swami Prasad Maurya blamed the government for not being
serious over the issue.

Azam, however, stated that Samajwadi Party government believes in rule of law
unlike in BSP regime when doctors were murdered inside jail. Unsatisfied with
the reply, BSP also staged a walk out from the assembly.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

MORE ARRESTS FOLLOW RIOT

BYLINE:  DAVID BANCROFT

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 272  words



HIGHLIGHT: Girl, 14, one of three charged over the weekend


A 14-YEAR-OLD girl is one of the latest to be charged following the Valentine's
Day riot in Yamba that left two police officers injured and a police vehicle
worth an estimated $130,000 destroyed.

She was refused bail when she made a brief appearance in the Children's Court in
Grafton yesterday charged with riot-related offences including malicious damage
by fire, incite to assault police, riot and destroy or damage property. She is
due to appear in court again on March 29.

The Yamba teen was one of three riot-related arrests over the weekend.

Matthew John Newell, 18, of Redfern, was also arrested in relation to the
February 14 incident and charged with riot, damage property, and intimidation of
police. He was also charged with custody of knife in a public place.

He was refused bail to appear in court May 3.

And a 21-year-old man was charged with breaching riot-related bail.

Coffs/Clarence crime manager Cameron Lindsay said the arrests were part of a
number in Yamba over the weekend as part of a high-visibility policing operation
code named Vikings.

He said that on Friday night two people were arrested in relation to the riot,
but there was also a person charged with drink driving, another with special
range drink driving and a third with assault.

"We plan to continue this high-visibility policing in Yamba for some time," Insp
Lindsay said.

The charges stem from a wild night in Yamba late on February 13 and early
February 14.

It's alleged that when police went to issue a noise abatement notice, their
police vehicle was pelted with rocks, bottles and pavers. Fifteen people were
arrested on the night, with 13 charged.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDE


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                             August 2, 2015 Sunday

'Riot accused not prosecuted with Same Zeal as Yakub Memon': Justice Srikrishna

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Aug. 2 -- Amid the rising debate around following the execution of
Mumbai serial blast convict Yakub Memon, whether justice has been selective and
continues to remain elusive for those who were murdered during the '92 Mumbai
riots.

"State Didn't Prosecute Mumbai Riot Accused With Same Zeal as Yakub Memon", said
Justice BN Srikrishna.

Justice B M Srikrishna, who headed the one-man commission that inquired into the
93 Mumbai riots, said that the state had been "remiss" and had opted not to
investigate even cases where serious prima facie evidence existed.

Justice Sri krishna, whose report was especially critical of role played by Shiv
Sena and its chief Bal Thackrey in Mumbai riots, told a leading news channel
that "Those who wielded power" had shown an evident bias in not probing the riot
cases in which 900 people killed with the same energy as they had shown in
convicting those responsible for the blasts in which 257 people were killed.

The Srikrishna Commission was set up by the Maharashtra government to
investigate incidents of widespread rioting from December 6 to 10, 1992 and
January 6 to 20, 1993 and damage and loss to the city during that period. One of
the terms of reference for the commission was to see if the riots and the blasts
were connected. The riots left 900 dead.

In his inquiry report, Justice Srikrishna concluded that there was one: "One
common link between the riots of December 1992 and January 1993 and bomb blasts
of 12th March 1993 appears to be that the former appear to have been a causative
factor for the latter.

"I can only wish that there would one day be justice for 1992 riots as well,"
said, Justice SriKrishna.

"The riots happened on the watch of the Congress-NCP government. No party has
made an effort to take action on the findings of commission", said Krishna.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Seven new riot suspects charged

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 433  words


Crown counsel has approved 18 charges against seven more alleged Stanley Cup
rioters.

Vancouver police made the announcement Monday at the corner of Davie and Nicola
streets in the West End, where a bus shelter is now the latest billboard in the
police campaign to have the public identify as many rioters as possible.

"This is all about driving people back to the web-site," said Insp. Les Yeo,
commanding officer of the Integrated Riot Investigation Team, asking the public
once again to identify protesters pictured at riot2011. vpd.ca. Ten of the
bright-coloured posters, proclaiming "Busted! Riot Roundup 2," are being
displayed at bus shelters across the city.

Yeo announced a series of new charges against seven individuals, only three of
whom can be named. The other four suspects - including a young woman - are young
offenders and can't be identified publicly.

Willmar Ovando-Renderos, 24, of Surrey faces charges of participating in a riot,
breaking-and-entering and disguise with intent.

Bradley Peters, 20, of Mission is charged with participating in a riot, along
with three counts of mischief.

Richard MacMillan, 26, of Vancouver faces charges of participating in a riot and
mischief.

The most serious charges faced by the young offenders involve a 17-year-old Port
Coquitlam youth, who is charged with participating in a riot, mischief and
break-and-enter.

Facing charges of participating in a riot and mischief are a 16-year-old female
from Burnaby, a 16-year-old male from Burnaby and a 15-year-old male from
Langley.

Police also announced that Emmanuel Alviar, 19, of Surrey is the second riot
suspect to plead guilty. Alviar pleaded guilty to participating in a riot and is
expected to be sentenced on May 3 in Vancouver Provincial Court.

The continuing campaign of recommending charges to Crown counsel continued
Monday, as police announced they are forwarding another 82 recommended charges
against 25 more alleged rioters.

Police said two of those individuals were allegedly involved in assaults on
Robert Mackay, a Good Samaritan who tried to stop the rioters.

Yeo said he understands the public's frustration about how long it's taking to
charge and convict alleged rioters - he feels the same way.

"I'm frustrated by how long it's taken, but that's the system we live in in
British Columbia."

To date, police have recommended 432 charges against 150 suspected rioters.

Crown counsel reviews the files before deciding whether to pursue those
recommended charges.

At this point, Crown has approved 171 criminal charges against 64 suspected
rioters.

iaustin@theprovince.com

twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Leidenfrost, PNG; Insp. Les Yeo shows off a new West End
bus-shelter poster, one of 10 across the city advertising the riot website
riot2011.vpd.ca.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday

'Best alternatives may not often work'

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: India


India, March 4 -- Riots and After in Mumbai by Meena Menon provides a synoptic
record of communal violence in Mumbai, using a novel approach that combines from
Raj era (1893-1945) historical records and personal interviews of both Muslims
and Hindus living in the city. Excerpts from an interview by Books Editor Yogesh
Vajpeyi.

When did you decide to write the book?

The SARAI Independent Fellowship, from the Centre for the Study of Developing
Societies in 2007, provided the initial impetus. The objective was to recover
lost histories of the victims of post Babri Masjid-demolition riots of December
1992 and January 1993. After completing it, I decided to look back at the
history of communal riots in Mumbai by searching through archives. The uproar
over the lack of justice for riot victims and their families became sharper,
after that I decided to write the book.

Did you approach the issue as a historian or a journalist?

Basically as a journalist. But I tried to record statements of riot victims as
truthfully and objectively as possible and did extensive research at the
archives for over a year.

Did you approach the subject with pre-conceived notions?

No, the book is as much an exploration as a journey. It does not aim to offer
any answers, but actually raises more questions.

What was your understanding of the way the state dealt with the riots?

It definitely did not discharge its responsibilities with an appreciable sense
of commitment. The report on this by the Srikrishna Commission contains
voluminous evidence to support this view.

What about rehabilitation and reconciliation measures, after the riots?

In addition to the trauma, riot victims have to contend with the lack of
political will and continued apathy of the state to alleviate their plight.
Shakeel Ahmed, lawyer and activist with Nirbhay Bano Andolan, who has worked
with riot victims, said that 1,358 cases were closed after being found "true but
not detected". The Srikrishna Commission had asked for these cases to be
reopened, but the special task force that was set up scrutinised only 112 cases,
of which eight were reopened. Not a single state official indicted by the
commission has been suspended.

What did the 1992-93 riots do to the city of Mumbai?

These were the worst riots the city had seen. After them, for most Mumbai
residents, the city changed forever. These riots created displacement at an
unprecedented scale, resulting in worsening of communal polarisation.

Has Mumbai lost its cosmopolitan character?

Mumbai was perceived to be a cosmopolitan city. It still is in some ways, but
not in other ways. The city has been affected by dominant ideas of communalism
and nationalism, leading to division and strife. The hope in the minds is not
made up yet, giving the city that faint tinge of togetherness and
cosmopolitanism.

How can the cleavages be bridged?

I offer no solutions. When I heard Mahmood Mamdani, author of Good Muslim Bad
Muslim, talk of reconciliation and the South African experiment, and about a way
in which it could be a model for other communities in conflict, I wondered how
it could be applicable in India. Often, the best alternatives may not work, but
they seem to have realised that. The only thing I'm certain about is that more
violence cannot be the way out of a violent conflict. This is amply clear from
what is happening around the world, be it in Kashmir, Palestine, Afghanistan or
Iraq.

What are the hurdles?

Lack of political will. While there are attempts to bridge gaps between
violence-affected communities, there's been no real political process to bring
them to a middle ground. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday

Lebanese sources report negotiations to end prison riots

LENGTH: 444 words


As of 1400 gmt on 24 April, Beirut Lebanese National News Agency, official
government news agency; Beirut Al-Manar Television in Arabic, affiliated with
the pro-Iranian Hezbollah; Beirut Future News Television in Arabic, a pro-14
March Forces, anti-Syria, all-news channel, owned by Al-Hariri family, have
reported on the breakout of riots at the Rumyah prison in Beirut, the largest
prison facility in Lebanon.

At 1444 gmt, NNA correspondent Ilyas Shahin reported that a strike force has
entered the building where riots erupted in the Rumyah prison, which does not
house any of the Fatah al-Islam detainees or the four officers [who have been
detained in connection with the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq
al-Hariri].

Shahin earlier reported that riots broke out in the Central Prison of Rumyah,
noting that the inmates who were involved in the prison riots, held a number of
military members as hostages.

He added that an Anti-riot force, a Jaguars Force, and a strike force intervened
to quell the riots at a time when fire engines and Civil Defence personnel put
out a fire that broke out in the building.

At 1539 gmt, NNA correspondent Ilyas Shahin reported that the Lebanese security
forces restored calm in one of the buildings where acts of violence occurred,
noting that most inmates who were engaged in riots are Palestinians.

Al-Manar Television led its 1630 gmt newscasts with a report on the prison riots
against footage of smoke billowing from the prison premises.

The station said that the anti-riot police "continue to lay a siege on the
building where acts of riots were staged by approximately 300 prisoners earlier
today." The rioters, Al-Manar said, took seven security personnel as hostages"
at the prison facility."

The station added that Judge John Fahd, the government's representative at the
Military Court, headed to the prison facility at a time when negotiations
between the Police commander and prisoners are still underway.

The station cited "sources" as saying that the rioters are mostly Lebanese, not
Palestinians, as had been earlier reported.

On the demands of the prisoners, the station's correspondent Hakam Amhaz said
that the inmates demanded that the prison conditions be improved and their
sentences be reduced.

At 1905 gmt, the Future News Television's correspondent in the periphery of the
prison facility reported that negotiations are still underway between Judge John
Fahd and Basim al-Alayili who has been designated by the rioter inmates to
discuss the prisoners' demands. She added that "the decision to break into the
prison facility is still on hold pending the outcome of the negotiations."

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

BBC to broadcast banned riots documentaries after Olympic Games

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

Corporation to screen two-part The Riots: In their own Words four weeks after
they were banned by judge in murder trial. By Josh Halliday and Paul Lewis

FULL TEXT

The BBC will broadcast its two-part series on the England riots later this month
- four weeks after the documentaries were banned by a judge presiding over a
high-profile murder trial.

The BBC was forced to cancel the original broadcast of its drama-documentary
series, The Riots: In their own Words, in July following a rare court order made
by Mr Justice Flaux.

Now the BBC has confirmed that The Riots: In their own Words will be broadcast
on 13 and 20 August, following the conclusion of the Olympic Games.

Other media organisations were prevented from reporting the ban until the end of
the trial, in which eight men were cleared of murdering three friends who were
hit by a car during last summer's riots in Birmingham.

The ban was a scheduling nightmare for BBC executives, who planned the
programmes to run just before the first anniversary of the riots on 16 and 18
July. It also meant they were unlikely to be shown for several weeks as the BBC
devoted all of its major channels to the London 2012 Olympics.

The first documentary in the series is a verbatim drama, based on extracts from
anonymous interviews with rioters conducted by the Guardian and London School of
Economics study, Reading the Riots.

The script for the film was produced by the award-winning playwright Alecky
Blythe and the rioters are played by actors.

The second film is a more conventional documentary format, with police officers
talking about their experiences policing the riots.

The BBC last month said it was disappointed with Flaux's ruling and that it
raised a critical point about the freedom of the media to report in the public
interest.

Flaux said the series was "literally littered" with material that could
potentially derail the high-profile trial in Birmingham.

Legal experts described the injunction as "excessive and misconceived".

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                              July 9, 2004 Friday

SOUND WAVES

BYLINE: NATE GUTIERREZ

SECTION: PASATIEMPO; Pg. P-106

LENGTH: 475 words


"We played a fair amount of riots in our day. It was riot season in America,"
writes Motor City Five guitarist Wayne Kramer in his 1999 POPSmear Magazine
article, "Riots I Have Known and Loved."

Kramer and his band lived through the 1967 Detroit race riots before moving to
Ann Arbor because people were getting killed right in their neighborhood, their
girlfriends were being raped and their music equipment was getting stolen.

MC5 played during and incited many riots in the late '60s with its music and
politics. The band played the Festival of Life at the Democratic National
Convention in Lincoln Park, Chicago in 1968 and started a riot. When the group
finally got to play at 4 a.m., the police were ready to pounce. Kramer knew that
if the band stopped playing a riot would start - because he had seen it before -
and it did. "They were coming down on top of us, and the helicopter sound fit in
with what I was playing on guitar," Kramer says in the book Please Kill Me: The
Uncensored Oral History of Punk. That's pretty punk.

Detroit's mix of drag racing and live rock 'n' roll was a part of what inspired
MC5. Members of the band greased their hair back and played loud, loud music.
Kramer worked at a drag strip, and his first experience of rock 'n' roll was
seeing Del Shannon and the Ramrods on the return road at the strip.

MC5 also started the White Panther party with the band's manager John Sinclair.
The quasi-underground White Panthers were "not to be confused with any white
supremacist or white power groups - quite the contrary," writes Sinclair in the
White Panthers' 1968 statement. They started out as a MC5 fan club, and they had
a three-point system: make lots of noise, have lots of sex and do lots of drugs.
Sinclair writes, "We don't have guns yet - not all of us anyway - because we
have more powerful weapons - direct access to millions of teenagers is one of
our most potent, and their belief in us is another."

The Los Angeles chapter of the Black Panthers dismissed members of the MC5 as
"psychedelic clowns," but the Ann Arbor Black Panthers chapter would hang out
with MC5 and shoot guns and drink with the band nonetheless.

According to my buddy and punk-rock connoisseur Willy Neat, Detroit's MC5, along
with Iggy Pop and the Stooges, started punk rock and metal in the late 1960s.
When I told him that MC5 was coming, his eyes got huge, like he just got a brand
new, shiny chrome BB gun for Christmas.

DKT/MC5 (the DKT stands for the remaining members of the group, bassist Michael
Davis, guitarist Wayne Kramer and drummer Dennis Thompson) will be playing at 8
p.m. Saturday, July 10, at the Launchpad in Albuquerque, with guest vocalists
Mark Arm from Mudhoney, the Lemonheads' Evan Dando and Marshall Crenshaw.
SuffraJet and the Dirty Novels open the show. Tickets are $16 in advance at
Natural Sound, 505-255-8295.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1. DKT/MC5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2004 The New Mexican


                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Reasons behind UK riots debated on Iran's Press TV

LENGTH: 280 words


The 20 August edition of "The Agenda" programme on Iran's English-language Press
TV channel debated the role of Britain's youth in the recent riots in the UK and
social reasons behind the unrest, wondering whether "Britain has created a lost
generation".

The programme was hosted by Yvonne Ridley and featured the co-chair of Black
Activists Rising Against Cuts (BARAC), Zita Holbourne, Conservative political
adviser Andre Walker and Sukant Chandan of Sons of Malcolm.

Walker said that he did not agree with the opinion that Britain had a lost
generation. Referring to the recent riots, he said that there is a group of
people in British society who have decided that "being on benefits is easier
than working". He said that rioters acted in a criminal manner and should be
dealt with accordingly.

Meanwhile, Chandan said that the riots were in the context of what the
government has been doing over the last few decades and linked the riots to
de-industrialization and closure of the mining and steel industry. The expert
also linked the riots to racial discrimination, saying that the police are
biased against black people.

In turn, Holbourne said that all young people want to have dreams and
opportunities, but the government has trampled upon those dreams. She said she
did not agree that young people involved in the riots were lazy and idle.
Holbourne went on to link the riots to tripling tuition fees and high
unemployment.

The programme also read out comments from viewers from around the world who
expressed different views on the causes of riots in the UK.

The programme was monitored from the Press TV website.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 1033 gmt 21 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Pakistani TV show discusses UK riots

LENGTH: 1171 words


Geo News TV in Urdu at 1800 gmt on 10 August carries live regularly scheduled
program, "Aapas Ki Baat" hosted by Muneeb Farooq and Najam Sethi. The program
brings in-depth analysis on burning issues faced by Pakistan. Words within
double slanted lines are in English.

Program: "Aapas Ki Baat"

Duration: 60 minutes

Reception: Good

Farooq begins the program referring to London riots. Farooq says that three
Pakistanis have also lost their lives in Birmingham as the riots are no more
confined to London. Farooq adds that today [ 10 August] they will discuss the
cause and background of riots in the United Kingdom. Farooq further says: "Riots
have caused concern among Pakistanis in the United Kingdom. More than 1,000
people have been arrested and around 100 have been indicted by London police so
far. Meanwhile, the United States is facing economic crisis these days." Farooq
adds that they will also discuss the United States' //credit rating//. Farooq
further says that they will discuss whether the domestic economic crisis will
affect President Obama's chances to be elected as president for the second term.

Segment I

Farooq asks Sethi how he views the London riots. Sethi says, "Riots in the
United Kingdom are a historical phenomenon. Though terrorism does not exist in
the United Kingdom but history tells that outbreak of riots is quite usual.
Numerous books are available on the //phenomenon of riots// in the United
Kingdom. Sometimes riots are triggered by football matches as British people are
extremely passionate about football. Another kind of riots in the United Kingdom
are called //Ghetto riots//. These riots are related to immigrants. Some
poverty-stricken immigrants live in specific areas in the United Kingdom.
//Unemployment// and poverty are the main problems of those immigrants. Ghetto
riots take place mostly in industrial cities of the United Kingdom, for example,
Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds."

Continuing, Sethi says "According to London Police, the man killed by them was
carrying a weapon. Keeping weapons is strictly forbidden in the United Kingdom.
The exchange of fire between the police and the murdered man is in itself an
//extraordinary// incident by the standards of the British society. Youngsters
who are involved in riots are not related to a specific group in terms of
religion, race, color, or nationality; instead, what is common in them is that
they belong to //lower middle class//. The United Kingdom, Europe, and the
United States are again embroiled in economic crisis. People are getting
frustrated and angry with their governments due to their economic difficulties."
Sethi says: "Let us baptize these riots as //consumer riots//." Sethi adds that
according to Amazon.co.uk, an online retail outlet, more than 5,000 cricket bats
have been bought during the last 48 hours to break windows of shops in London
and other cities of the United Kingdom and loot shop items. Sethi reveals that
the main target of these raging youngsters is the shops that sell clothes and
electronic items.

Farooq plays a video report on riots in the United Kingdom. The report says that
according to the UK police, the riots and violence in London and Manchester are
extraordinary. The report quotes police sources as saying that they are trying
to make every possible effort to control riots. The report further says that it
has become a challenge for police to control riots in Manchester, Liverpool,
Nottingham, and Birmingham. Many shopkeepers are in shock to see their shops
destroyed and property looted. The report adds that police has arrested more
than 750 people so far. British people are asking the Army to control the
situation.

Farooq asks Sethi whether he sees any ethnic factor in these riots. Sethi says:
"At the moment he does not see any ethnic factor. These riots were triggered by
the death of a person, but the protest against the murder soon changed into
consumer riots. Sikh and Muslim communities cooperate with each other in the
United Kingdom and they have constituted groups to resist thieves and burglars.
They stand together to protect their worship places as well as their shops and
businesses. Both Muslim and Sikh minorities are against plunder and violence and
they are not backing the rioters in the current phase of unrest; so perhaps this
is one reason why Pakistanis got killed during these riots.Both the communites
are reluctant to take part in stealing of shop items, which is why raging
youngsters are getting annoyed with Pakistanis.

Segment II

Farooq says that the United States is also hit by economic crisis and it has
lost its //credit rating//. Sethi says: "The United States is also facing
economic crisis and thousands of US citizens are jobless. Outbreak of consumer
riots in the United States cannot be ruled out. Unemployment and poverty are at
worse in areas where blacks are in majority. //Lower middle class// of the
United States is mainly comprised of black people. The US police will be very
aggressive to control possible riots. White Americans can also take part in
violence and riots as they are frustrated due to negative impact of capitalism.
Violence in the United States in the wake of economic crisis will create a
dangerous situation; however, the state police are strong and respond instantly
and ruthlessly."

Farooq asks Sethi why the United States has lost its credit rating. Sethi says
that the United States used to enjoy //AAA// credit rating since 1920s until
recently, due to its economic strength. Sethi says: "The United States' credit
rating has gone from //AAA// to //AA// for the first time. The United States'
Gross Domestic Product [GDP] is $14 trillion and debt is $13 trillion; so debt
to GDP ratio is almost 95 percent. The Republican Party, which holds majority in
the Congress, is trying to somehow thwart President Obama's plan to get elected
as president for the second term. Rightwing white Americans are reluctant to be
led by a black president for four more years. The Republicans are resisting
President Obama's plan to increase tax on rich people and cut the //defense
expenditure//. The expenditure on Afghan War has played a key role in
deterioration of the US economy."

Segment III

Farooq says that according to reports the United States is pressurizing Pakistan
to become a signatory to the Conference of Disarmament Treaty and stop producing
nuclear weapons in abundance. Sethi says: "The United States wants //stockpile//
of nuclear products to be reduced on international level and seeks contribution
of countries capable of producing nuclear weapons. President Obama wants to
impose ban on production of nuclear weapons around the globe. The United States
also wants Pakistan to stop //uranium and plutonium enrichment//. Pakistan has
reservations on India's stockpile. The United States is trying to use the
Security Council to pressurize Pakistan in this regard. China is likely to
support Pakistan on this issue.

Farooq concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1800gmt 10 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              TOWNSVILLE BULLETIN

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Australia's Day of Shame Negative publicity from race violence spreads worldwide

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 446  words


SYDNEY'S race riots received wide media coverage across Asia and beyond.

The news of the violence threatens to cast a shadow over Prime Minister John
Howard's visit to mainly Muslim Malaysia this week for a landmark meeting of
regional leaders.

In Kuala Lumpur, the New Straits Times newspaper carried a front-page photo of
police armed with batons battling rioters in Cronulla with the headline 'Race
Riot Down Under'.

The rival Malaysia Star carried the story under the banner 'Racial Tensions
Spark Sydney Beach Violence'.

The Philippines media also reported the violence.

'Racial riot breaks out on Aussie Beach', The Manila Times said.

The Hong Kong The Standard newspaper said 'Race riot flares in Sydney'.

In Indonesia, the Indo Pos newspaper carried a front-page headline 'Race riots
shake Australia'.

Several other Indonesian newspapers carried pictures of the riots.

The Middle East-based al-Jazeera TV network showed footage of the mayhem and ran
a story on its website headlined: 'Race riots spread in Sydney' with a picture
captioned 'Drunken thugs on the rampage'.

The story even featured in papers as far afield as London, where The Times
described a 'Battle on Beach as mob vow to defend Aussie way of Life'.

''Furious locals, many wielding empty beer bottles and waving Australian flags,
shouted anti-Middle Eastern slogans as they marched across the sand, on which
was written 100 per cent Aussie pride,'' the Times said. ''One white teenager
had the words 'We grew up here, you flew here' painted across his back.''

The Guardian said ''racial unrest turned a popular beachside suburb into a
battleground.

''Draped in Australian flags and singing Waltzing Matilda, the alcohol-fuelled
crowd attacked people of Middle Eastern appearance whom they blamed for an
assault on their lifestyle,'' the Guardian said.

''Racial tensions erupted into running battles between police and thousands of
white youths, many chanting racial slurs against ethnic Middle Easterners, at a
beachside suburb in southern Sydney, Australia,'' British Press Association
reported.

''Police and ambulance officers were pelted with beer cans and bottles, and an
ambulance was attacked,'' the BBC said on its website.

Mr Howard arrives in Kuala Lumpur today to attend a 16-nation summit aimed at
opening talks on a regional trade block and East Asia community stretching from
China to India, Japan and New Zealand.

But the summit nations are split between countries who support an inclusive
model involving Australia and New Zealand, including Indonesia and Singapore,
and nations led by China and host Malaysia who would prefer an Asian core with
Canberra and Wellington relegated to the sidelines in future.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Are UP communal riots result of vote bank politics?;
Intelligence agencies have indicated that there is a predetermined political
design behind the recent communal riots in Muzaffarnagar. They have also warned
that such communal riots can also take place in Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhya
Pradesh, Karnataka and...

BYLINE: Rajesh Rao & Sanchari Ghosh

LENGTH: 950  words


It's a trend to take an emotional issue and flare it up for political gains

Communal riots or any riots, do not erupt on its own, it is instigated by people
themselves. Especially, with communal riots there is always a prior planning. As
communal riots have taken an ugly turn in the last few days, with people losing
their lives, there is no doubt that it has been instigated as a predetermined
political design looking at the upcoming 2014 general elections. It has always
been a trend to take an emotional issue and flare it up for political gains. For
example, in Sangli, Maharashtra, a temporary riot was instigated during last
Vidhan Sabha elections. Whether riots are there or not, the government's job is
to stop it from spreading further, but (Uttar Pradesh) UP government is unable
to do so. There is a political design behind every riot, that is why there is no
political will to pass the pending Prevention of Communal Riots Bill. The
communal riots in Muzaffarnagar did not take place overnight. There is always a
clue in the air before such tension starts, so why doesn't the government take
any prior measure to prevent them.

Anwar Rajan, senior member, Yuvak Kranti Dal

Riots become uglier, when leaders start making an issue out of it

It is very painful to see that humans are killing humans during riots. On
humanitarian grounds at least, we should not get down to such inhuman behaviour,
where we kill our own clan.

Communal riots become uglier, when politicians start making an issue out of it
for political gains. If the administration had been active, the recent riots in
UP would have never gone out of control. There is some leniency factor in the
recent communal riots. The government should have taken strict action against
the culprits, whether they are from Muslim or Hindu community. CM Akhilesh Yadav
should send a stern message to the conspirators of riots.

Azhar Ali Warsi, member, state advisory council, Jamaat-e-Islami

Political parties blame each other without finding a solution

What is happening in UP is clearly failure of the system. The bureaucracy is
demoralised and nobody wants to take a decision or action. They have only
transferred two officers, which is not going to rectify the problem. What we
need is to promote peace committees and use media to keep people away from
untoward instigations. There is no doubt that the spread of communal riots is
the result of vote bank politics. The political parties are blaming each other,
with no short-term or long-term solutions to curb the riots. UP government has
said that it has rounded up over 1000 people for rioting. However, just rounding
up people randomly is not going to resolve the issue. If the intelligence
agencies have given inputs that such riots can also happen in Rajasthan, Bihar,
Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and even Haryana, then the inputs need to be taken
seriously.

Madhav Godbole, former union home secretary

UP politicians are now relying on politics of religion

The last political event in UP was the suspension of IAS officer Durga Shakti
Nagpal, who was targeted by the state government allegedly because action taken
by her caused religious tension. The party in power attempted to correct her but
the political intention was clear in its action. UP politicians are relying on
politics of religion ahead of coming election. Today it is not difficult for the
administration to control riots, if they intend to. Calling the army to control
riots, shows that State is either incompetent to control rioters, or it is
deliberately turning a blind eye, keeping in mind the upcoming election. CM
declared to distribute laptops to youth before the election, the politics of
religion for vote is diametrically opposite to the promise he has made.

Vanisree Ramanathan, faculty, Political Science

Communal riots are taking place in a systematic manner

The recent spate of riots in UP and polarisation occurring on religious grounds
has gathered great attention ahead of Lok Sabha polls. While Samajwadi Party led
state government and other political parties INC, BJP, BSP blame each other for
the bloody conflict and the loss of lives, the larger point which is being
missed is that the communal riots have been occurring in certain parts of India
in a systematic manner since independence.

It has flourished as an institution and gets activated, as noted by the eminent
scholar Paul Brass, during periods of political mobilisation or during the time
of elections. Hence riots are far from being spontaneous and they are produced
in a theatrical style in terms of involvement of volunteers and adoption of
certain strategies.

Ever since the ascendency of Ajit Singh, his party, the Lok Dal has had a
tumultuous journey with frequent shuffling of political partners and seeking
alliances that would keep it buoyant in the murky politics of caste/clan and
religion.

While the Lok Dal's political formulation has largely shrunk in the present
scenario, it is yet to be seen if it is able to maintain its foothold, this time
when the Jats and Muslims have emerged as the main participants in the ongoing
conflict.

Containing communal conflagration depends on the political will of state
governments, so that their respective regions don't get inflamed. But the larger
question remains that the complicity of the state or political parties in
communal conflicts strips them of their neutrality and legitimacy, resulting in
various groups settling their disputes by extra-constitutional means.

Hence the development of a sustained culture of negotiation, tolerance and
accommodation is the need of the hour to address communalisation and
militarisation of society.

Radhakrishnan, political analyst

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Manpower and capability boost for riot police;
Move is a change from previous shifts in focus away from riot control

BYLINE: Hoe Pei Shan

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 631 words


SINGAPORE'S riot police will double in strength, with 300 more officers to be
added in the next two to three years.

These members of the Police Tactical Troops within the Special Operations
Command (SOC) will also be better armed to deal with a wider range of situations
and crowd size.

Other changes include increasing the size of each troop and the number of troops
for round-the-clock standby duty, said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean.

DPM Teo, who is also the Home Affairs Minister, set out these new measures in
Parliament yesterday in a ministerial statement, responding to the report of the
Committee of Inquiry (COI) on the Dec 8 riot in Little India.

One key measure is the 300 more officers for front-line riot duty. This will
allow the police to increase the number of troops on standby duty round the
clock from eight to 12.

The additional troops "will be configured for rapid deployment on lighter and
more mobile platforms", said DPM Teo.

Within each troop, there will be more officers as well: 44 instead of 35. They
will also get "additional equipment to improve their sense-making and
operational capabilities".

The boost will help them be more effective in dealing "with a wider range of
situations and crowd size". "Given the riot, police must re-assess the
likelihood of having to deal with large-scale public order incidents and
strengthen the ability of its forces to do so," he added.

The beefing up of the riot police is a change from past moves, in which the
police shifted its focus and resources from riot control to such priorities as
crime prevention and community policing.

That followed a sharp drop in the number of public disorders from the mid-1970s,
said DPM Teo. By 1983, the number of riot control troops was cut from 12 to
eight, with 46 officers, down from 63, in each troop.

Established in 1992, the SOC became a dual-response force in 2001, focusing on
anti-terrorism and public order incidents.

In 2004, each troop was reduced again to 35 officers but balanced with more
intensive training, and armed with advanced equipment and technology.

During the COI hearings, Commissioner of Police Ng Joo Hee, however, said the
force needed another 1,000 officers to improve police presence in areas where
large numbers of people congregate, such as Geylang and Little India.

He also said police numbers have not kept pace with population growth. Two MPs
raised his request. One was opposition MP Sylvia Lim, who asked if there was a
"serious under-resource problem", while Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC's Hri Kumar Nair
asked how DPM Teo intends to recruit given the tight labour market.

Replying, DPM Teo said the manpower issue is not one which is faced only by the
police or by his ministry. "Anyone who has run an organisation in Singapore
knows that we face a manpower situation which we all have to deal with," he
said. "In the coming five years, we will have fewer young Singaporeans entering
the workforce than in the past five years. So the issue is not going to get
simpler."

However, DPM Teo said more than 1,000 positions were created between 2008 and
this year, to support new initiatives such as front-line Community Policing and
Safer Roads. Of these, more than 97 per cent had been filled.

Overall, the police headcount has risen about 15 per cent in the past 10 years,
from about 9,000 to around 10,300 officers.

In addition, employment terms are better and upgrading opportunities improved.

The retirement age for uniformed officers has gone from 50 to 55 and more
retired officers are re-employed.

Other measures taken include the greater use of technology to combat crime.

"This combination of better operational deployments and technology has
contributed significantly to keeping crime low and solving cases," he said.

hpeishan@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday

Riot participant to change plea

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Feb. 26--NATCHEZ -- A man indicted in the May 2012 prison riot in Adams County
that killed a guard and injured dozens of prison personnel and prisoners will be
in court today and is expected to withdraw his earlier pea of "not guilty."

Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano pleaded not guilty to the charges of mutiny and
riot in October, but in January filed a notice of intent to change plea. His
change of plea hearing is set for 11 a.m. today in U.S. district court in
Natchez.

Court filings against Serrano Bejarano allege he helped rioters gain access to
the roof of one of Adams County Correctional Center's buildings by stacking food
carts. The guard who was killed in the seven-hour riot -- Catlin Carithers, 24
-- was on the roof of one of the buildings, where he was working to contain the
prisoner uprising when he received the blunt force injuries that ultimately
claimed his life.

The testimony of another prisoner who admitted to being a participant in the
riot said he saw Serrano-Bejarano assaulting a correctional officer who was
taken hostage during the riot, according to previous filings with the court.

The riot started when an informal group of Mexican nationals -- known as Paisas,
which means "countrymen" -- started a mass disobedience to express displeasure
with how they perceived the prison to be operated. The inmates reportedly became
violent after prison officials tried to contain the disobedience.

Another inmate, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, was sentenced to 40 months and $1.3 million
in restitution for his participation in the riot.

Adams County Correctional Center is a federal immigration prison and is operated
by Corrections Corporation of America and is located just east of Natchez.

___ (c)2013 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130226-YY-Riot-participant-to-change-plea-0226-20130226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2013 The Natchez Democrat


                              164 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               November 13, 2014

Riot Police Deployed At Bhasikiti's Offices

LENGTH: 496 words


Over 30 riot police officers have been deployed to guard Masvingo Provincial
Affairs Minister Cde Kudakwashe Bhasikiti's offices at Benjamin Burombo
Government Complex, amid fears of impending demonstrations against him by war
veterans.

The police officers in full riot gear are now manning the entire Benjamin
Burombo complex, where Minister Bhasikiti's offices are housed, on a daily basis
from 8am to 4pm. Sources said the riot police were deployed to protect Minister
Bhasikiti in the event the war veterans try to stage a violent demonstration
against him.

Minister Bhasikiti yesterday said he did not know why the riot police were
deployed.

"I was also surprised to see the riot police here at Benjamin Burombo, but I
believe they are on high alert because of political developments that are
currently taking place," he said. "There is a lot of political activism that is
occurring these days and that might be the reason why the riot police is here."

Masvingo acting provincial police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Kudakwashe
Dhewa said he was not sure why the riot police were deployed.

"I will have to find out why they are there, but I think they will be just on a
routine patrol, remember there are quite a number of informal traders who
operate close to the complex, so those police officers in question might be on
patrol," he said.

Masvingo war veterans' provincial vice chairman Cde Charles Muchena confirmed
that war veterans in the province planned to demonstrate against Minister
Bhasikiti.

Cde Muchena said they had already applied for police permission to stage the
protests, adding that they will go ahead with the demonstrations even if they
failed to get clearance.

He said war veterans were not happy with the treatment given to illegal settlers
in Masvingo East after their homes were torched by police for invading
black-owned farms.

"We are not happy with the treatment given to families who were staying in some
farms in Masvingo East after their homes and property such as seed was torched
by police as they evicted them," said Cde Muchena. "We feel Minister Bhasikiti
as the head of Government in Masvingo is in charge of all security organisations
such as the police and we suspect the burning of those houses had his
blessings."

Cde Muchena said most of the 300 families who were evicted after the torching of
their homes were now paupers after they lost most of their personal possessions.

Government evicted the illegal settlers from more than 10 farms in Masvingo East
after an audit revealed that the farms in question were owned by black people.

Only settlers who occupied the farms before 2004 were given a lifeline after the
Masvingo provincial leadership led by Minister Bhasikiti resolved to resettle
them at Magudu Ranch in Chiredzi.

A few years ago, war veterans in Masvingo staged a sit in at the then provincial
governor Cde Titus Maluleke's offices at Benjamin Burombo Building and vowed to
stay put until their grievances were attended to.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Communal violence higher in Jammu

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, Aug. 6 -- While Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed fewer riots than the
average national level, but around four to five cases of riots get reported on
average daily in the state.

A total of 72,126 cases of riots were reported in India in 2013, with Bihar
reporting the maximum 11,931 cases. Kerala was second, reporting 10,042 riot
cases followed by Maharashtra 9,610, Karnataka 7,237 and West Bengal 6,142.

According to the official details of the police department available with The
Kashmir Monitor, 1714 cases of riots were reported in 2013 in Jammu and Kashmir.
During 2014, 1524 such cases were reported in the state.

A riot is a form of civil disorder commonly characterized by a group lashing out
in a violent public disturbance against authority, property or people. Riots
involve vandalism and the destruction of property, public or private.

Police sources said unlike states like Bihar, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh, less
number of communal riot cases have been reported from the Muslims dominated
Jammu and Kashmir.

"In Valley, most of the rioting cases that have been reported are vandalization
of shops, cars, offices, during anti-India protests," a senior police official
told The Kashmir Monitor.

He said some of the separatists are also facing charges of rioting. "These
leaders have been found involved in destructing public and private property
during protests in the Valley," the police official said.

However, he said barring few sectarian clashes, the Valley didn't witness any
sectarian or communal riots over the years. One such was the Budgam incident,
where the sectarian clashes broke out following dispute between two sects over
construction of a village road. Then there were incidents of arson during
clashes prompting authorities to impose restrictions.

"But maximum cases of communal riots have been reported from the Hindu dominated
Jammu region," the official said.

During 2013 and 2014, one major incident of communal riots was reported in
Kishtwar district of the Jammu region.

The communal riots sparked in Kishtwar on Eid Day after two communities started
targeting to each other. The pro-Hindu groups had alleged that the then MoS Home
Sajad Ahmad Kitchloo was behind these riots. However, the Muslim groups claimed
that some pro-Hindu groups had targeted shops and houses of Muslims in the
district during these clashes.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                                August 17, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Twitter rumours of Brentwood 'riots'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 308 words


RUMOURS of the London riots spreading to Brentwood were circulated on Twitter on
Tuesday last week. Zoe Douglas reports. ¦ WileyArtist Wiley Listen if you live
in brentwood and you aint seeing nothing go wrong on your streets be quiet its
not gona come there....... ¦ Bradw93 Bradley White Omfg it's going off in
Brentwood!!! Lol joke just got waved at by CSO's who said they were bored #riots
¦ joelevell Joe Levell Rumours of riots spreading to Shenfield...for what? Lot
75 and Shenfield bakery? Daft. Stop it now. Protests are fine but this is
mindless.

¦ lukecullinane1 luke cullinane Please no riots in brentwood we have enough
snits as it is thanks ¦ kaz_yellow Karun Chhokar Were all commenting about the
riots whilst innocent people are being affected, people in Brentwood don't
realise how good they've got it ¦ TimHembrough: If anyone starts trashin up
brentwood, i will personally go out in my cricket helmet and bat... ¦
CharlieeeGreen Charlie Green Somone riot in brentwood so i can get a new TV and
some kfc ¦ jordanodonoghue Jordan O'donoghue "If the riot moves to Brentwood we
won't have weapons we'll have hairspray cans and acrylic nails at the ready"
loooooooolllllllll ¦ ryanreevess Ryan Reeves well if the rioting occurs in
shenfield...i have no doubt i will be taking a visit to William Hill to take a
roulette machine #roy ¦ Ches_James Wreckineyezchesjames Why would they riot in
shenfield highstreet what they gna do rob the card shop :s ¦ heydzas dzastina.
There's riots in brentwood now?! Swear its meant to be a tottenham thing..
#awkward ¦ ChazMackaz Charlotte Mackenzie i think there's a fire at subway in
brentwood, i'm not even joking, not from riots though, purely a kitchen fire ¦
SamanthaLouiseB Samantha Bruty Riots in Romford, i'm glad all of my cats are in
the house. it's heading to harold hill now. then brentwood

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOOTING: Rioters attack an electrical shop in Croydon
Photo by Sam Collyer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BRG


                        Copyright 2011 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 26, 2015 Monday

Azam cause of all riots in UP, rioters will go jail if BJP comes to power:
Sangeet Som

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 310 words


MEERUT: BJP MLA and Muzaffarnagar riots accused Sangeet Som on Sunday addressed
an election meeting in Mahalka village of Meerut district. The Sardhana MLA
alleged senior SP leader and state cabinet minister Azam Khan was the "cause of
all riots" in Uttar Pradesh. He also promised that "all riot-mongers would go to
jail" if his party came to power in the state in 2017.

Som, who was campaigning for a BJP-backed candidate in the district panchayat
polls, toldTOI, "Ever since the Samajwadi Party government has assumed charge of
the state, there have been over 400 communal riots in the state. Look at what
happened in Kannauj. Will they blame these clashes on me and my party as well?
Even the local MP (Dimple Yadav) is from their party. What is the reason behind
all these riots? The reason is Azam Khan."

READ ALSO:

Taking on the state government, Som said BJP would ensure "riot-mongers" go to
jail if they come to power in the state in 2017. "The state government has
consistently been shielding politicians that fan riots and spread hatred across
the state. Instances of riots have become a weekly affair in UP now. Why is the
state government not admitting that it has failed to do its duty of maintaining
law and order in the state? If the BJP comes to power in the state after the
assembly elections of 2017, we will ensure that such people pay for what they
have done. We will send them to jail and maintain law and order," he promised.

READ ALSO:

This is the second time that Sangeet Som has made this promise. The
controversial MLA had addressed a similar meeting in Bulandshahr's Kareena
village on Saturday, where he had promised "action against those inciting riots
." Earlier this month, Som had told the press that his party would impose
section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code in cases of cow slaughter.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

CCA riot inmate indicted

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


Oct. 12--NATCHEZ -- One of the inmates identified as an alleged instigator of
the May 20 prison riot at the Adams County Correctional Center has been indicted
by a federal grand jury.

The indictment, filed Oct. 3 in the U.S. District Court for Southern
Mississippi's Western Division, charges that Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano "aided
and abetted by others known and unknown to the grand jury, willfully instigated,
connived, attempted to cause, assisted and conspired to cause a mutiny and riot
at the Adams County Correctional Center."

The official charges follow an affidavit filed in September by an FBI agent that
stated Serrano-Bejarano was one of a number of inmates who stacked food carts in
order to reach correctional officers on the roof of one of the prison's
buildings during the riot.

A correctional officer, Catlin Carithers, was assaulted on the roof of one of
the prison buildings and later died from the wounds he received during the riot.

The affidavit also stated that Serrano-Bejarano was seen in possession of a
prison staff radio during the riot, assaulted a hostage and contributed to the
destruction of parts of the facility.

Previous court filings and public comment from prison officials have stated that
the riot started because a group of Mexican nationals known as Paisas -- which
means "countrymen" -- began a mass disobedience to express displeasure with
prison officials.

The disobedience erupted into a riot when correctional officers tried to control
it, and lasted from approximately 2:30 to 9:30 p.m.

Serrano-Bejarano was released from custody Aug. 28 for his previous crimes, but
has been in federal custody since Sept. 5.

Another inmate, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, pleaded guilty to charges related to the
riot against him Aug. 27, and is set to be sentenced Nov. 19.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121012-YY-CCA-riot-inmate-indicted-1012-20121012

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat


                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Understanding the England riots from the perspective of those responsible

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 830 words

ABSTRACT

Our researchers are talking to people who took part in riots for a joint study
by the Guardian and London School of Economics

FULL TEXT

A month ago, we launched a major research study to find out more about the
causes and the consequences of the riots that spread across England in August
this year.

Now more than 30 researchers are working full-time interviewing people involved
in the disturbances in London, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool and Nottingham.

They are all part of Reading the Riots, a project that aims to achieve a better
understanding of the riots - and why they happened - by gaining the perspectives
of those who were directly involved.

The study, carried out jointly by the Guardian and London School of Economics,
is modelled on a landmark study conducted in the aftermath of the Detroit riots
in 1967, the most deadly riots ever experienced in the United States.

The England Riots, as they have become known, constituted the most serious bout
of civil unrest in a generation. Five people died and more than 3,000 were
arrested when a disturbance that began in Tottenham on 6 August spread across
the capital and to towns and cities across the country during four nights of
arson and looting.

We launched this study because there was a deficit in empirical research into
the riots, despite their disturbing scale and nature. Most notably, the
government has resisted opening a full public inquiry, choosing instead to
create a four-person panel to listen to victims of the riots.

The perspectives of victims and local communities are of course crucial, but we
feel that the best understanding of the disorder will be obtained from the
people who were responsible for it.

Reading the Riots, which is funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Open
Society Foundations, seeks to find answers through rigorous social research.

In the weeks after the project's launch, more than 450 people from across
England applied to be researchers on the project. The team we have now selected
are skilled interviewers who can draw on good contacts in riot-affected
communities.

They come from a range of backgrounds, and include PhD students, youth workers,
journalists, mentors, lecturers, bloggers, a taxi driver, a probation officer
and a consultant. You can read more about the team here.

Their attempts to find people who were involved in the riots, and interview them
in confidence, are being aided by an informal network of youth groups, community
workers, teachers and lawyers who are putting us in touch with people they know
participated in the disorder.

We want to give everyone who was involved the opportunity to speak to us -
regardless of their background or circumstances. If you know people who were
involved in the riots, we would be grateful if you could put us in touch with
them.

Anonymity is something we're taking extremely seriously. There will be no record
of the names, addresses or photographs of the people who take part in the study.
We are simply interested in what they have to say. The study has been approved
by the LSE's ethics committee.

We are also speaking to the many people who have appeared in court in connection
with the riots, drawing on our own database of riot-related court cases. We have
written to more than 1,000 people prosecuted over the riots, and our researchers
are also visiting their homes.

Potentially, we would like to interview people in prison, and we are in
discussions with the Ministry of Justice to enable people who are on remand or
serving sentences to also have the opportunity to speak to us in confidence.

Our interviews are semi-structured, and last around an hour. Mostly, they
comprise general discussions about people's experiences - known in social
research as "qualitative" interviews. But there are also more structured
survey-style questions, about the backgrounds and attitudes of people involved
in the riots.

If you were somehow involved in the riots, and would like to be interviewed, you
can contact us in confidence by sending an email to
readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk.

We hope these interviews will provide us with a deeper understanding of the
nature of the August riots from the perspective of people who were there.

The large amount of material we will begin analysing in the coming weeks should
bring clarity to a number of assumptions about the riots, from the relevance of
poverty to the involvement of gangs and the use of Blackberry BBM messaging and
other social media.

Prof Tim Newburn, who is leading the LSE's involvement in the project, is hiring
a team of academics who will analyse the material generated from the interviews.

Simultaneously, we are analysing a database of more than 2.5m tweets, provided
to us by Twitter. We will be teaming up with academics at Manchester University
who have expertise in analysing large amounts of Twitter data.

We hope that by December we will have a better grasp of exactly how rioting and
looting spread across English cities this summer - and why.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                           November 1, 2006 Wednesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Transfer of riot squad control divides police

BYLINE: Steve Barrett

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357  words


THE newly formed NSW riot squad has been placed under the control of the unit
blamed for mishandling the Cronulla riot.

The transfer from the NSW Police Counter Terrorist Co-ordination Command -- the
force's peak body charged with combating terrorist threats -- was the last act
by Carl Scully before he was sacked as police minister by Premier Morris Iemma
last week.

It has caused deep divisions between CTCC officers and the rest of the NSW
force.

New Police Minister John Watkins and Commissioner Ken Moroney endorsed Mr
Scully's final decision to hand control of the Public Order and Riot Squad to
the office of Deputy Commissioner, Operations, Andrew Scipione.

The report into the Cronulla riots by former assistant commissioner Norm Hazzard
was highly critical of the operational commanders who came under the overall
control of Mr Scipione on the day of the riot. And concerns have been raised
about the role of the riot squad in relation to next year's APEC meeting in
Sydney and who will have final say over its use.

The Australian understands the state's other Deputy Commissioner, Terry Collins,
who has responsibility for special operations, argued strongly with Mr Scully,
Mr Moroney and Mr Scipione about any transfer of the riot squad from his
command. But Mr Scully, known to be close to Mr Scipione, had made the decision
to move the squad away from the specialist command and was due to announce it on
October 1.

This was put on hold because of the storm over the impending release of the
Hazzard report, which Mr Scully initially denied existed.

Mr Scipione, along with Assistant Commissioner Mark Goodwin, the officer in
charge of the police operation on the day of the Cronulla riot last December,
convinced Mr Scully to argue that it was wrong to release the report because
officers named had not been offered a response by Mr Hazzard.

This has since been rejected by Mr Hazzard, now a civilian, and all of his 33
recommendations have been accepted by the commissioner.

Mr Goodwin -- who has since gone on sick leave -- also believed the PORS should
be placed under the command of Mr Scipione, responsible for daily field
operations.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

A Riot Broke Out and No One Was Surprised

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: Goa


Goa, March 2 -- A riot broke out on February 20 at Willacy Correctional
Facility, a Texas prison for "illegal immigrants". Two thousand inmates
demonstrated against their subjection to neglect and overwork. The situation
quickly escalated as inmates armed themselves with blunt instruments, swarming
the yard and dismantling and setting fire to the structures they'd been shackled
to for too long. As the situation grew from prison riot to an inmate takeover of
the facilities, guards sought to quell its progress with tear gas, but the wind
favoured the rioters.

Prison riots are frequent phenomena. Fortunately, this particular riot resulted
in no deaths. The costs were ultimately imposed only on the facility's owners.
In fact, this uprising literally shut down the prison. As of February 24, 921
inmates had been transferred to other facilities pursuant to completely vacating
the prison.

Many liberal reformists object to rioting as a legitimate tactic of effecting
positive change. They cite, as all anti-revolutionaries do, crackdowns on prison
life and the possible negative response of outsiders. However, prison riots have
historically proven a very useful tool in achieving the demands of malcontent
prisoners or at least giving voice to the voiceless.

In Manchester, England, the Strangeway Prison saw an extended riot and
occupation by inmates which began at a meeting in the facility's chapel. Guards
turned out in force, anticipating prisoner action that day. The chapel services
degenerated into inmates letting their captors know precisely what they thought
of them. Tensions built and the inmates eventually subdued the guards and took
their keys. The actions of the inmates convinced other guards to high-tail it
out, securing the prisoners' first victory and beginning a 25-day stand off.

Riots broke out at other institutions in solidarity with the Strangeway inmates.
By the end, £55 million in damage was done and public sympathy for the inmates'
horrendous conditions improved, resulting in national reforms.

In the case of the prisoners at Willacy, they are people who simply don't have
the right government papers, forced to live in makeshift tent cities. Claims
that the prisoners caused the riot are backward. The prison officials caused the
riot. The state caused the riot. The guards caused the riot. The riot was the
inevitable result of locking away and neglecting people who wanted nothing more
than to improve their material conditions. It would be a bleak, passionless
world where prisons were not burnt to the ground by the people trapped within
them.

(Center for a Stateless Society (c4ss.org) Contributing writer Ryan Calhoun is a
Philosophy student and activist at the University at Buffalo.)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riot Act in line for shake-up

BYLINE: THOMAS MARTIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 297 words


THE Government is to reform the Riot Damages Act in the wake of violence that
hit Liverpool and other cities in 2011.

The Home Office wants to update the Riot Damages Act (RDA) - which was written
in 1886 - to make it fit for the 21st century.

Read The proposals would improve and modernise the way that compensation is paid
to people and businesses who suffer loss or damage to their property caused by
riots.

Web blurb Thank It follows an independent review of the RDA by Neil Kinghan, who
was commissioned by the Government to assess whether the Act was fit for purpose
after major cities were affected by serious public disorder in the summer of
2011.

Merseyside Police Authority made a special grant application to the Government
to meet the bills for the street riots - estimated at £2.8m.

The claim was based on two separate costs - operational (police overtime pay,
etc) and those arising under the Riot Damages Act.

But the Government has acknowledged that the 1886 act needs updating in the
event of future riots.

The proposals unveiled by the Policing Minister Damian Green include: ? allowing
higher value settlements by providing "new for old" replacements for destroyed
or damaged goods; ? increasing the time limit in which people more can make
claims applications; ? ails you ? allowing people to submit claims
electronically, thereby speeding up and simplifying the process; ? including
compensation for damage to vehicles, which were previously not covered by the
Act.

The Home Office also proposes implementing a cap limiting the amount insurance
companies can reclaim from the Government. The changes will now be subject to a
consultation exercise so the public, police and business community can
contribute to how the Act is reformed.

Read more Web blurb details Thank you

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK: The city riots in 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Iranian Government News

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Germany issues travel alert for riot-plagued Great Britain

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 163 words


The official news agency of Iran (IRNA) has issued following news:

Germany's foreign ministry on Tuesday issued a travel warning for Great Britain
amid the ongoing riots in London and several other English cities.

Germany issues travel alert for riot-plagued Great Britain

The offical website of the German foreign ministry urged travellers to exercise
'special caution' when visiting England.

It called on Germans to stay away from riot-plagued areas and listen to the

instructions of British security forces.

The riots and looting began Saturday in Tottenham in north London following
death of Mark Duggan during a police sting operation.

They spread on Monday to other English cities, including Liverpool, Birmingham
and Bristol.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister David Cameron cut short his summer holiday in Italy
amid the escalating crisis and was chairing a meeting of the government's
security emergency committee Tuesday.

For more information please contact: info@plusmediasolutions.com[#x3002]

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: 752


              Copyright 2011 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                         Syndigate.info, Al bawaba.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MY STAG DO WAS A RIOT...;
Anarchy event blasted EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NEIL MILLARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 160 words


A FIRM has caused fury by selling stag do revellers the chance to take part in a
RIOT.

Pals wear armour and wield batons and shields while fighting off staff hurling
PETROL BOMBS.

Wish.co.uk boasts: "Noise, fire, smoke and fear are the main ingredients. All
hell breaks loose. You'll come under a barrage of debris."

The firm insists that its stag event is a lesson covering famous cops and riots.

But outraged residents in Droitwich, Worcs, where the £79-a-head day is offered,
have complained - and urged MP Peter Luff to ban it.

Wish founder Richard Kershaw said: "We teach the basics of riot management and
offer an insight into the situations that police deal with." An online
disclaimer states: "We are not encouraging anyone to riot. Inciting a riot is a
criminal offence and people go to jail for jokes on Twitter/Facebook."

Droitwich is home to yob Johnny Melfah, 16, who used Facebook to try to incite a
riot during last year's unrest.

n.millard@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot idiots ... pic from site

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

Another riot claims 2 Cereso inmates

BYLINE: Daniel Borunda / El Paso Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


Two inmates were fatally shot and 17 others were injured when a riot erupted
Thursday night at the troubled Cereso prison.

Juárez police spokesman Jaime Torres said the riot began during a foiled escape
attempt by inmates trying to flee over the wall in the women's section of the
prison, which houses about 3,400 inmates, including 30 to 40 U.S. citizens.

The identities of the dead and injured were not immediately available.

The escape turned into a riot involving about 100 inmates, Torres said. The
prison was under control before 9 p.m. after about 500 local, state and federal
police officers were dispatched.

The riot was the latest in a string of bloody uprisings linked to an ongoing war
between the Aztecas and Mexicles gangs.

One inmate was slain in December and two were killed in November in brawls and
riots, in which inmates used make shift weapons, including homemade shotguns,
shanks, spears and wooden shields.

The previous riots left dozens injured. On one occasion, an inmate was
reportedly seen with an assault rifle that was taken from guards during a
previous riot.

The Aztecas and Mexicles have been battling for years in an attempt to gain
control of the drug trade in the prison. It was built about 30 years ago for
about 1,800 prisoners.

Aztecas have been reported to be the larger group but are facing rapid growth by
their rivals.

The Mexicles are believed to be recruiting heavily throughout Chihuahua state,
according to a presentation a member of CIPOL, a branch of the Chihuahua state
preventive police, made in November during a cross-border seminar on gangs.

The Mexicles had 60 identified members in 2004 but are expected to expand to
8,000 members this year, according to a Juárez police news release on the
seminar.

The Mexicles have cells in Juárez, Chihuahua City, Ojinaga and in 40 of the 60
cities in Chihuahua. Mexicles are identified with the "Hecho en Mexico" (Made in
Mexico) tattoo and the letters "PRM," for "Pura Raza Mexicana," roughly
translated.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at dborunda@elpasotimes.com; 546-6102.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2008 El Paso Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             March 11, 2011 Friday

QUIET RIOT REUNITES, GETS NEW SINGER

BYLINE: BY DON THRASHER CONTRIBUTING WRITER

SECTION: GO!; Pg. GO8

LENGTH: 339 words


The hard rock band Quiet Riot ended with the death of singer Kevin DuBrow on
Nov. 25, 2007 - or so fans thought. That notion changed in late 2010 when
longtime drummer Frankie Banali decided to revive Quiet Riot with former members
Chuck Wright (bass) and Alex Grossi (guitar) and new vocalist Mark Huff.

Banali took time last week to answer questions about the reconstituted band,
which performs at McGuffy's House of Rock on Saturday, March 12.

Q When did you decide the time was right to reform Quiet Riot?

A "About six months ago, I was approached about the possibility of doing a
documentary on the history of Quiet Riot, and that forced me to go into the
archives. A lot of people don't know that I've managed Quiet Riot for the last
17 years, so because of that I have all the archives. Once I started going
through it and looking at it, that really was the beginning of the healing
process for me. It was also the beginning of me missing being in Quiet Riot and
the idea of playing that material again, so that's really what sparked it."

Q How did you decide on Chuck and Alex, given Quiet Riot's long history?

A "I had no reservations as to who I wanted to invite to participate. Chuck and
Alex were in the last version of Quiet Riot when Kevin was alive, and that was
the most stable version of the band ever. The band sounded great, and the band
was touring hard. Everything was looking wonderful for the future, and they were
a part of that."

Q How did Mark become the new singer for Quiet Riot?

A "Kevin DuBrow cannot be replaced as a singer or entertainer, because he was a
phenomenal entertainer, and he cannot be replaced as a person or as my closest
friend. What's important to me is when people see Quiet Riot they hear it the
way they expect Quiet Riot to sound... We looked into a number of vocalists, and
there were some very good ones, but out of everyone we listened to, Mark was the
one who actually had the vocal abilities and range."

CONTACT contributing arts and music writer Don Thrasher at
donaldthrasher8@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

In human beings, good outweighs the bad

BYLINE: Steve Downes

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 541 words


We are terribly hard on ourselves - and others.

If you eavesdrop on an average conversation, you might well hear people moaning
about young people, old people, middle-aged people and any people.

Things aren't like they used to be, apparently. People just don't have respect
any more. We've become a "walk-on-by" society. There's just no sense of
community any more. People are out for themselves.



If you are a regular reader of The Daily Mail or The Daily Express, it is hardly
surprising that you draw such depressing conclusions. After all, if you are
served relentlessly with a diet of despair, it does leave a bitter taste in your
mouth.

And if you allow your mind to focus too much on the London riots of the last few
days, it is easy to believe that humanity is going to the dogs.

If it's any comfort, riots are nothing new. London was beset by similar scenes
(without the TV stealing, I imagine) with the Evil May Day riots of 1517, the
Bawdy House Riots of 1668, the Gin Riots of 1743, the Gordon Riots of 1780 and
the Battle of Bow Street in 1919.

And I can still remember the Brixton Riots of 1981.

But these unusual outbreaks of violence are not typical of humanity. More
typical are the regular outbreaks of decency and kindness that I have read about
in the newspapers and seen on the television in the last week.

The best example happened on Caister beach, when 15-year-old Paige Anderson was
close to death as she became trapped under the sand.

Did people walk on by? Did they heck.

No, despite the odds appearing to be long, all manner of people rushed to the
scene to help, and collectively pulled off a heroic rescue that saved Paige and
restored her father Michael's faith in people.

Then we had the horrific polar bear attack on a group of British teenagers in
northern Norway.

The Daily Mail might expect it to be an "every person for himself" situation.
But people fought for each other, and it was the bravery of one marksman who
brought the incident to a close before it became a slaughter.

Flick through any copy of the EDP and you will find countless stories of people
involved in charity work, voluntary work or selfless caring.

In yesterday's paper, we had a "celebration of life" event for Norfolk Zipper
Club, which has raised £94,000 for Papworth Hospital.

Then there was the tale of Scotty's Little Heroes, a charity set up by the widow
of Cpl Lee Scott, who died in Afghanistan.

And 1,600 cyclists turned out for the Suffolk Coast Bike Ride in aid of Marie
Curie Nurses.

Alongside fundraising came community spirit, which was demonstrated in spades by
huge turnouts at Wayland Agricultural Show, Norfolk Smallholders Show,
Sheringham Carnival, Gig in the Park in Halesworth, Wells Carnival, Lowestoft
Carnival and Caister Lifeboat fete.

Throw in the tale of teenagers (yes, the same age group too often branded feral
and selfish) volunteering to spruce up North Walsham's football ground as part
of a community project, and you should be getting my drift.

There are too many examples of our inhumanity to each other. But they are
comfortably outweighed by acts of kindness and selflessness.

So next time you are tempted to believe the gospel according to the Mail and
Express, pause - and stop being so hard on your fellow human beings.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Long before hockey riots, Grey Cup fans ravaged downtown Vancouver

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 527  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Decades before hockey hooligans ravaged downtown Vancouver in a fit of Stanley
Cup rage, football fans rampaged through the city in wild riots that broke out
during the sport's Canadian championships.

Grey Cup festivities erupted into violent mobs twice during the 1960s, with
revellers pelting police officers with bottles, uprooting street signs and
smashing windows as they tore through the city's core.

Both the 1963 and 1966 riots led to hundreds of arrests, mostly for public
drunkenness and assault, said Michael Barnholden, the author of Reading the Riot
Act: A Brief History of Riots in Vancouver.

"The Grey Cup riot of 1963 was the largest riot in Vancouver history up to that
point, the 1966 riot not far behind," he said in an interview Saturday.

While authorities largely brushed off the first outburst as "part of the
celebrations," the second round shook them enough that some suggested the city
stop hosting the championship, Barnholden said.

The proposal clearly didn't stick -the Canadian Football League's marquee event
has returned to Vancouver several times over since then, and hordes of football
fans flocked to the city for the 99th edition.

Vancouver police came under fire this spring for their handling of the Stanley
Cup finals, which triggered widespread destruction and left the city's downtown
a mess of broken glass and burnt-out cars.

Several reviews of police operations were ordered following the June 15 riot, in
part to determine whether lessons from a similar riot in 1994 were put into
practice.

Vancouver city officials on Saturday said there were more restrictions on where
alcohol would be served and security staff would be doing liquor inspections of
various sites, including the family fun zone outside BC Place.

Police monitoring Grey Cup festivities in the 1960s didn't seem to learn from
their mistakes, Barnholden said.

In 1963, which saw the B.C. Lions face off against the Hamilton Tiger Cats, "the
real action started Saturday after the game," while fans caroused in downtown
bars, he said.

Someone threw a bottle, smacking a woman in the head. The incident caught the
attention of police officers on patrol, but their efforts to arrest the culprit
only riled up the crowd, he said.

Soon people hurtled bottles, rocks, eggs and tomatoes at the officers, who
called in reinforcements, and the area near Granville and Georgia streets turned
into a "battlefront," he said.

Between 3 p.m. Friday and noon Sunday, 319 people were arrested, including 249
charged with public drunkenness, he said.

Most were between the ages of 18 and 24, he said, at a time when the legal
drinking age was 21.

"Police, of course, promised to be better prepared next time," but maintained
they had never lost control of the situation, he said.

When the Grey Cup returned three years later, 200 people were arrested before
the game even started.

The Grey Cup parade, the traditional kickoff to the festivities, took place on a
Friday night and trouble began almost immediately after it wrapped up,
Barnholden said.

Vandals toppled street signs, tore down flags and decorations and shattered
windows, leaving the streets "ankle-deep in broken glass," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Canadian Press; Dancers perform during the  Grey Cup parade in
Vancouver on Saturday. For full coverage of the  99th Grey Cup between the B.C.
Lions and the Winnipeg Blue Bombers,  see Sports 11.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Incarceration of innocent people in communal riots rocks Vidhan Sabha

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 17 -- The issue of communal riots rocked the Vidhan Sabha during
question hour on Monday over incarceration of innocent people for their
involvement in the Muzaffarnagar riots leading to noisy walkout by both BJP and
BSP members. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Mohammad Azam Khan said that
just two communal riots took place in the state since March 2013 and till date,.
"Two communal riots took place in that period. The Muzaffarnagar riots took
place in 2013 and Saharanpur riots in 2014. The other incidents were criminal
clashes," the minister said while answering a question of Nadim Javed (Congress)
and Suresh Rana (BJP.

Giving details of the Muzaffarnagar riots the minister said that 477 cases were
registered in which 1359 people have been made accused. Altogether 1046
criminals have been arrested and action have been taken against 1349 people. In
Saharanpur 237 cases were registered in which 229 people have been made accused
and 99 of them have been arrested, Khan said. However, Nadim Javed alleged that
the government was trying coverer up its failure by projecting communal clashes
as criminal incidents because in the same period Central government records say
that 247 communal riots took place in the state.

But the minister maintained that the Central record also say that in 2013 the
number of communal riots were 247 and in 2014 it came down to 140 while in other
places particularly in the BJP ruled states the number has gone up. Azam Khan
even said that Congress was responsible for Ayodhya demolition which led to
bitterness in relations between minority and the majority community.

BJP member Suresh Rana said that around 500 innocent people who have been jailed
after Muzaffarnagar riots should be released as most of them are senior
citizens. He also claimed that police registered case against nine people who
are already dead. But the minister did not commit anything on the issue which
forced the BJP to stage a walkout.

The BSP also staged a walkout alleging that Muzaffarnagar riots accused were
being given police protection. East UP: Demanding a separate budget for the
eastern UP Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal (BJP) said that this region of the state
was the most backward in all the parameters including education, health and
infrastructure development. Raising the issue during zero hour he said that the
ratio of number of primary schools in one lakh population is least in eastern UP
as compared to other three regions of the state. The State GDP of Eastern UP is
Rs 21,283 while it is Rs 38,500 in west UP, Rs 30,726 in Central UP and Rs
36,304 in Bundelkhand.

Similarly the CD ratio in eastern UP is 25 per cent while it is 52 per cent in
Bundelkhand, 54 per cent in West UP and 46 per cent in Central UP. This shows
the money save in eastern UP is used in development of other states, he said.
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Md Azam Khan said that the government will take
action to bring parity among all the four regions of the state. .

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Gulf Daily News

                                  May 22, 2014

Teenager dies after new riots

LENGTH: 327 words


A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5


     Copyright 2014 Gulf Daily News - Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cup riot prosecutors reject TV broadcasts

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 412  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The first test case of Crown applications to televise Stanley Cup riot-related
trials is expected this month, and so far none of the prosecutors assigned to
handle the cases have consented to their images being broadcast, the president
of the B.C. Crown Counsel Association said Wednesday.

"None of them have given their consent to be captured [by TV cameras]," Samiran
Lakshman said of the riot prosecution team.

Prosecutors have concerns for their safety because they often deal with violent
criminals, so they are hesitant to have their images broadcast on TV and
live-streamed over the Internet during the riot-related trials, he said.

Lakshman also has concerns that legal arguments over allowing TV cameras in
court for riot-related trials will further delay a system that is already under
stress from shortages of court staff, prosecutors and provincial court judges.

"The system is overloaded as it is," Lakshman said. "We are so strapped for
time, why are we adding this additional burden?"

B.C. Premier Christy Clark initially announced in her throne speech last fall
that she wanted to see those accused of taking part in the June 15 riot in
downtown Vancouver held accountable by having their trials broadcast.

The Criminal Justice Branch, which handles criminal prosecutions in B.C., wasn't
initially thrilled with the idea.

But Attorney General Shirley Bond ordered the Crown to apply in court to
broadcast each of proceedings linked to the riot.

So far, the Crown has applied in every case, but there has been no legal
argument heard on the issue.

Defence lawyers are expected to oppose having their clients' cases broad-cast as
well.

The first test case is expected on Jan. 19.

Guilty pleas are expected in many of the riot-related cases because there is so
much video and photographic evidence gathered by citizens during the riot.

The riot resulted in police cars being burned, windows smashed and stores
looted, causing millions in damage after the Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley
Cup final game to the Boston Bruins.

If anyone pleads guilty, the media are expected to join in the Crown application
to broadcast the sentencing of the accused.

Bentley Doyle, communications director for the Trial Lawyers Association of
B.C., said some trial lawyers are concerned that having cameras in court could
prejudice a person's right to a fair trial and might affect the testimony of
witnesses. Cameras might also deter some witnesses from coming forward to
testify, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver, London riots, no comparison, say police

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 248  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Riots throughout Britain earlier this month were eerily reminiscent of the
Stanley Cup riot Vancouver.

Charges have yet to be laid two months after havoc rocked Vancouver's downtown
core when the Canucks lost the hockey final. In contrast, London police have
charged 1,000 suspects since the ruckus began on Aug. 6.

"(While) both countries are plagued with the stigma of hosting a riot, they are
simply not comparable," Staff Sgt. Lee Patterson told reporters Wednesday.

The Vancouver riot was small compared to the deviance that began in London and
spread.

An expansive web of police officers and detectives numbering many times those on
the ground in Vancouver made netting suspects there swift, he said. Cities were
in close proximity so that reinforcements could be brought in with little
difficulty.

Some 16,000 officers snaked through London while one Vancouver-area police chief
has said 800 police officers were out by the end of the B.C. melee.

And a network of closed circuit cameras in the London area meant police could
watch the disorder in real time and direct officers to quell behaviour
immediately, as well as identify suspects with ease. Such a tool is rare and
controversial in Canada.

"They didn't have to pick out faces and prove continuity of movement among
100,000 people," Patterson said.

That's why it's likely to take "months" before Vancouver investigators
completely sort through the mountains of evidence to be in a position to make
arrests, said Vancouver Chief Jim Chu.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             April 29, 2002 Monday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1712 words


The supervisor in Los Angeles is Sue Manning, followed by John Antczak and
Robert Jablon, and can be reached at [213] 626-1200. The supervisor in San
Francisco is Rob Gloster, followed by Justin Pritchard, and can be reached at
[415] 495-1708. Jean-Marc Bouju, Los Angeles photos, can be reached at [213]
626-2500. For technical assistance, call [213] 626-5833 for Los Angeles or [415]
495-1124 for San Francisco. All times are PST.

HEADLINES:

State's highest court refuses to release sex predator

LA has changed since riots, but police, social problems persist

Livermore lab director doesn't expect more nuclear testing

California power grid board to vote on new wholesale market design

Committee approves dismantling state's testing system

Home prices and sales volume expected to show another double digit rise

SEX PREDATOR:

State's highest court refuses to release sex predator

SAN FRANCISCO California's Supreme Court denies the release of sex predator
Patrick Ghilotti, but says Gov. Gray Davis cannot arbitrarily overrule a state
law that sets guidelines for freeing rapists and child molesters after they have
served their sentences.

BC-CA-Sex Predator. About 500 words.

By Kim Curtis.

AP Photo FX107, file photo of Ghilotti.

BC-CA-Sex Predator-Releases.

BC-CA-Sex Predator-Davis.

RIOT ANNIVERSARY:

LA has changed since riots, but police, social problems persist

LOS ANGELES On April 29, 1992, four white police officers were acquitted of the
videotaped beating of black motorist Rodney King. Soon after, the city erupted
in the worst riots of the century. The mayhem lasted four days, leaving 55 dead
and more than 2,000 injured. Entire blocks were reduced to ash. Fires and
looting caused $1 billion in property damage. Los Angeles is a very different
place 10 years later. A booming Hispanic population has altered the social and
political landscape of the nation's second-largest city, and new civic issues
have arisen to eclipse the controversies that made headlines a decade ago. But
some things haven't changed. Controversy and low morale continue to plague the
police department, and racial tensions have subsided but haven't disappeared.
South Central still struggles to develop economically and lags the rest of the
city in wages and jobs.

BC-CA-LA Riots. 1,400 words.

Eds: The riot anniversary package has moved twice in advance and is being rerun
today. There are dozens of photos to go with the package. Please see entire
lineup on separate digest slugged BC-CA-LA Riots, Advisory.

By Erica Werner.

AP Photos LA325-35, a file photo package showing events related to the riots.

AP Photos LA307-311, recent scenes of Vermont Avenue in South Central where
entire blocks of buildings were looted and burned; LA318, Los Angeles Mayor
James Hahn.

With:

BC-CA-LA Riots-Koreans-Blacks.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Korean Activists.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Black LA.

BC-CA-LA Riots-LAPD.

BC-CA-LA Riots-King.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Intersection.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Officers.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Gates.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Moulin.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Denny.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Videotape.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Bay Area.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Vegas.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Victims-Lam.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Victims-Netherly.

POWER:

California power grid board to vote on new wholesale market design

SACRAMENTO California's grid operators will vote on a redesigned wholesale
electricity market one they hope will be bulletproof to the price spikes that
sent the state reeling into rolling blackouts and billions in debt. The
Independent System Operator, manager of the state's electricity grid, is facing
a deadline to rebuild the market by September, when federal price caps expire.

BC-CA-Power Market.

Eds: Developing from 2 p.m. hearing and vote.

By Jennifer Coleman.

AROUND THE STATE:

Livermore lab director doesn't expect more nuclear testing

LIVERMORE, Calif. It's unlikely the United States will resume nuclear testing,
despite Bush administration questions about what it would take to end the
nine-year moratorium, according to the retiring director of Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory.

BC-CA-Nuclear Testing. 730 words.

By National Writer Martha Mendoza.

AP Photos FX101, C. Bruce Tarter, the retiring director of the Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory sits in his office in Livermore, Calif.; FX102,
Tarter takes a look at the sprawling lab from the roof of the building where his
office is located; FX103, Tarter looks out at the view from his office.

Committee approves dismantling state's testing system

SACRAMENTO Legislation that aims to dismantle the state's system for testing
students, ranking schools and enforcing accountability clears an Assembly
committee. The Assembly Education Committee voted 8-6 to pass AB 2347, one of
two hotly debated bills being pushed by the California Teachers Association, the
state's largest teachers union.

BC-CA-School Testing. 600 words.

By Stefanie Frith.

Write-in mayor candidate says her name belongs on ballot

LONG BEACH, Calif. Termed-out Mayor Beverly O'Neill wants her name on the June 4
runoff ballot, adding a new twist to the first mayoral election under the city's
term-limit laws. O'Neill, Vice Mayor Dan Baker and Norm Ryan are trying to
squeeze into two runoff spots, although its unclear whether there will be more
than one name on the ballot.

After the April 9 primary, third-place finisher Ryan filed a lawsuit seeking a
spot on the runoff ballot. O'Neill, who is ending a second-four-year term,
placed first in a write-in campaign with 28.3 percent of the vote, Baker was
second with 24.7 percent and Ryan was third with 22.8 percent.

BC-CA-Long Beach Election. 300 words.

BUSINESS:

Prices and sales volume expected to show another double digit rise

LOS ANGELES The California Association of Realtors releases existing home sales
numbers for March. Prices and sales volume are expected to show another double
digit rise. Developing from 10 a.m. release.

BC-CA-California Housing. About 400 words.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Threat of lockout won't be part of negotiating unless work slowdown imposed

LOS ANGELES The CEO of the Pacific Maritime Association, which represents
shipping companies and terminal operators, says he won't use the threat of a
lockout as a negotiating tactic with the International Longshore and Warehouse
Union when talks begin May 6. But if longshoremen impose a work slowdown, Joseph
Miniace said they should expect a lockout.

BC-CA-Port Labor. About 600 words.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Votes due on future of Enron director Frank Savage, discrimination policy

SAN DIEGO Lockheed Martin shareholders vote on whether its board should retain
former Enron director Frank Savage and whether the company should adopt a policy
banning discrimination based on sexual orientation.

BC-CA-Lockheed Martin. About 400 words.

Eds: Developing from 10:30 a.m. shareholders meeting.

By Seth Hettena.

HP's Fiorina pressed to explain comments in Deutsche Bank call

WILMINGTON, Del. Hewlett-Packard Co. chief Carly Fiorina is called back to the
witness stand to explain why she told a big investor its vote on the proposed
acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp. was "of great importance to our ongoing
relationship.'

BC-HP-Compaq Trial. 900 words.

By Business Writer Brian Bergstein.

AP Photos DEM203-205.

Gates expected to attend conference on diversity in Silicon Valley

SAN JOSE, Calif. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates heads the list of high tech and
telecommunications industry leaders scheduled to attend a Rainbow/PUSH Coalition
conference on diversity in technology in the Silicon Valley. It's a bit of a
breather for Gates, who has spent most of the week huddled in a Washington
courtroom with lawyers as nine states seek tougher penalties against the
software giant in their antitrust suit.

BC-CA-Gates-Diversity. About 350 words.

Eds: Gates spoke at noon.

By Ron Harris.

AP Photos staffing.

ChevronTexaco reports 70 percent drop in first-quarter profit

SAN FRANCISCO ChevronTexaco Corp. says its first-quarter profit plunged more
dramatically than gasoline and oil prices, but the earnings erosion wasn't as
severe as investors had feared.

BC-CA-Earns-ChevronTexaco. 490 words.

By Business Writer Michael Liedtke.

PeopleSoft expected to provide more insights about sudden sales slump

SAN FRANCISCO Business software maker PeopleSoft provides more details about a
slump in sales the company warned about at the start of the month. Tech
investors are expected to pay close attention to PeopleSoft's remarks, since the
company was able to defy the industry downturn last year. The company's stock
has dropped by 40 percent since the company made its surprise warning 3
1/2-weeks ago.

BC-CA-Earns-PeopleSoft. About 400 words.

By Business Writer Michael Liedtke.

Amgen first quarter results due out after market closes

LOS ANGELES Biotech giant Amgen releases first quarter financial results after
the stock market closes.

BC-CA-Earns-Amgen. About 350 words.

Eds: Developing from 2 p.m. conference call.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Unocal reports lower earnings

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. Unocal Corp. reported first quarter earnings of $22 million,
reflecting declines in natural gas and crude oil production and prices.

BC-CA-Earns-Unocal. 250 words.

ENTERTAINMENT:

The Walt Disney Co. reports second quarter earnings

LOS ANGELES The Walt Disney Co. is expected to report second quarter earnings
higher than previously forecast on the strength of increased attendance at its
theme parks.

BC-CA-Earns-Disney. 600 words.

Eds: Disney will report after the market closes at 1 p.m.

By Business Writer Gary Gentile.

After bumpy year, Latin Grammys head to Hollywood

SANTA MONICA, Calif. The Latin Grammys, canceled last year after the terrorist
attacks on the United States, are set for another run, this time at the Kodak
Theatre in Hollywood. C. Michael Greene, president of both the National Academy
of Recording Arts & Sciences and its offshoot, the Latin Recording Academy,
announced details of the event Thursday. He said making the Sept. 18 ceremony a
success has given the 4,000-member Latin music group "a new sense of unity and
purpose.'

BC-CA-Latin Grammys. 300 words.

The AP

AP-WS-04-25-02 1635EDT

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Valley Daily Bulletin


                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Disburse compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to kin of 1984 Sikh riot victims: Rajnath
Singh to CMs

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 26 -- Hours after assuring that justice will prevail against those
guilty, Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday wrote to all Chief Ministers to
take steps for immediate disbursement of compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin
of 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims.

"In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," Rajnath said today after distributing cheques of
enhanced compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.

"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

The Union minister distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.

According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459 people
will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots.

"I want to assure that after getting complaints through this committee,
government will solve them," he said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

Singh said that he wanted to give its credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Calling the 1984 anti-Sikh riots a "genocide", Singh said, "It was not riot, it
was genocide instead. Hundreds of innocent people were killed. The pain of the
kin of riot victims cannot be compensated by even paying crores of rupees."

Meanwhile, some kin of the riot victims said they want the culprits to be
punished instead of the compensation.

"My pain cannot be reduced by money and I want to see culprits being punished.
Even after 30 years, main culprits are roaming free," 70-year-old Amarjeet,
whose husband Satnam was killed in the riots, said after receiving the cheque
from the Union Minister.

"We cannot expect anything from the government. These riots took place in 1984,
but the justice is yet to prevail.

"I don't want money but justice," Bakshish Kaur, whose husband was also killed
in the riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

London riots: Government's response mauled

BYLINE: Press Association

SECTION: NEWS NEWS

LENGTH: 454 words


THE Government has been accused of "insulting" the victims of the 2011 summer
riots in English cities by declining to respond to many of the recommendations
of a panel it commissioned to look into communities' experience of the unrest.

Labour MP David Lammy, in whose Tottenham constituency the riots began, accused
ministers of burying their formal response to the report of the Riots,
Communities and Victims Panel by releasing it without fanfare last month.

There was no ministerial statement and no separate press release to mark the
publication of the response - which was attached to a Communities and Local
Government Department release on July 12 detailing new guidance for firefighters
in riot situations - and as a consequence media coverage was almost
non-existent.

Even one member of the panel - which spent six months visiting cities affected
by the riots to talk to victims and produced a report with 63 recommendations in
March 2012 - said he was unaware that the Government's response had been
published.

Rather than responding to each of the panel's recommendations in detail, the
30-page document sets out the action taken by the Government to deal with the
criminals involved in vandalism and looting, restore business and community
confidence, tackle the deep-rooted social issues underlying the unrest and
improve relations between the police and the public Mr Lammy told BBC Radio 4's
World This Weekend: "We had four days of rioting, taxpayers' money was spent on
this victims and communities inquiry, and the Government slipped this out the
day before recess with no press release at all.

"It deserved a ministerial statement. It deserved a serious discussion in the
House of Commons.

"When you look at the report and see that 39 of the recommendations, out of 63,
have not even been addressed - the Government hasn't even had the decency to
reject them - I have to say this is an insult to the five people who lost their
lives, it's an insult to the many, many ordinary people who lost their shops,
who lost their homes, who lost their buildings.

"The public saw four days of burning in cities as far afield as Birmingham and
Manchester and London and the Government has not been prepared to explain why it
is that it's not prepared to accept the recommendations of its own inquiry.

"It is totally, totally unacceptable and frankly unprecedented in this country."

Communities minister Don Foster rejected suggestions that the Government had
attempted to "bury" its report.

"There have been a large number of different activities that we have done," he
told the programme.

"This is just one part of the package. Surely what ultimately matters is... what
we are actually doing, rather than getting publicity for it."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Full-scale riot' likely in Sydney, says top officer;
APEC in Australia - SECURITY

BYLINE: Andrea Petrie, Sydney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 356 words


POLICE are expecting up to 20,000 people to attend an anti-APEC protest in
Sydney at the weekend and the state's top riot officer told a NSW court
yesterday there was likely to be a "full-scale riot".

Riot squad commander Steven Cullen told Sydney's Supreme Court that officers
were expecting large-scale violence. "Police lines will come under attack and a
full-scale riot is probable," Chief Superintendent Cullen said.

He said that while the organisers of the Saturday march, the Stop Bush
Coalition, planned a peaceful protest, police believed splinter groups such as
the anarchist group Mutiny were likely to incite violence as they had at
Melbourne's G20 riots last November.

NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione sought an order against Stop Bush
Coalition spokesman Alex Bainbridge, banning protesters from walking through
Martin Place, where the US consulate, several major banks and hotels are
located: a restricted police zone during the APEC summit.

Police have been issued with additional powers under special legislation to
search, question and detain protesters.

The protesters changed their route and instead sought approval for an inner-city
sit-in where speeches could be held, but the alternative plans were rejected by
the court yesterday.

Justice Michael Adams acknowledged that there were real issues of public safety
but said the additional police powers could inflame an already highly sensitive
event.

"The powers given to police are very unusual in Australia, I think indeed
unprecedented," he said. "There's no question that there would be many people in
the community . . . (who) would resent the extension of such powers to the
police, even for such a limited period of time."

He stressed that neither the courts nor the police had the power to prohibit
public assembly or free speech. "It's quite wrong that legislation should be
made in a way that is misleading to the public."

Hundreds of students across the country yesterday participated in Walkout
Against George (WAG) protests, organised by activist group Resistance. In Sydney
about 300 young people marched through the streets, and about 200 in Melbourne.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A police sniper at the Hotel Intercontinental, where George Bush
is staying. PICTURE: AAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                              April 8, 2016 Friday

Property help for riot victims - DM calls strategy meeting on April 21

BYLINE: Gautam Sarkar

LENGTH: 414  words


Md. Khalid Hussain (42), a Bhagalpur riot victim of 1989, can now breathe easy.
The local administration has decided to provide help to him and others in
getting back his property which many riot victims where compelled to sell under
duress or distress after the disturbance.



Khalid, a resident of Nurpur Bazar areas on the outskirts of the city, can still
recall the black days of October 1989 when rioters destroyed his ancestral
house.

"The army somehow managed to save our lives and put us inside a makeshift camp
here," Khalid recalled. "After a few months, we shifted to Ashrafnagar locality
in Sahajangi and have been living here since. Later, my father and some 125
families had no option than to sell our property to residents there. Some of us
didn't even get proper amount from the buyers."

Earlier, the Justice NN Singh commission, a panel constituted by the state
government to probe the riots also had underlined the issue whether some
property of the riot victims were sold under duress or distress and asked the
government to take measures to return back such properties to the victims.

The Nitish Kumar government last year accepted the commission's suggestions and
directed the district administration to return property to original owners.
Bhagalpur district magistrate Adesh Titarmaray said the administration would
support those 26 riot victims here whose names were identified as sellers of the
property after the riots.

According to Titarmaray, the administration, with the consent of the 26 people,
would help them to file title suits for cancellation of sale deeds of their sold
properties.

"The court fee, lawyers' fee and other expenditure incurred in the case would be
borne by the administration. The cell looking into riot related cases would
assist victims who already represented their case before the commission and also
those who are yet to approach it," he said. He also said riot victims who
earlier sold their property and are ready to repay their buyers, can avail bank
loans at subsidised rates.

The district magistrate is scheduled to call a meeting on April 21 with the riot
victims to chart a strategy to return their properties.

Basar Ali, a riot victim who contested Bhagalpur Assembly seat on a CPI (ML)
ticket in 2015, however, blamed the government for ignoring riot victims. "I was
also a riot victim and many of us from Parvatti locality were compelled to sell
our property. But our names are not included in the list of the 26 people," he
alleged.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The streets of London;
As the dust settles

BYLINE: LEADERS

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 496 words


PEOPLE don't riot for no reason. But the reasons for the riots now rocking
London are not easy to discern. When street riots began to explode across the
Middle East some months ago they were seen as actions of oppressed societies
determined to shake off the shackles of oppressive regimes.

Other riots in Third World countries were seen as protests against the scarcity
or high price of food. Recent riots in Greece and Spain were expressions of
popular anger against economic austerity measures that were interpreted as
unfairly making ordinary people pay for the mistakes and misdeeds of financiers
and politicians. The 1981 riots in Brixton, London, were judged by an official
inquiry after the events to have been chiefly ignited by a long period of malign
and racist policing in poor black neighbourhoods. Three decades later the London
riots of 2011 are all the more disturbing because they appear so pointless and
inexplicable. Mobs of youths, in the regulation international uniform of jacket
and hoodie, are attacking people and property apparently at random, seemingly
motivated only by rage and criminal opportunism. Londoners debating the riots,
even as they continue, have their own opinions on the causes. To some it's the
product of lax policing and a generation gone astray. To others, perhaps more
thoughtful, it's at least partly the culmination of years of frustration for
young people locked out of the economy by poor education and lack of job
opportunities. Still more see it as a result of Britain's own post financial
crisis austerity drive, with a drastically reduced police force unable to match
the blindly angry mob. Perhaps these riots will never be fully explained. But
they do come at a time when, around the world, populations are losing confidence
in the integrity and capability of their political leaders and resentment is
rising against those who hold the financial levers. Material inequality is, in
many countries, at postwar highs. Education in much of the English-speaking
world has slumped, social programs are in retreat and the agenda in much of the
northern hemisphere is focused squarely on addressing financial crises that few
comprehend. As the dust settles DUST will always be a byproduct of coalmining,
as the Minerals Council readily admits. But techniques are available to reduce
dust and it is pleasing that Hunter mines are working with the NSW office of
environment and heritage to ensure no reasonable measures are overlooked. This
is particularly important in the Upper Hunter, where the scale of the industry's
expansion has turned dust into a major community issue. It is clear that not
every mine owner or manager shares the same level of concern about dust or the
same willingness to accommodate the community's wishes by spending the necessary
money to control the nuisance. In those circumstances the government's
imposition of legally binding dust-reduction conditions on the region's mines is
a welcome intervention.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

China to send more riot police on UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China To Send More Riot Police on UN Peacekeeping Mission in Haiti" - Xinhua
headline]

Beijing, Oct. 18 (Xinhua) - China is to send its sixth riot squad to Haiti in
December on a peacekeeping mission for the United Nations, the Chinese Ministry
of Public Security (MPS) said here Thursday.

The riot police, all from southwest China's Yunnan Province and mostly anti-drug
trafficking police officers, are now receiving training in peacekeeping
knowledge, language, driving, shooting and tactics, according to the MPS.

So far, China has sent a total of five riot squads of 625 police over the last
three years to Haiti since the first riot squad of 125 members was sent there in
October 2004, said Meng Hongwei, vice minister of public security.

In addition to regular patrols, Chinese riot police also rescued hostages,
searched for suspects and offered security safeguards during elections, Meng
said.

"All the Chinese riot police in Haiti have won UN peace medals for their
outstanding performance on the peacekeeping mission," he said.

Besides riot police serving in Haiti, since January 2000 China has sent 430
police on UN peacekeeping missions to countries and regions including East
Timor, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Kosovo, Liberia, Afghanistan, Haiti and Sudan.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0756 gmt 18 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday

Iran's Press TV looks at UK riots

LENGTH: 156 words


The 4 December edition of Iranian English-language Press TV's "INfocus"
programme was titled "Roots of British unrests". It looked at reasons behind
what it called social unrest in this country.

The programme provided background information about the riots and Mark Duggan's
death.

It identified unemployment and poverty as the root causes of the unrest and said
that the areas hit hardest by the riots had the highest unemployment rate.

John Silverman, professor of media and criminal justice, said in an interview
with the programme that there were reasons people rioted in particular areas.

The programme refuted David Cameron's statement that gang members were involved
in the riots. "Statistics shows over 3,000 people were arrested over the riots
so far. Only 13 per cent were gang members," the report said.

The channel also spoke about "child imprisonment" after the riots.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0949 gmt 5 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Inverell Times

                                December 1, 2011

Police officers receive awards

BYLINE: Tim McDonald

SECTION: NEWS - GENERAL

LENGTH: 323  words


INVERELL police officer Senior Constable Peta Hawke was stationed in the Hunter
Valley in 2005 when she was called into riot squad duty for the Macquarie Fields
riots then the Cronulla riots later in the year.

On Tuesday Senior Constable Hawke was among several Inverell police officers
recognised at the NSW Police New England Local Area Command Awards held at the
Inverell Club.

She received two Commissioners Unit Citation and Pin awards as well as the
Northern Region Unit Citation for her brave efforts during the riots.

"I was mostly involved in the Macquarie Fields riots," she said.

"It was one of the only times we've worn the full riot squad outfit with the
shield and helmet."

Sergeant Tony Garland was recognised with the NSW Police Medal at Tuesday's
ceremony.

Former Sergeant Greg Chie was honoured for 35 years service, Senior Constable
Leon Fleming for 30 years, former Senior Constable John Smith and Senior
Constable Gavin Berry for 20 years and Detective Jim Miller for 15 years.

Sergeant Shane Gillespie, Senior Constable Stephen Bostock and Leading Senior
Constable Chris Curtin were also awarded the Western Region Certificate of
Merit.

Inverell Inspector Rowan O'Brien said the awards were a special time to
recognise the work of his officers.

"It's a very fitting occasion to reward the efforts of police throughout the
command," he said.

"It just shows the appreciation for things such as long and diligent service or
acts of bravery."

Member for Northern Tablelands Richard Torbay was at the awards, and gave a
speech to thank the police.

"On behalf of the community I want to say thankyou to all the police," he said.

"The job does come with high expectations, but I know the community is very
appreciative of the work you (the police) do.

"They know when they make that phone call the police will respond in the right
way.

"The police is a family in itself but the police are also part of the family
that is their community."

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

New police units to help deal with riots, protests

BYLINE: MOHAMMAD ASGHAR

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 12

LENGTH: 451  words


Riot police units, which are specialised units equipped with modern techniques
of riot control, are being formed in the four districts of the Rawalpindi
division to effectively control riots, demonstrations and protests.

The need to form the units was felt after it was observed that district police
chiefs were unable to respond to particular situations efficiently because of a
lack of qualified officers to do so.

Therefore, the additional inspector general of police, Rawalpindi region,
decided to establish well-trained Riot Police Units in all the four districts
that will be on a standby to respond to particular situations and help the
regular police force as well.

Regional Police Officer (RPO) Mohammad Wisal Fakhar Sultan Raja has sent letters
to the district police chiefs of Rawalpindi, Attock, Jhelum and Chakwal to
prepare lists of suitable candidates from the existing police force for the riot
units within three days.

The selected officers will first receive two weeks' training at the Police
College Sihala.

Well-trained riot police units will be deployed to confront crowds, protests and
riots. The units will be equipped with proper anti-riot gear and will be
stationed at police lines at all times to deal with law and order situations,
RPO Raja said.

He directed concerned officials to make sure that the selected officers were in
good shape and do not have any long-term illnesses. The upper age limit of a
candidate for an upper subordinate in the new units is set at 45 years and for a
constable not more than 40 years.

From Rawalpindi, 95 police personnel, including five sub-inspectors and
assistant sib-inspectors, 10 head constables and 80 constables will be selected
to join the new unit. While from Jhelum, two upper subordinates, three head
constables and 45 constables will be selected for the riot unites. Also, four
upper subordinates, six head constables and 50 constables will be selected from
Attock police and two upper subordinates, three head constables and 45
constables will be selected for the riot police unit from Chakwal.

The Riot Police Units will be tasked with controlling riots, dispersing crowds,
maintaining order and protecting lives and property.

On many occasions, the police have had a hard time taming violent protests in
Rawalpindi. In November last year, violence grew in Jhelum over the 'desecration
of the holy Quran' and the army and Rangers had to be called in to control the
situation. Army officers had to be deployed to control the protesters who also
set fire to a factory.

Police officials were also beaten by supporters of the Pakistan Awami Tehreek
when the chairman of the party, Dr Tahirul Qadri, landed at Benzir International
Airport in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 Delhi Edition

Police on high alert to fight communal flare-up

BYLINE: Nitisha.Kashyap@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 417 words


Delhi Police officials are on their toes and have put sensitive areas on high
alert to avoid any fallout of the Faridabad riots. Learning from past mistakes
of not being able to handle communal tension, cops are now better prepared to
avoid incidents like Trilokpuri or Bawana.

A 'Communal Riot Scheme' has been prepared to handle riot-like situations.The
plan highlights sensitive and communal areas, number of pickets deployed and
anti-riot equipment in police stations, among other things.

"Monday's communal violence in Faridabad took place for around an hour. However,
with Shab-e-barat approaching, border areas and sensitive places have been put
on high alert and cops briefed accordingly ," a senior police officer said.
Delhi Police said they will extend help to Faridabad police, if needed.

The Communal Riot Scheme is divided into three stages -prevention, operational
and post-riot. The first stage involves handling the situation at the micro
level, including arranging meetings with peace committees, RWAs, mohalla
committees and community liaison groups. Cops in plainclothes

would be deployed at various places to keep a watch on rumours or exaggerated
versions of real incidents. Apart from increased foot and mobile patrolling, new
pickets would be set up in riot-prone areas.

The operational stage would be put into operation when communal violence has
flared up. This involves setting up of a special control room and mobile
communication unit near the riot spot.Senior police officers would take stock of
the situation and send forces to trouble spots. An ACP rank officer and an
inspector would rush to the spot with anti-riot equipment to control law &
order, manage the crowd and help in rescue operations.

"This stage would also include arresting rumour mon

gers and criminals who try to exploit the situation. Cops will be deployed to
keep surveillance over kerosene, petrol and chemical storage depots so that
bombs aren't made. Drones with cameras would be used to identify rooftops with
bricks and stones.All police stations will keep a reserve force ready with riot
gear, arms and ammunition," said a senior police officer.

In the final post-riot stage, the focus would be on cleaning up of the area,
removal of the dead and maintaining peace. Peace committees would be formed and
inter-religious activities would be held, like Hindus volunteering in a Muslim
festival and vice versa. Supply of essential commodities, such as milk,
vegetables and medical van, would be made available.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Sangareddy riot was organized ' Only Muslims targeted

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, April 5 -- A delegation led by Prof. Kodandaram, Convener Telangana
Political Joint Action Committee visited the riot affected area of Sangareddy
town. The delegation included Prof. Rama Meekote. (Forum for better Hyderabad)
Mr. Nusrath Mohiuddin, Secretary INSAF committee Maulana Syed Tariq Quadri,
General Secretary Soofi Academy, Mr. Mujahid Hashmi, General Secretary, People's
Action Committee. Captain Panduranga Rao, Major Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Quadri
(Help Hyderabad) Mr. Srinivas Goud (Telangana Gazetted Officers' Association)
Mr. C. Vithal (President, Telangana Gazetted Union) Mr. Sanaullah Khan
(Telangana Praja Front), Prof. K. Eshwar Reddy, Mr. D.P. Reddy, Mr. T. Ashok,
Mr. Beeraiah Yadav, Mr. Syed Sabir Ali, Mr. Mohammed Arif Ali (President U.M.F.)

The delegation inspected the damaged properties. While speaking to the victims,
they got the details of the losses and the reasons for the sudden outbreak of
the riot. It also assessed the hidden role of the local MLA.

The victims specifically told the delegation that this communal riot was an
organized one. Only the properties of the Muslims were targeted. The riot was so
sudden that the people could not adopt any protective measures. The miscreants
damaged shops with iron rods, sticks and petrol.

Police stopped the Muslim mob whereas the miscreants were given free hand. If
the police had reacted quickly, such a big loss of property wouldn't have
occurred.

Addressing the press conference Prof. Kodandaram told that if the police have
been alert this could have been averted. Even after informing about the riot,
police didn't come for help. They alleged that wherever congress assumes power,
communal riots take place.

Maulana Mujahid Hashmi and Major Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Quadri told that riot
occurred due to inefficiency of police and at the instance of local MLA.
Municipality is removing the debris to prevent the revenue authorities to arrive
at the correct estimates of the losses. They said that all those culprits who
have destroyed the properties in the communal riot will reap the consequences
soon. They also condemned the arrests of innocent Muslim youths
indiscriminately.

People told the delegation that they and the victims and sufferers are being
arrested. They lost confidence in the Govt. machinery they urged to include
Muslim representatives also in the estimates committee. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

TEENAGERS TURN RIOTS INTO DRAMA

BYLINE: ByMarion McMullen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 356 words


THE riots that shocked the country have led Coventry teenagers to speak out
about violence on the streets.

They have taken over an empty warehouse at Far Gosford Street and are inviting
audiences to explore the reasons behind the mass riots that hit cities like
Birmingham, London, Wolverhampton and Manchester and destroyed shops and
businesses.

Juliet Hill, aged 15, said: "When the riots happened people started to blame
teenagers and we felt this was our chance to show we're not all bad and that
teenagers can be a positive force in our society."

Juliet and other city teenagers have been working with Coventry-based
performance company Highly Sprung on audio performance Under The Hood.

The piece is inspired by the recent riots and looting the cast have spent their
summer break working on the project.

So far 530 have been arrested in connection with the Birmingham riots.

Alistair Whelan, aged 13, said: "We wanted to look at both sides of the argument
and investigate the reasons behind the riots."

The free audio tour opened yesterday at Unit 4 Fargo Village at Gosford
Industrial Estate and continues today with performances at 5pm, 6pm and 7pm.

Audience are taken on a 20 mnute journey through the riots and the events and
people that surrounded them. Annie Kruntcheva, aged 15, said: "We're performing
in an old warehouse and this has really challenged us. I think because of the
space we have created a really rich and strong performance with some original
ideas, like the audience all have to wear headphones and follow the performance
around the space."

Under The Hood is part of the group's Silver Arts Award summer project.

The Coventry cast also includes 15-year-olds Sonali Gupta, Sian Fedeski, Katie
Staunton and Will Mann.

Mark Worth, of Highly Sprung, said: "All the young people involved are members
of the Highly Sprung weekly workshops for children and young people and they
have given up three weeks of their summer to take part in the project."

Juliet said: "We decided that we wanted to look at a modern and relevant topic
that is affecting us as young people." To book for a performance email
underthehood2011@yahoo.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIOTOUS PERFORMANCE: Young people are putting on a performance called
Under the Hood inspired by the recent riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

London wildfire may spark rebirth, growth;
OPINION & ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Philip Dwyer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words


Riots sometimes mark needed change, writes Philip Dwyer. THE French have a
saying: "The more things change, the more they stay the same". The London riots
strike me as being similar to two other riots that have taken place in the not
too distant past, in Paris, and in Los Angeles. In Paris, as in London, the
riots were triggered by the deaths of two teenagers who were being chased by
police in a relatively underprivileged district (Clichy-sous-Bois) in October
2005. What started out as a protest against the deaths degenerated into two
weeks of rioting that spread to hundreds of cities and towns across France. They
resulted in 5200 arrests, 250 buildings destroyed and almost 10,000 cars burnt.

In LA, thousands took part in widespread rioting over a six-day period in April
and May 1992 when a jury acquitted three white and one Hispanic police officers
accused of beating Rodney King. A largely black population vented their rage and
frustration in a manner that makes the London riots pale in comparison. More
than $1 billion worth of property was damaged, thousands of people were injured,
and 53 people killed. As in London, looting was also a hallmark of the LA riots.
This has led some political commentators to comment on the moral decay of
British society. The more serious journalists do their best to understand cause
and effect, often bringing in experts to help explain the social, political or
economic factors behind the riots. They are supplemented by anecdotal reports
and interviews of politicians, police or people on the streets, who all have
their own views on why the rioting occurred in the first place, why it takes on
such proportions, and especially why it assumes the character that it does.
These vary from the "opportunistic criminal elements" decried by the right, to
the left invariably pointing to urban poverty, unemployment, substandard housing
and underfunded education systems as the explanation for the rioting. Just about
every commentator in the English-speaking world has felt compelled to explain
why these riots occur. The types of explanations offered range from the
breakdown of the family, the welfare system, "disenfranchised youths" who used
new media such as Facebook and Twitter to organise looting, to "copycat
rioting". Interestingly, exactly the same kinds of explanation recur every time
there is an urban conflagration. Of course, the reasons for the London riots
will be understood only with the passing of time, and mature reflection, but
this is hardly the first riot in the UK. Brixton immediately springs to mind. As
with similar riots in France and the US, a clear pattern is emerging. They occur
as a result of police shootings, or police chases that sometimes result in
death, or they can be triggered by trials when particular groups feel the
verdict is unjust. In the past few decades, then, the riots are triggered by
interactions between the police, or the judicial system, and local communities.
But it goes back even further than that. Riots have played an important part of
the history of Britain, France, the US, and even Australia. Think of the Boston
Tea Party or the Bastille. In Britain, there is a tradition of popular disorders
that can be traced back to the 17th century. Australian riots fall into that
tradition as well, from the Liverpool riots of 1916 to Newcastle's own 1979 Star
Hotel riot, which has the dubious distinction of being the largest in Australian
history. Riots are often about anger and frustration. In the case of London, it
is about the anger and frustration among a particular group of people who want
to feel accepted by the country in which they live, but who are not. Or at least
they do not feel as though they are accepted. The rioters usually belong to
marginalised groups with broken dreams and promises of integration that have not
materialised. Rioters express themselves not through words, but in their
actions. What they attack has meaning. Changes in behaviour during riots, from
attacking the police to looting in the case of London, are not random. They are
actually quite rational and, as we have seen, organised, targeting particular
areas and stores. There is, to use a stock phrase, "method in their madness".
That said, people involved in rioting can get carried away and do things that
they would never normally do. Looting appears to have been so prevalent during
the London riots that some otherwise "respectable" people put the normal rules
of society aside. Although incredibly violent and destructive, riots can also
lead to positive changes. Race riots can lead to attempts to bring about greater
racial harmony between the police and local communities; riots of the kind we
have witnessed in London can lead to urban renewal. Just as importantly, riots
can reveal significant social changes. It is salutary when riots do occur to
take a few steps back and reflect on what it might all mean. Philip Dwyer is
head of the Violence and Social Order Program in the Humanities Research
Institute at the University of Newcastle.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING RAGE: The focus changed from attacks to looting, not collective
murder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

BJP gains in polls after every riot, says Yale study

BYLINE: DP Bhattacharya

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 504 words


GANDHINAGAR: While many within the Congress blame its electoral debacle to the
party's obsession with "minority appeasement", a recent study conducted by three
political scientists of the Yale University claim that had Congress lost all
close elections between 1962 and 2000, there could have been 10% more communal
riots in the country.

Gareth Nellis, Michael Weaver, Steven Rosenzweig, political scientists from the
Yale University in their paper titled "Do parties matter for ethnic violence?
Evidence from India", have maintained that "the election of a single Congress
MLA in a district brought about a 32% reduction in the probability of a riot
breaking out prior to the next election. Simulations reveal that had Congress
candidates lost all close elections in our dataset, India would have faced 10%
more riots and thousands more riot casualties".

"The pacifying effect of Congress incumbency appears to be driven by local
electoral considerations, in particular the party's exceptionally strong
linkages to Muslim voters during the period we investigate," they have written.
They further maintain that "riots produce ethnic polarization that benefits
ethno-religious parties at the expense of the Congress". The paper maintains
that while the Hindu-Muslim riots are electorally costly for the Congress, these
riots in effect strengthen the "ethno-religious parties at the expense of
multi-ethnic ones like the Congress".

Analysing the effect of riots on the vote share of "Hindu nationalist parties",
the paper notes that "the BJS/BJP saw a 0.8 percentage point increase in their
vote share following a riot in the year prior to an election". "The polarization
of the electorate induced by riots disadvantages Congress in subsequent
elections, making it counter-productive for the party's affiliates to instigate
riots following an electoral loss," the paper notes.

"In addition, local Muslim voters - on whom the Congress depended for votes -
would presumably have looked unfavorably towards Congress orchestrating riots in
which Muslims were the principal victims. This would make instigating riots a
highrisk strategy where there are large Muslim populations, yet this is
precisely where we find the effect of Congress to be strongest," the paper adds.

"India itself underwent traumatizing paroxysms of Hindu-Muslim violence during
the partition of the subcontinent in 1947; there were fears following
independence that enmity stemming from this cleavage would again tear the
country apart," the paper notes.

It adds: "The paramount importance of Congress's role is underscored by the fact
that our estimates likely place a lower bound on its true impact. Taken in
conjunction with the main result, our secondary finding that riots reduce
subsequent Congress vote shares raises the possibility of a feedback loop or
multiplier effect, whereby the outbreak of Hindu-Muslim violence causes Congress
to lose votes and seats, which in turn leads to more riots, and so on in a
vicious cycle."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Delhi cops on high alert to combat communal flare-up

BYLINE: Nitisha Kashyap

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 426 words


NEW DELHI: Delhi Police officials are on their toes and have put sensitive areas
on high alert to avoid any fallout of the Faridabad riots. Learning from past
mistakes of not being able to handle communal tension, cops are now better
prepared to avoid incidents like Trilokpuri or Bawana.

A 'Communal Riot Scheme' has been prepared to handle riot-like situations. The
plan highlights sensitive and communal areas, number of pickets deployed and
anti-riot equipment in police stations, among other things.

"Monday's communal violence in Faridabad took place for around an hour. However,
with Shab-e-barat approaching, border areas and sensitive places have been put
on high alert and cops briefed accordingly," a senior police officer said. Delhi
Police said they will extend help to Faridabad police, if needed.

The Communal Riot Scheme is divided into three stages - prevention, operational
and post-riot. The first stage involves handling the situation at the micro
level, including arranging meetings with peace committees, RWAs, mohalla
committees and community liaison groups. Cops in plainclothes would be deployed
at various places to keep a watch on rumours or exaggerated versions of real
incidents. Apart from increased foot and mobile patrolling, new pickets would be
set up in riot-prone areas.

The operational stage would be put into operation when communal violence has
flared up. This involves setting up of a special control room and mobile
communication unit near the riot spot. Senior police officers would take stock
of the situation and send forces to trouble spots. An ACP rank officer and an
inspector would rush to the spot with anti-riot equipment to control law &
order, manage the crowd and help in rescue operations.

"This stage would also include arresting rumour mongers and criminals who try to
exploit the situation. Cops will be deployed to keep surveillance over kerosene,
petrol and chemical storage depots so that bombs aren't made. Drones with
cameras would be used to identify rooftops with bricks and stones. All police
stations will keep a reserve force ready with riot gear, arms and ammunition,"
said a senior police officer.

In the final post-riot stage, the focus would be on cleaning up of the area,
removal of the dead and maintaining peace. Peace committees would be formed and
inter-religious activities would be held, like Hindus volunteering in a Muslim
festival and vice versa. Supply of essential commodities, such as milk,
vegetables and medical van, would be made available.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

DEBATE LOOKS FOR ANSWERS TO CITY RIOTS

BYLINE: Vicky Farncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 326 words


HUNDREDS of students and community activists gave up their Saturday to discuss
what could be learned from the Birmingham riots.

The event, 'After the Riots: Analysis and Debate' took place in a lecture
theatre at the Birmingham Midland Institute, in Margaret Street, Birmingham.

Speaker Ajmal Hussain, a research associate from Aston University, said he was
delighted by the turnout. "There's been quite a diverse crowd," he said. "It
just goes to show the appetite for wanting to know what was behind the riots,
particularly as there hasn't been any appropriate response from the Government."

Amjal's speech focused on the gaps between public figures and the communities
they represent, now and before the riots.

"People have been looking to their politicians for answers. Following the
Handsworth riots there were three separate inquiries. This time there's been
nothing," he said. "It's been brushed under the carpet."

Malcolm James, from the London School of Economics, gave a talk based on his
experiences working with young people in deprived areas of London.

"When you understand their feelings of deprivation and marginalisation, then you
understand why they took part in the riots," he said.

Among those listening to the debate was University of Birmingham student Malia
Bouattia, aged 23, of Edgbaston. She said she had been initially pleased by the
riots as it showed people were making a stand against racial injustice.

"I thought it was good that people were being heard," she said. "I came here
today because I was interested in hearing more about why there has been no civil
response."

Student Leander Jones, aged 21, was keen to argue that the riots were not
mindless violence but the result of poor social policy.

"The 1981 riots took place in exactly the same areas," he said. "I think that's
conclusive evidence that there are underlying factors causing them."

The event was organised by the British Sociological Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Trouble: The Orange shop on New Street is looted during the riots.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

'84 riot victims pledge support to SAD-BJP

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Ludhiana


Lashing out at the Congress for neglecting the families affected by the 1984
anti-Sikh riots, the Danga Peerit Welfare Society on Friday said it would
support the SAD-BJP alliance in the state.

President of the Danga Peerit Welfare Society Surjit accused the Congress of
shielding those guilty in the riots.

"Having given tickets to Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar, the Congress withdrew
their candidatures later realising that it would invite defeat in the
forthcoming elections."

Accusing Congress candidate Manish Tewari of being "anti-Sikh", Surjit Singh
said he (Tewari) never condemned the riots during his campaign.

"It's a clear indication that the party did not want to administer justice. Even
after 25 years, nobody has been punished," he said.

Asked to comment on the riot-hit families who have reportedly sided with the
Congress, Surjit Singh said, "They are not riot victims or part of the society."

Society members who were victims of the 1984 riots also expressed anguish for
the Congress. Having lost her husband, son and son-in-law to the riots, Harbans
Kaur said: "The Congress never came to us. How can anybody from the party expect
votes from us?"

Another victim, 75-year-old Veera said the families were unhappy with the
treatment meted out to them by the Congress.

Asked if the society had any soft corner for Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh,
another riot victim Jeevan Kaur said, "Dr Manmohan Singh is only a stamp in the
hands of the Congress."

Also present in the press conference were chairman of the society Gurdev Singh,
Chairperson of the Ladies wing Gurmeet Kaur, Manmohan Singh Haibowal, Amarjit
Singh Dhawan, Satbirpal Singh Sonu, Inderpal Singh Vicky, Balbir Kaur,
Lakhwinder Singh Lakha, Amarjit Singh Babbal, Satnam Singh Satta and Parminder
Singh among other leaders.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

England riots: Alex Salmond angry as 'UK' headlines sweep Scotland into fray

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 655 words

ABSTRACT

Scotland's leader fears copycat riots and damage to tourism as media portrays
unrest with broad brush

FULL TEXT

Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, has complained about broadcasters
headlining coverage of urban unrest as "UK riots". Salmond said he was not
complacent but claimed Scottish society was different from that in England, and
that similar riots were much less likely in Scotland.

By referring to the riots as being UK-wide, he said, the risk was increased of
copycat riots in Scotland and damage to Scotland's reputation as a tourism
destination.

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, he said: "We know we have a different society in
Scotland, and one of my frustrations was to see this being described on BBC
television and Sky as riots in the UK. Well, until such time as we do have a
riot in Scotland, then we've seen riots in London and across English cities.
It's actually unhelpful to see them inaccurately presented, because one of the
dangers we face in Scotland is copycat action."

His stance was backed by Scottish National party MSPs, as well as bloggers, who
claimed that Welsh and Northern Irish citizens would share the irritation.

But Labour and the Liberal Democrats accused Salmond of "scoring cheap political
points", saying he was guilty of significant political misjudgment.

Meanwhile, police in Cardiff reported four incidents in the city on Tuesday
night, including two arson attacks, an attempted looting and disturbances at a
takeaway.

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, said: "The first minister's reaction to
the riots is small-minded, and embarrassing if he really thought the most
important thing was that they should be called 'English riots' on TV. Surely he
could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities devastated
by this criminal violence first and foremost?"

Gray said his daughter had married a man from Manchester this week; his family,
who had just visited the Scottish parliament, were worried about the violence in
their home city.

Gray said: "I was proud to show them the Scottish parliament but embarrassed by
the first minister's keenness to distance himself from their concerns and
portray the riots as an English problem. There are few Scots who don't have
relatives or friends in the places affected south of the border. Alex Salmond
does not seem to recognise that there are many parts of England that are luckily
untouched by riots, like Scotland, and that an argument about their geography
helps no one."

Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrats' leader, accused Salmond of
"seeking narrow political advantage out of the misery of others". He added:
"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder, and instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep-rooted issues here."

Two teenagers are to appear in court in Scotland accused of trying to
orchestrate riots using Facebook: a 16-year-old will attend Glasgow's court and
an 18-year-old is expected to appear at Dundee sheriff court on similar charges.
Tayside police said they were pursuing other similar investigations.

Joan McAlpine, a prominent backbencher who is close to Salmond, tweeted:
"#ukriots: the riots are NOT in UK or Britain. They are in England. Scotland is
riot free & welcomes all peaceful visitors. #noriotsinscotland." She added
later: "That's incorrect and could damage Scotland unfairly," adding in another
tweet: "It's an English problem."

The SNP contrasted the description of the riots as UK disturbances, with
coverage of the sectarian violence and parcel bombs targeting Celtic football
club this year: this was not seen as "UK".

Visiting Sunderland fans, in Edinburgh for a friendly match on Saturday against
Hibernian, were violently attacked by local youths before and after the game.
There were eight arrests and two people treated for a broken rib and head
injuries.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Good Samaritan seeking justice; 'I threw caution aside,' says Robert Mackay of
Stanley Cup riot beating

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 344  words


Six suspects have been identified and their faces are now on a police website in
the cowardly assault of Good Samaritan Robert Mackay during the Stanley Cup riot
.

Mackay of Vancouver, who tried to fend off people smashing the windows along the
600-block Granville Street at about 8: 30 p.m. on June 15, talked to the media
Tuesday about the swarming that happened during the infamous night.

Mackay said he's not sure why he tried to fend off looters smashing the large
windows at The Bay, but he does recall the mob turning on him - and he wants
justice.

"I threw caution aside and let my emotions go," Mackay said of his bid to stop
the damage.

He suffered cuts and bruises from the mob that kicked and punched him and doused
him with pepper spray, but he has since recovered.

Now, he wants those who beat him charged.

"I think all the rioters need to be held accountable," he said. "Just admit your
crime. Admit what you did and deal with it."

Integrated Riot Investigation Team Insp. Les Yeo said police have charged three
suspects in the "appalling" attack on Mackay and are looking for another six.
The riot squad released a video showing the other suspects they are seeking.

The riot squad also released a new set of 250 photos and launched a new website
to catch those behind the riot.

"Today is the day 250 more rioters have dreaded," said Yeo.

The riot squad now has 350 images of suspects up on the new website and Yeo said
police would like the public to go to the website "and hold these rioters
accountable."

Yeo said Mackay showed a lot of courage when he tried to get the looters to stop
smashing the storefront windows. "There were a lot of attackers on this Good
Samaritan," he said. "We need your help for this cowardly and gutless attack."

The Crown has approved 116 criminal charges against 43 suspected rioters. Of
those, 20 are young offenders and can't be named.

Anyone with information about the riots or those involved can visit the VPD's
dedicated riot investigation website at: https: //vancouver
.ca/police/riot2011/index.html.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne - PNG; Vancouver police released images of six assault
suspects Tuesday, stemming from the June 15 Stanley Cup riot. Integrated Riot
Investigation Team commander Insp. Les Yeo also introduced Robert Mackay (left),
who was beaten on the night of the riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

1984 Anti-Sikh riots: CBI files final report on Jagdish Tytler's involvement;
The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday submitted its final report
before the Kakardooma court concerning the role of Jagdish Tytler in the 1984
Anti-Sikh riots case.

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 276  words


The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday submitted its final report
before the Kakardooma court concerning the role of Jagdish Tytler in the 1984
Anti-Sikh riots case. The Kakardooma court is to consider the report on 28
September 2016. Earlier on September 9, the CBI had questioned Congress leader
Jagdish Tytler about his involvement in the 1984 Sikh riots. The CBI had
summoned him to re-investigate his role in the riots that happened on November
1, 1984. Reports had suggested that Tytler had been called to the CBI
headquarters and was interrogated for several hours.

Earlier, the CBI had filed a report of closure dismissing all the charges
against Tytler. Following this report, Lakhvinder Kaur, whose husband Badal
Singh was a victim of the riots had filed a petition challenging the CBI's
report. The CBI closure report had then been rejected by a court in Delhi, which
had also asked the CBI to re-investigate the involvement of Tytler in the 1984
riots referring to Abhishek Verma, arms dealer's statement that Tytler had
previously attempted to influence a witness.

The court had said that the CBI must find out if Verma's statement had any solid
ground. Arms dealer Abhishek Verma had earlier attempted to influence a witness
by offering him k=money and making promises of sending his son abroad. The 1984
Anti-Sikh riots can be linked to the assassination of former prime Minister
Indira Gandhi. The riots led to numerous cases of violence and deaths throughout
the country. The survivors of these riots have said that the nightmare continued
even after the riots as they were shifted to refugee camps, that were meant to
shelter them.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    February 19, 2014 Wednesday 11:07 AM GMT

Video: Horrifying moment riot officer tries to kick grenade away and has his
foot blown off;
The shocking footage from Bangkok shows a Thai police officer trying to kick the
grenade away from colleagues, but he acts too late

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 165 words


Grenade attack on riot police in Thailand

This is the horrifying moment a Thai riot officer tries to kick away a grenade
only for it to explode blowing off his foot.

Footage posted online shows a line of riot police hunkered down on the floor in
the Thai capital Bangkok, protecting their position with riot shields.

But a grenade is soon shown being thrown into the frame, landing right in front
of the officers' barricade.

One heavily armoured officer stands up, and goes to kick the explosive away.

But at the moment of contact, the grenade explodes in a ball of fire and huge
cloud of smoke - sending him and his colleagues flying to the ground.

Thailand has been embroiled in a long-running political crisis, which has at
times led to violent clashes in the capital between police and anti-government
protesters.

On Tuesday, three people were killed and dozens more wounded as authorities made
their most determined effort yet to clear demonstrators from the city's streets.

Man kicks grenade

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                    February 19, 2014 Wednesday 11:07 AM GMT

Video: Horrifying moment riot officer tries to kick grenade away and has his
foot blown off;
The shocking footage from Bangkok shows a Thai police officer trying to kick the
grenade away from colleagues, but he acts too late

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 165 words


Grenade attack on riot police in Thailand

This is the horrifying moment a Thai riot officer tries to kick away a grenade
only for it to explode blowing off his foot.

Footage posted online shows a line of riot police hunkered down on the floor in
the Thai capital Bangkok, protecting their position with riot shields.

But a grenade is soon shown being thrown into the frame, landing right in front
of the officers' barricade.

One heavily armoured officer stands up, and goes to kick the explosive away.

But at the moment of contact, the grenade explodes in a ball of fire and huge
cloud of smoke - sending him and his colleagues flying to the ground.

Thailand has been embroiled in a long-running political crisis, which has at
times led to violent clashes in the capital between police and anti-government
protesters.

On Tuesday, three people were killed and dozens more wounded as authorities made
their most determined effort yet to clear demonstrators from the city's streets.

Man kicks grenade

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             August 5, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MP ACCUSES GOVERNMENT OF INSULTING SUMMER RIOT VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 202 words


THE Government was accused of "insulting" the victims of the 2011 summer riots
in English cities by declining to respond to many of the recommendations of a
panel it commissioned to look into communities' experience of the unrest.

Labour MP David Lammy, in whose Tottenham constituency the riots began, accused
ministers of burying their formal response to the report of the Riots,
Communities and Victims Panel by releasing it without fanfare last month.

There was no ministerial statement and no separate press release to mark the
publication of the response - which was attached to a Communities and Local
Government Department release on July 12 detailing new guidance for firefighters
in riot situations - and as a consequence media coverage was almost
non-existent.

Even one member of the panel, which spent six months visiting cities affected by
the riots to talk to victims and produced a report with 63 recommendations in
March 2012, said he was unaware that the Government's response had been
published.

Mr Lammy said "I have to say this is an insult to the five people who lost their
lives, it's an insult to the many, many ordinary people who lost their shops,
who lost their homes, who lost their buildings."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2013 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

'Awfully busy' Narendra Modi tried his best to save 2002 Gujarat riot victims:
SIT

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 349 words


AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) has done
much more than just giving a clean chit to Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi
on allegations of his involvement in the 2002 riots.

Not only does the report, submitted by SIT chairman RK Raghavan, exonerate Modi
from the criminal charge of conspiracy and facilitating riots, it goes an extra
mile to explain the efforts of an "awfully busy" Modi to protect the riot
-affected and offer them relief and rehabilitation.

Experts say the closure report is very different in spirit than the first report
submitted by SIT member AK Malhotra, who had questioned Modi's actions on
several counts including allegedly deputing cabinet ministers in police control
rooms and his negligence towards the riot-affected. Raghavan's report claims
Modi visited Gulbarg Society and Naroda Patia, which witnessed two of the worst
massacres during the riots, and relief camps on March 5 and 6, 2002.

Stating that the Army was called in well in time, the report further says, "The
CM was awfully busy with the steps to control the law and order situation,
providing medical treatment to the riot victims, their rehabilitation, giving
ex-gratia payment to the riot affected, NGO relief camps and with the payment of
compensation for destruction of properties during the riots, and also with his
efforts to restore peace and normalcy in the state."

The closure report admits that the state government was wrong in not banning the
BJP-supported VHP bandh on February 28, 2002, but in the same breath adds it
doesn't amount to conspiracy. On charges of Modi issuing illegal instructions to
allow Hindus to vent their anger, the SIT states, "The chief minister emphasized
that miscreants (in the train carnage case) should be apprehended and not
allowed to escape. He was also concerned about the number of causalities in the
incident. The CM gave directions that steps should be taken not to delay medical
help for passengers and to impose curfew to avoid any untoward incident, Godhra
being a sensitive place."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Police costs for investigating Stanley Cup riot: $2m

BYLINE: Susan Lazaruk, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 336 words


Investigating the hockey riot has cost Vancouver police $2 million in overtime
and other additional costs.

And the Vancouver Police Department - which has dedicated between 50 and 70
officers as well as other staff from other departments to its riot squad since
last June 15 - said it spent another $5 million, mostly on base salaries, on
what it called the largest investigation of its kind in Canadian history.

But those were costs the VPD would have spent anyway, the head of the riot
squad, Insp. Les Yeo, said Wednesday in the first public accounting of the costs
of policing the riot.

Other police forces in the area spent $2 million on staff salaries for those who
worked on the investigation, again from their regular bud-gets, Yeo said.

"The amount we [police] spent that we wouldn't have spent if there was no riot
was $2 million," police Chief Jim Chu said following the monthly police board
meeting.

Vancouver police have recovered about $1 million from the provincial government,
Chu said.

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson, who is on the police board, said he hoped to
recover the remaining $1 million from the province.

Both he and the police noted that 85 per cent of the arrests for rioting and
other criminal acts that night were of people who didn't live in the city of
Vancouver.

"We would like to see more costs coming our way," Robertson said at the meeting.

Yeo estimated the damage that night amounted to $3 million.

There was damage to 89 businesses and 113 vehicles, a third of which were police
vehicles, said Yeo.

The investigation involved going through 5,500 hours of video, and investigators
tagged 15,000 different criminal acts, involving 65,000 different people.

To date, 508 charges have been recommended, 175 of them against rioters, and
prosecutors have approved 225 charges, including 85 against rioters.

Yeo said officers are in the process of recommending 100 more charges.

Three people have pleaded guilty and "there are more to come," he said.

slazaruk@theprovince.com twitter.com/susanlazaruk

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Morning Star (Wilmington, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

BRIEF: Race riot author to lead discussion

BYLINE: Ben Steelman, Star-News, Wilmington, N.C.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 188 words


Oct. 13--The author of a state-sponsored history of the Wilmington Riot of 1898
will lead a discussion of the riots and their aftermath at 6:30 p.m. Thursday at
the Bellamy Mansion Museum, 503 Market St.

Admission is free.

LeRae Umfleet is author of "A Day of Blood," a result of research by the 1898
Wilmington Race Riot Commission, set up by North Carolina's General Assembly.
The meticulously assembled report details the events of Nov. 10, 1898.

The book, published by the state, earned Umfleet an Award of Merit from the
American Association of State and Local History. Umfleet is assistant director
of the Tryon Palace state historic site in New Bern.

The 1898 incident has been termed the only successful coup d'etat in American
history, as armed bands of whites burned a black-owned newspaper and deposed a
biracial city government. The death toll has been estimated between 15 and 60.

Copies of "A Day of Blood" will be on sale. For details, call the museum at
910-251-3700.

___ (c)2015 the Star-News (Wilmington, N.C.) Visit the Star-News (Wilmington,
N.C.) at www.starnewsonline.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151013-WG-BRF-Race-riot-author-to-lead-discussion-1013-20151013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WG


                          Copyright 2015 Morning Star


                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

BJP gains in polls after every riot, says Yale study

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: Gandhi Nagar


Gandhi Nagar, Dec. 8 -- While many within the Congress blame its electoral
debacle to the party's obsession with "minority appeasement", a recent study
conducted by three political scientists of the Yale University claim that had
Congress lost all close elections between 1962 and 2000, there could have been
10% more communal riots in the country.

Gareth Nellis, Michael Weaver, Steven Rosenzweig, political scientists from the
Yale University in their paper titled "Do parties matter for ethnic violence?
Evidence from India", have maintained that "the election of a single Congress
MLA in a district brought about a 32% reduction in the probability of a riot
breaking out prior to the next election. Simulations reveal that had Congress
candidates lost all close elections in our dataset, India would have faced 10%
more riots and thousands more riot casualties".

"The pacifying effect of Congress incumbency appears to be driven by local
electoral considerations, in particular the party's exceptionally strong
linkages to Muslim voters during the period we investigate," they have written.
They further maintain that "riots produce ethnic polarization that benefits
ethno-religious parties at the expense of the Congress". The paper maintains
that while the Hindu-Muslim riots are electorally costly for the Congress, these
riots in effect strengthen the "ethno-religious parties at the expense of
multi-ethnic ones like the Congress".

Analysing the effect of riots on the vote share of "Hindu nationalist parties",
the paper notes that "the BJS/BJP saw a 0.8 percentage point increase in their
vote share following a riot in the year prior to an election". "The polarization
of the electorate induced by riots disadvantages Congress in subsequent
elections, making it counter-productive for the party's affiliates to instigate
riots following an electoral loss," the paper notes.

"In addition, local Muslim voters - on whom the Congress depended for votes -
would presumably have looked unfavorably towards Congress orchestrating riots in
which Muslims were the principal victims. This would make instigating riots a
highrisk strategy where there are large Muslim populations, yet this is
precisely where we find the effect of Congress to be strongest," the paper adds.

"India itself underwent traumatizing paroxysms of Hindu-Muslim violence during
the partition of the subcontinent in 1947; there were fears following
independence that enmity stemming from this cleavage would again tear the
country apart," the paper notes.

It adds: "The paramount importance of Congress's role is underscored by the fact
that our estimates likely place a lower bound on its true impact. Taken in
conjunction with the main result, our secondary finding that riots reduce
subsequent Congress vote shares raises the possibility of a feedback loop or
multiplier effect, whereby the outbreak of Hindu-Muslim violence causes Congress
to lose votes and seats, which in turn leads to more riots, and so on in a
vicious cycle."

Thanks

http://m.economictimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/bjp-gains-in-polls-a...

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A teenager's view of the week of shocking violence on our streets;
First person Kelleigh Bowen, 15, of Rushcliffe School, on a recent school play
called Louder which highlighted the impacts of last summer's riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 380 words


FRIDAY the 13th. Normally an unlucky day, but in July 2012 it was a day
Rushcliffe School will never forget.

The school hosted a drama production called Louder, which was about the riots of
last year.

The play was not only performed by the students but directed and written by them
as well. Some of the audience said "we had to shed a tear at the end" and "how
could young people write this?" Louder gave everyone a new take on the riots and
how different people were affected in different ways. Louder made me think about
the riots and what the roles of teenagers were.

The riots started in Tottenham, London, in early August of last year after the
shooting of a man by police officers. This led to a protest.

The protest started peacefully and then turned violent which then led to copycat
riots all over the country, from Manchester to Merseyside and even Nottingham.

Everyone always stereotypes teenagers - obnoxious, uncontrollable and out of
favour the majority of the time. The riots were no exception.

However maybe this stereotype was deserved due to the fact that 52 per cent of
the total offenders convicted for the riots were between the ages of 10 and 20
years.

Do you really think that people looted shops and destroyed towns because of the
police shooting one man? Or was it just greed? Many people think that the riots
were young people, in particular, smashing shop windows and stealing the goods
that they contain.

It seemed to become a free shopping spree to many people which was gifted to
them with the excuse that they were rioting against the police.

On the other hand many people said the police were the target of their violent
protests. Countless individuals would also say that, by partaking in the riots,
they were disagreeing with the Government and the policies that the Government
have implemented to change and interfere with the jobs of the police.

However, the riots caused a significant amount of damage which affected many
people.

Shop owners suffered thousands of pounds of damage, houses and cars destroyed
and people afraid to leave the houses due to the risk of being injured. The
riots were a terrible thing that shook the whole country out of shape yet they
might have been a good thing - they gave many people a new start even if they
didn't want it.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Disorder: Police on horseback outside the Victoria Centre at the height
of the riots in Nottingham last August. Pupils at Rushcliffe School produced a
play about the events called Louder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                Lucknow Edition

Mock anti-riot drill held at Police Lines

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 216 words


A mock anti-riot drill was held at Reserve Police Lines on Friday to prepare
cops for upcoming festival season. Around 300 cops participated in the event
along with water cannons. The exercised aimed at creating a better coordination
among different units of the district police and improving response time to any
law and order situation.

The drill aimed at training personnel in real time situation and scenario. Force
should be familiar with terrain and location of sensitive zones, said trainers
and stressed on co-ordination with parallel units such as riot control.

While a group of 50 was tasked to create a riot-like situation, cops were asked
to counter their attack step by step on the directions of their seniors. To
counter the attack, water cannons, rubber bullets, tear gas and riot control
teams were also used.

Launching the training, Allahabad SSP KS Emanuel, "Every police unit has a
pre-defined specific role in tackling riot-like situation, be it LIU, civil
police, tear gas party, mounted police, fire department, lathi party and firing
party ."

"From intelligence gathering to chasing or scattering mob through tear gas, cops
have predefined roles but need to work collectively . All units must be linked
together and initiate steps one after another to over-power rioters," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

First minister is accused of points-scoring

BYLINE: Tim Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Riots/public order; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


Alex Salmond was accused last night of trying to make political capital out of
the riots engulfing many cities across England.

The main opposition parties claimed the first minister was trying to score
points amid the misery of people affected by looting and arson.

Mr Salmond said he was "frustrated" that the trouble was being described as "UK
riots" when it was not happening in Scotland.

But he added there was an obligation on his government to help and that was why
Scottish police forces had sent officers to England.

The first minister said: "One of my frustrations yesterday was to see the events
being described as riots in the UK. Until such time as we do have a riot in
Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Scotland Office Minister David Mundell said that while Mr Salmond's offer of
police support was "positive", his comments had gone too far. "What is unhelpful
is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of a terrible
situation," he said.

"It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated by media descriptions
of riots in the UK - as if that was the most pressing issue we face.

"I think most Scots would prefer to see the Scottish Government concentrate on
providing practical assistance as part of the UK rather than scoring cheap
points."

Scottish Labour leader Iain Gray, whose daughter is marrying a young man from
Manchester this week, said: "The first minister's reaction to the riots is
small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most important thing was
that they should be called English riots on TV.

"Surely he could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities
devastated by this criminal violence first and foremost."

Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie described Mr Salmond's comments as the
"worst face of nationalism".

"It's very unfortunate that the first minister is seeking narrow political
advantage out of the misery of others," he said.

"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder and, instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep rooted issues here."

The Scottish Government said officials had received "a number of calls" from the
public expressing concern at the media's description of the riots as being UK
riots.

The government had contacted the "relevant broadcasters" and the latest coverage
had shown that concerns had been taken on board. A spokesman said: "It is
important a proper picture is painted internationally, so people know Scotland
remains a safe tourist destination." Comment, Page 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            February 11, 2008 Monday

Recognition of race riot only proper

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words


SPRINGFIELD is a town steeped in history. Our local economy relies heavily on
it, and the historic importance of our town has always been a point of pride.

Yet for decades, visitors to Springfield would learn nothing of an important yet
not so proud chapter in this city's history. The August 1908 race riot here is
historic far beyond the mere recollection of the two days of violence that left
seven people dead. The fact that the riot happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln elevated its significance at the time. The fact that it led to the
creation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
elevates it from locally to nationally historic today.

The $300,000 state grant awarded last week for a sculpture by noted artist
Preston Jackson to commemorate the riot may have been the greatest step to date
toward giving the Springfield race riot the recognition it has long deserved.

EQUALLY significant is the placement of Jackson's work - to be unveiled in
October - in Union Square Park, a place heavily traveled by visitors as they
begin their journeys through Springfield's Lincoln sites. There, it is sure to
be seen by people who previously had no knowledge of the Springfield race riot
or its role in the start of the NAACP.

For a town that so revels in its connections to history, Springfield has never
had an easy relationship with the race riot. Unlike Lincoln, whose presence here
unites us, the race riot has always been divisive. Its discussion can quickly
polarize almost any group, especially along racial lines. As we approach its
centennial, we are certain to hear from those who would rather see it simply
fade into the forgotten past.

Yet history does not give us that luxury, nor should we seek it. This community
will only benefit from the interest and open discussion of the race riot
Jackson's work will surely generate.

SPRINGFIELD was hardly unique in having had a race riot. Many American towns
did. Such was the nature of post-Civil War race relations in America. What makes
Springfield's unique is that it occurred just blocks from the place where, 50
years and two months earlier, Lincoln delivered his House Divided Speech - one
of the most significant speeches in abolition history. Springfield may have been
proud to be the hometown and final resting place of the man who freed the
slaves, but racial attitudes of the day prevailed over Lincoln's message in
1908.

That we are finally recognizing this event in such a public fashion shows how
far we have come. That it surely will continue to be a polarizing topic shows
how far we have yet to go.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

RPF shuns 'heavy' bulletproof jackets;
Many in the anti-sabotage units put on lighter riot gear vests and go unpunished
as those are similar looking, find seniors in the force

BYLINE: Binoo Nair

LENGTH: 362  words


The Railway Protection Force authorities in Mumbai have chanced upon a dangerous
trend among some of their personnel. The officials have found that several of
their personnel in the anti-sabotage units, who should move around in
bulletproof vests and helmets, armed with assault rifles are using riot gear
vests instead of the bulletproof ones.

The reason, they have found out is that the riot gear vests are lighter, comes
covered with disruptive pattern camouflage clothing, and decrease the load that
the personnel otherwise have to carry. While the bulletproof vests came in
almost two years ago, the riot gear vests came in a couple of months ago.

The danger, however, lies in the fact that these riot gear vests have
polycarbonate plates in them, which can protect the wearer from stones, rods,
crude bombs - the usual dangers faced in a riot - but are absolutely useless
against both small firearm and assault rifle bullets.

"The total load of a fully uniformed anti-sabotage personnel can go up to 30
kilograms. Moving about at the stations at night, hopping onto and off trains,
is tiresome. Now, with these riot gear vests the weight comes down
considerably," said a senior RPF official.

Officials on condition of anonymity told dna that verbal orders had been issued
to RPF inspectors to ensure that the practice is stopped forthwith including
handing out suspensions to the violators. Several RPF posts have begun to keep
the riot gear vests and the bulletproof ones separately, so that the violation
can be controlled. "The anti-sabotage checks are a routine affair, whereas a
riot isn't. So, an inspector should ensure that the riot gear comes out only
when a riot-like situation is declared," said an official.

"A soldier fully protected by a bulletproof combat gear feels far more confident
psychologically in a terror firefight than one who isn't. A soldier in a riot
gear vest during such a fight will not be able to respond effectively since he
knows that he will have to shield his body from bullets. It defeats the  purpose
of having a fully armed frontline fighting mechanism to take on terrorists, if
they try a repeat of 26/11 at CST," said an official.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

First minister is accused of points-scoring

BYLINE: Tim Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Riots/public order; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


Alex Salmond was accused last night of trying to make political capital out of
the riots engulfing many cities across England.

The main opposition parties claimed the first minister was trying to score
points amid the misery of people affected by looting and arson.

Mr Salmond said he was "frustrated" that the trouble was being described as "UK
riots" when it was not happening in Scotland.

But he added there was an obligation on his government to help and that was why
Scottish police forces had sent officers to England.

The first minister said: "One of my frustrations yesterday was to see the events
being described as riots in the UK. Until such time as we do have a riot in
Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Scotland Office Minister David Mundell said that while Mr Salmond's offer of
police support was "positive", his comments had gone too far. "What is unhelpful
is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of a terrible
situation," he said.

"It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated by media descriptions
of riots in the UK - as if that was the most pressing issue we face.

"I think most Scots would prefer to see the Scottish Government concentrate on
providing practical assistance as part of the UK rather than scoring cheap
points."

Scottish Labour leader Iain Gray, whose daughter is marrying a young man from
Manchester this week, said: "The first minister's reaction to the riots is
small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most important thing was
that they should be called English riots on TV.

"Surely he could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities
devastated by this criminal violence first and foremost."

Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie described Mr Salmond s comments as the
"worst face of nationalism".

"It's very unfortunate that the first minister is seeking narrow political
advantage out of the misery of others," he said.

"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder and, instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep rooted issues here."

The Scottish Government said officials had received "a number of calls" from the
public expressing concern at the media's description of the riots as being UK
riots.

The government had contacted the "relevant broadcasters" and the latest coverage
had shown that concerns had been taken on board. A spokesman said: "It is
important a proper picture is painted internationally, so people know Scotland
remains a safe tourist destination." Comment, Page 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday

Small-scale artwork is a riot

BYLINE: Colin McNeill

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


DEVASTATING scenes of destruction and chaos on Scotland's streets have never
been so miniscule as in this new art installation.

Acclaimed artist Jimmy Cauty, famous for being one half of the KLF pop group,
has brought his Aftermath Disclocation Principle (ADP) from Banksy's Dismaland
on a tour of the UK.

And it has now been placed at the site of one of the worst riots in Edinburgh's
history.

The artwork - a small-scale miniature - shows a model village being subjected to
mindless vandalism, large blazes and dozens of riot police on its streets. It
arrived in a graffiti-covered container and was placed in Edinburgh's
Grassmarket area, the site of the Porteous Riots in 1736.

The mass riot ended in the lynching of John Porteous, the then captain of the
City Guard. The ADP Riot Tour is visiting sites of historic riots and will
remain in Edinburgh until November 7.

Pictures: Gordon Terris

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2016 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       August 4, 2013 Sunday 2:43 PM GMT

Government's riots response mauled

SECTION: PA NEWS FEEDS

LENGTH: 454 words


The Government has been accused of "insulting" the victims of the 2011 summer
riots in English cities by declining to respond to many of the recommendations
of a panel it commissioned to look into communities' experience of the unrest.

Labour MP David Lammy, in whose Tottenham constituency the riots began, accused
ministers of burying their formal response to the report of the Riots,
Communities and Victims Panel by releasing it without fanfare last month.

There was no ministerial statement and no separate press release to mark the
publication of the response - which was attached to a Communities and Local
Government Department release on July 12 detailing new guidance for firefighters
in riot situations - and as a consequence media coverage was almost
non-existent.

Even one member of the panel - which spent six months visiting cities affected
by the riots to talk to victims and produced a report with 63 recommendations in
March 2012 - said he was unaware that the Government's response had been
published.

Rather than responding to each of the panel's recommendations in detail, the
30-page document sets out the action taken by the Government to deal with the
criminals involved in vandalism and looting, restore business and community
confidence, tackle the deep-rooted social issues underlying the unrest and
improve relations between the police and the public

Mr Lammy told BBC Radio 4's World This Weekend: "We had four days of rioting,
taxpayers' money was spent on this victims and communities inquiry, and the
Government slipped this out the day before recess with no press release at all.
It deserved a ministerial statement. It deserved a serious discussion in the
House of Commons.

"When you look at the report and see that 39 of the recommendations, out of 63,
have not even been addressed - the Government hasn't even had the decency to
reject them - I have to say this is an insult to the five people who lost their
lives, it's an insult to the many, many ordinary people who lost their shops,
who lost their homes, who lost their buildings.

"The public saw four days of burning in cities as far afield as Birmingham and
Manchester and London and the Government has not been prepared to explain why it
is that it's not prepared to accept the recommendations of its own inquiry. It
is totally, totally unacceptable and frankly unprecedented in this country."

Communities minister Don Foster rejected suggestions that the Government had
attempted to "bury" its report.

"There have been a large number of different activities that we have done," he
told the programme. "This is just one part of the package. Surely what
ultimately matters is... what we are actually doing, rather than getting
publicity for it."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

BRIEF: 9 Inmates, a Few Officers Injured in Prison Riot

BYLINE: Sam Cohen and Teri Cox, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Dec. 07--FOLSOM -- Nine ambulances were called to a California state prison
Wednesday after a riot that left several inmates injured.

The riot is now contained at the California State Prison-Sacramento, also known
as the new Folsom Prison.

A total of 9 inmates have a variety of stab and gunshot wounds, no word how
serious they are. A few correctional officers were injured, but they are minor
injuries.

Four of the inmates that were sent to the hospital have already been released as
of 5:15 p.m.

The riot happened around 12:30 in the afternoon in the main exercise yard.
Officials say it lasted about 10 minutes and involved about 50 people.

When asked if 10 minutes was long for a prison riot, Dept. of Corrections' Sgt.
Tony Quinn said it's "extremely long."

Officers used pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under
control.

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Officials at the Prison told FOX40 there was also a riot on Monday.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.

___ (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at
www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111207-5KT-BRF-9-Inmates-a-Few-Officers-Injured-in-Prison-Riot
-1207-20111207

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                           December 11, 2005, Sunday

Report on 1898 riot to be released; 600-page draft to be put on public display

BYLINE: Angela Mack, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 222 words


The Wilmington Race Riot Commission will publicly release its draft report
Thursday that examines the conditions that led up to and consequences that
followed the 1898 Wilmington Race Riot.

The public can get its first look at the 600-page report at an 11 a.m. press
conference at Thalian Hall. The report consists of 260 pages of text and 400
pages of maps, pictures and charts.

A limited number of reports will be made available. The full report can be
downloaded at www.ah.dcr.state.nc.us/1898-wrrc/.

In 2000, the General Assembly created the 13-member commission to develop a
historical record of the coup d'etat that replaced the city's duly elected
officeholders with white supremacists. The report is the first to examine the
economic impact the riot had on Wilmington's black community and the city's
shift in demographics after African-Americans were forced out of town.

Rep. Thomas Wright, D-New Hanover, chairs the commission. The N.C. Department of
Cultural Resources Office of Archives and History completed the research for the
report.

Public input on the draft report will be sought after its release. Lawmakers
will be |asked to reauthorize the commission in May, which will allow it to
issue its final report to the General Assembly.


Angela Mack: 343-2009

angie.mackstarnewsonline.com


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 Star News


                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Five inmates charged in fatal prison riot

BYLINE: Chad Previch, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: CUSHING


Five more inmates were charged Friday in connection to a March 22 riot that left
one inmate dead and 13 injured.

Nathaniel O. Griffin, Arthur C. Jones, Martin D. Reed Jr., Jackie D. Ruble and
Kentrel Wimms were charged with participating in a riot which resulted in a
death, Payne County District Attorney Rob Hudson said.

Hudson could seek the death penalty on that charge.

Sedarfes Moore, Eugene Gutierrez, Cedric D. Poore, Shawn Byrd, Jason Williamson
and Mark Ford previously were charged with first-degree murder, but those
charges have been amended to the riot charge.

Eric M. Johnson has been charged with first-degree murder, and prosecutors think
he's the one who fatally stabbed Adam Lippert, 32, with a homemade knife at the
Cimarron Correctional Facility, Assistant District Attorney Tom Lee said Friday.

"The riot statute in this state states that when a death occurs during a riot,
the participants in the riot can be punished in the same manner as the principal
defendant in the case," Hudson said.

About 65 prisoners in two gangs fought March 22 in a recreational area of the
privately operated Cimarron Correctional Facility. Lippert was fatally stabbed
during the riot in which inmates used aluminum bats, horseshoes and homemade
weapons.

All 12 inmates charged are now in the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester,
Lee said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday

BRIEF: Right track after riots

BYLINE: Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 120 words


March 10--Abraxas Academy had two riots last year in which nine juveniles were
arrested and a dozen employees were injured.

Despite that, the state has renewed its license because subsequent inspections
showed no deficiencies, and Abraxas implemented improvements after the first
riot.

Abraxas officials say the two riots were an anomaly but part of the job because
residents are violent juvenile offenders.

To see more of the Reading Eagle, or to subscribe, go to
http://www.readingeagle.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Reading Eagle, Pa. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110310-RE-BRF-Right-track-after-riots-0310-20110310

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2011 Reading Eagle


                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

Improved race riot markers unveiled

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words


Springfield has spruced up eight historical markers commemorating the
Springfield 1908 race riot.

Seven of the markers are rectangular concrete stands stationed near the sites of
significant riot events. An eighth marker is a plaque secured to the east side
of a large brick kiosk on the south end of the Old Capitol Plaza.

The seven concrete markers have recently been wrapped with black, vinyl-like
sleeves with commemorative wording. The city also has placed commemorative black
banners on lampposts near each of these markers. Smaller versions of the banners
have been placed near the eighth marker.

On Aug. 14, 1908, a white mob, angry after being kept from lynching two black
inmates in the county jail, turned against black residents and businesses in
Springfield. After two days of rioting, seven were dead, including two black men
who were lynched, and dozens of homes and businesses were destroyed. The riot
led to the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People.

In the early 1990s, two Springfield schoolgirls began a campaign to raise
awareness of the riot. As a result of their efforts and others, including civil
rights activist and riot researcher Velma Carey, who died last year, the markers
were erected in 1994.

"I just know she would be very happy," said Carey's daughter, Carolyn Blackwell,
who attended a Friday morning unveiling of the newly wrapped marker at Seventh
and Washington streets. "When she was still alive, sprucing up the markers was
one of the things she wanted done."

The wrappings and banners cost about $5,600 altogether, according to Tim Farley,
executive director of the Springfield Visitors and Convention Bureau. Farley
said the city picked up some of the cost, but state tourism grants covered the
rest.

Farley said the wrappings will stay on for about a year, at which point the city
will consider rewrapping them.

Beverly Peters, chairwoman of the city's race riot commission, said the markers
and banners are part of the city's efforts to commemorate the riot. The
commission also is working on a series of interviews with riot experts that will
run on the city's public access television station. She also said plans are in
the works for an event that will take place in mid-August to coincide with the
anniversary of the riot.

On Aug. 1, a temporary ninth marker will be erected at Union Square Park as a
stand-in for a Preston Jackson sculpture honoring the riot to be installed early
next year.

On the Web

To learn more about the Springfield 1908 race riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/raceriot/.

To learn about events commemorating the riot, visit
www.visit-springfieldillinois.com/Race-Riots/default.asp.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

If Modi comes to power, nation will see riots: Mayawati

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Lakhimpur Kheri (UP)


Lakhimpur Kheri (UP), April 10 -- BSP supremo and former Uttar Pradesh Chief
Minister Mayawati on Thursday took a dig at BJP prime ministerial nominee
Narendra Modi over Gujarat riots and said if such a person is voted to power
"the whole nation will witness riots".


 Addressing an election rally here, Mayawati cautioned the people against
electing Modi. "BJP has announced Modi as its prime ministerial nominee in whose
regime in 2002 Gujarat witnessed the country's worst ever riots in Godhra... If
such a person is voted to power at the Centre, the whole nation will witness
riots," she said.
 Attacking her arch-rival Samajwadi Party, she said the "rule of law has
vanished" in Uttar Pradesh since the party came to power in the state and only
"goondas" and "mafias" are ruling the roost. "Murder, theft, dacoity, rape and
riots have become the order of the day," she said.
 Mayawati criticised the SP government for riots in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli and
said, "These riots have in particular damaged the Muslim community a lot."
 In her about 45-minute speech at the local government inter-college sports
ground, the BSP supremo gave a clarion call to the Muslim community "not to get
divided". "To prevent BJP from reaching the Centre, the Muslim community must
ensure that their unified support is for BSP and any division among them would
only benefit the BJP," she said.
 Mayawati blamed the Congress in particular and other parties including BJP in
general for the neglect of UP, the minorities, OBC and the Dalit community.
 "Even BJP during its six years' regime did nothing to improve the fate of the
country, as well as that of the poor and the weaker sections," she said and
appealed to the people to vote for her party's candidates - Arvind Giri in Kheri
and Daud Ahmad in Dhaurehra.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday

Congress demands Akhilesh's resignation over Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 10 -- The Congress on Tuesday demanded Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister
Akhilesh Yadav to step down over Muzaffarnagar riots. While launching a attack
on Samajwadi Party and BJP, Congress UP-incharge, Madhusudan Mistry said that
the BJP and SP have conspired to ignite this riot. He said, "We are seeing a
repeat of Gujarat".

However, SP chief Mulayam Singh said that the admisitration has controlled
Muzaffarnagar riots well. He said, "The state government was completely alert.
The administration controlled the riots in two days time. The security forces
and administration acted sensitively."

Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has promised strong action against those
responsible for the riots. He said, "We will rehabilitate those affected by
riots. The situation is under control.

There has been no incident since last night. Arrests are still being made. A
total of 162 people have been arrested and 32 are confirmed dead."

Meanwhile, the death toll in the communal clashes in Muzaffarnagar district of
Uttar Pradesh has risen to 38 on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, BJP MLA Som
Sangeet was booked for uploading a fake video that incited communal tensions in
Muzaffarnagar district and nearby areas of Uttar Pradesh. Officials had said it
was the fake video which led to tensions and incited violence between the two
communities.

People are trying to spread rumours to disturb communal harmony through social
media and using fake videos to disturb communal harmony in the state. Strict
action will be taken against them," UP Home Secretary Kamal Saxena.

Curfew has been relaxed in Muzaffarnagar for two hours from 3.30 pm on Tuesday.
The Army and RAF are patrolling the area. Police have filed a case against over
1,000 people and over 160 have been arrested. A FIR is also filed against four
BJP MLAs and a former Congress MP.

The clashes were sparked off after a huge convention of a particular community
had gathered in the town on Sunday to protest against several cases of sexual
harassment reported in the past couple of weeks. According to local police some
participants in this convention got into a fight with villagers on the outskirts
of Muzaffarnagar. As this group got into town, some of those who had been beaten
up started ransacking shops.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Anarchists' best friend Mystery 'Riot Dog' is hero of Athens protesters

BYLINE: Matthew Day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 178 words


A mystery dog that has braved the tear gas and petrol bombs of every Athens riot
since 2008 has become an unlikely darling of the country's radical Left and
anarchists.

Photographs show the sandy mongrel in the thick of the action on the side of the
rioters, apparently revelling in the violent confrontations and unfazed by
missiles and pepper spray.

He has been given his own Facebook page under the name Riot Dog, with thousands
of fans expressing their admiration.

"The dog is a real hero," wrote one supporter, while another boasted "Pepper
spray? Riot Dog eats it for breakfast." Although the slogan "Riot Dog was here"
has been sprayed on walls and even police cars in the Greek capital, the true
identity of the dog remains a mystery.

He is also known as Protest Dog, Kanellos, and Louk, after the type of sausage
he, apparently, likes.

The mystery over his identity deepened following allegations that the original
Riot Dog died in battle, and was replaced with a double.

A photograph was produced showing an inert Riot Dog lying in front of police
lines.

Matthew Day

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The mongrel has been pictured in the thick of the action at riots in
the Greek capital since 2008 but its identity remains unknown
AFP/GETTY/ LOUISA GOULIAMAK/ AP PHOTO/THANASSIS STAVRAKIS/ PETROS GIANNAKOURIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 10, 2012 Monday
                                 Drive Edition

OUR VIEWS ;
RULE IS NO LONGER NEEDED;
Time to end pre-approval rule of Voting Rights Act

SECTION: OPINION; OUR VIEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 554 words


A federal court has struck down the Texas voter ID law under a provision of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, which requires U.S. Department of Justice or court
approval for election-law changes in certain states. The theory is that those
states, which once institutionally discriminated against minorities, deserve
more scrutiny than others.

Racism has never respected state lines. The 1965 riots in Watts, the 1967 riots
in Newark, N.J., and the 1992 Rodney King riots in Los Angeles are among the
worst race riots in U.S. history. Cincinnati experienced a race riot as recently
as 2001. Yet the federal government doesn't require California or Ohio to get
pre-approval for election-law changes.

Oklahoma's notorious 1921 racial violence didn't happen in the
Confederate-influenced Little Dixie area of southeastern Oklahoma. It occurred
in Tulsa, a city with cultural ties to the North.

The Ku Klux Klan's greatest state presence was likely in 1920s Indiana.
According to University of Florida history professor David Chalmers, the Klan
was active in every state during that era "and was particularly politically
powerful in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Kansas, Colorado and Oregon,
as well as the South." He writes that the Klan helped elect at least 20
governors and U.S. senators from Maine to California. So even past support for
the noxious Klan doesn't automatically warrant federal pre-approval of state
election laws.

Using 2010 Census data, professors at Brown and Florida State University ranked
the nation's most racially segregated cities. The worst offenders included
locations in California, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Ohio,
Illinois and Wisconsin. Those are hardly Confederate outposts.

Today, no one legally forces citizens to racially segregate. This is equally
true in southern and northern communities. So why does the federal government
act as though one area poses a greater threat of racial discrimination than the
other?

Democrat-dominated Rhode Island has a voter ID law. The concept clearly has
broad appeal that has nothing to do with discrimination and everything to do
with election integrity. Why should similar election laws in Texas and Rhode
Island be treated differently by the federal government?

A history of racial violence, past support for racial-terrorist organizations
and a continuing lack of racial integration don't warrant federal approval of
election laws in many states. So the Voting Rights Act's pre-approval section
effectively and arbitrarily discriminates against citizens based on geography,
not past discrimination or past abuse of minority citizens.

Jim Crow has been dead for nearly a half-century, in Texas and elsewhere. The
country has made huge strides eradicating institutional racism. To the degree
that all forms of racism remain, they can occur anywhere.

Other voter ID laws have withstood court review, including before the U.S.
Supreme Court. So the Texas ruling is hardly definitive. But the federal
government's inconsistent and haphazard reasons for requiring pre-approval of
some state election laws and not others is itself a form of institutional
discrimination.

It's time that all states are treated the same. The provision of the Voting
Rights Act requiring pre-approval of some state election laws should be done
away with.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Reading the Riots: Investigating England's summer of disorder ebook

BYLINE: Dan Robertsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 151 words


Highlights of the Reading the Riots project, the Guardian and LSE's pioneering
research into the causes of the UK riots, are now available as an ebook

In August 2011, rioting erupted in several UK cities following the fatal
shooting by police of Mark Duggan in Tottenham, London. Reading the Riots is the
only research study into the causes and consequences of the summer riots
involving interviews with large numbers of people who actually took part in the
disorder. A project run jointly by the Guardian and the London School of
Economics (LSE), the aim was to produce evidence-based social research that
would help explain why the rioting spread across England. This ebook is a
summary of the results of this ground-breaking survey.

Edited by Dan Roberts, Guardian national news editor, with a foreword by Paul
Lewis and Tim Newburn.

Available for £2.29 from the Kindle store. Available shortly for iBooks.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 24, 2014 Friday

BRIEF: Prison riot breaks out in Turkish province

BYLINE: Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 90 words


Oct. 24--A prison riot broke out in Turkey's north-western province of Izmit,
Milliyet newspaper reported Oct. 24.

The riot occurred in one of the prisons, due to bad detention conditions.
Reportedly, the protests began with prisoners burning some prison cells.

The riot was suppressed by the police. Currently, there are more than 5,000
prisoners in the jail.

Follow us on Twitter @TRENDNewsAgency

___ (c)2014 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141024-1AZ-BRF-Prison-riot
-breaks-out-in-Turkish-province-1024-20141024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2014


                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

150 Inmates Involved in Prison Riot, 2 Remain Hospitalized

BYLINE: Sam Cohen and Teri Cox, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


Dec. 08--FOLSOM -- More than 150 maximum-security inmates were involved in
Wednesday's riot at the California State prison in Folsom; 11 inmates were
injured.

Only two inmates remain hospitalized Thursday, the rest were treated for minor
injuries and released. They had various stabbing and gunshot wounds. None of the
guards were injured by the prisoners, but one did go to the hospital due to
breathing problems caused by the pepper spray.

The riot happened around 12:30 in the afternoon in the main exercise yard at
California State Prison-Sacramento, also known as the new Folsom Prison. The
riot lasted about ten minutes.

When asked if 10 minutes was long for a prison riot, Dept. of Corrections' Sgt.
Tony Quinn said it's "extremely long."

More than 400 staff members and officers responded to the riot. Officers used
pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under control.

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Two tower guards fired those rounds. Tower guards are the only guards allowed to
use such ammunition.

Quinn told FOX40 that three inmates were hit with the lethal rounds, but their
conditions are unknown.

Officials found five weapons used by the inmates hidden in the yard. A more
thorough, "grid" search was done Thursday morning.

The facility will remain on lockdown, pending the investigation, but Quinn said
that shouldn't affect visitors. The facility is only open to visitors during the
weekend.

Officials at the prison told FOX40 there was also a smaller riot on Monday. No
weapons were used.

All inmates involved in the riot will be charged.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.

___ (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at
www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111208-5KT-150-Inmates-Involved-in-Prison-Riot
-2-Remain-Hospitalized-1208-20111208

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Critic's picks

BYLINE: Clint Burnham, Special to the Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST LIFE; Pg. D30

LENGTH: 166  words


HASTINGS ELEMENTARY CALL FOR PUBLIC ART

Deadline; Aug. 18

Hastings Elementary Community School in East Vancouver and its Grounds for Our
Kids' Art group are putting out an open call. This is for artists or collectives
to submit letters to develop a community-based art project to complement a new
garden on the school grounds. Letters of interest and support material must be
received no later than Aug. 18, 2006 for a project to be completed in June 2007.
Please contact Grounds for Our Kids' Art at: groundskidsart@gmail.com

MICHAEL BARNHOLDEN

If you don't riot, you can't complain: walking tour

July 22, 2 p.m.

Part of the Territory exhibition on to the end of the month at Artspeak and
Presentation House Gallery, local activist and author Michael Barnholden
(Reading the Riot Act: A Brief History of Riots in Vancouver) leads a tour that
includes sites of the anti-Asiatic Riot of 1907; the Free Speech riots of 1912;
and the Gastown Riot of 1971. Free. Meet at Artspeak (233 Carrall) July 22 at 2
p.m.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Four more to face riot charges

BYLINE: The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 119  words


Four more people face criminal charges stemming from the 2011 Stanley Cup riot
in down-town Vancouver.

On Wednesday, prosecutors approved nine more charges against four suspected
rioters: Jamil Sunderji, 25, of Richmond for participating in a riot and
mischief over $5,000; James Ca Ha, 21, of Surrey for participating in a riot and
break-and-enter; and two 17-year-olds from Richmond and North Vancouver who
can't be named, for participating in a riot and mischief.

That brings the total to 186 criminal charges against 71 suspected rioters.

The integrated riot investigation team has recommended 348 charges against 150
suspected rioters since the June 15, 2011, riot. More charges are expected in
the coming weeks.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

How did the media cover the riots? Discuss...

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 308 words

ABSTRACT

Conference to consider the adequacy of the reporting on the August disturbances


FULL TEXT

How did the media perform during the riots that broke out in several cities
across England in August?

Did newspapers report fairly? Was the TV coverage truly balanced? Were
journalists guilty of provoking trouble?

These are just some of the questions that are set to be discussed in a major
conference on Saturday week called "Media and the riots."

The organisers are bringing together young people from the riot areas with media
practitioners in the hope of learning lessons about the nature of the coverage.

One key area for discussion will be claims that reporters on the ground failed
to interview enough of the people involved. Were the voices of the rioters and
looters themselves reported?

There is also a belief among many black people, particularly young ones, about
stereotyping and bias.

Perhaps the most interesting question of all is how the incident that started it
all - the fatal shooting by police of Mark Duggan in Tottenham, north London -
was initially reported so inaccurately.

Was that the fault of the media or poor police PR? And was that error a key
reason for the sparking of the disturbances?

"Significantly, foreign coverage of the disturbances was much more balanced than
British reporting in terms of the images used, analysis and breadth of
interviewees," writes Marc Wadsworth, editor of the-latest.com, the citizen
journalism website that is helping to organise the event.

Among the speakers will government adviser Professor Gus John, Dr Mariann Hardey
of Durham University, David Hayward of the BBC college of journalism, NUJ
president Donnacha DeLong and Guardian columnist Hugh Muir

It is being held at the London College of Communication (map here) on Saturday
26 November, running from 10am to 3pm.

More details: The-Latest.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                                 State Edition

Riot trucks to combat street mob

BYLINE: GEMMA JONES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 390  words


CRACK police teams riding on the sides of Los Angeles-style riot trucks were
unveiled yesterday as Sydney's latest weapon to combat riots and terrorists.

In scenes which would have been at home in a big American city, riot police
yesterday showed off 10 ''rapid response'' 4WDs in black and white police
livery.

Seven armed police in full riot gear can stand on the outer boards of the trucks
''ready to rock and roll'' when it reaches rioting mobs.

The officers will also be trained to search for bombs and to restore public
order on Sydney's streets in the event of a terrorist attack using chemical,
biological or radiological weapons.

Teams will be on standby to tackle expected protesters at the APEC world leaders
summit in Sydney next year.

''We are at the front end of the pointy stick all the time, these vehicles give
us another edge that has not been previously used in this country,'' Chief
Superintendent Steve Cullen said yesterday.

In the wake of stinging criticism of the police response to the Cronulla riots
last year, the riot squad will double in size from 50 to 100 officers.

It will also be moved to a new base at Homebush, with the new Nissan Patrol 4WDs
to be on standby 24 hours a day, seven days a week for a ''rapid response''
anywhere in the state.

Los Angeles police first used the tactic after deadly riots in 1992.

''They can take significant force over a significant period of ground,'' Supt
Cullen said. ''Four officers are inside with the driver, externally there can be
one or two either side and four -- with the team leader in the middle -- at the
back. They can carry full riot kit.

''You are not running so when you do step off you're ready to rock and roll, You
can expect to see them all over Sydney,'' Supt Cullen said.

Police Commissioner Ken Moroney said the 4WD teams would be used to quell
riotous behaviour and also deployed to restore public order.

''As we focus towards APEC 2007, and other [events] these officers will provide
a very vital function,'' he said.

In the wake of a terrorist attack, Mr Moroney said crack teams would play a
vital role in restoring public order. Premier Morris Iemma inspected the trucks
with a team of riot police yesterday before announcing the riot squad would
double in size.

He said the riot police would crack down on thugs and hooligans who harass law
abiding citizens.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           September 17, 2013 Tuesday

Akhilesh Yadav booed in Muzaffarnagar over mishandling of riots

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 364 words


LUCKNOW: ChiefMinister Akhilesh Yadav got a taste of public resentment against
his government and party when he was booed by a crowd during his tour of
Muzaffarnagar's riothit areas. Compounding troubles for SP, its Lok Sabha
candidate for Baghpat, Sompal Shastri, expressed his unwillingness to contest as
an SP candidate. A large crowd raised slogans against the chief minister at
Kawal village in Muzaffarnagar, where Akhilesh Yadav had gone on Sunday to meet
the family of Shahnawaz, killed on August 27.

The crowds raised slogans blaming the government for its failure to control the
riots. Many in the crowd said that the CM did not meet ordinary villagers and
remained surrounded by Samajwadi Party workers. Yadav visited several riot-hit
villages including Malikpura and Kandha.

He later said that villagers told him that foreign weapons were used during the
riots. "It has now become apparent some outsiders were also involved in the
riots. We are looking into all angles. Strict measures would be taken and the
National Security Act would be slapped on the accused," said Yadav.

SP continued to battle with the political fallout over the riots as Sompal
Shastri surrendered his ticket to contest the Bhagpat seat. Shastri, a former
Union minister and a respected Jat leader from the area, said that the
government had not been able to handle riots effectively and to express
solidarity with the people of the area he was surrendering his ticket to contest
as a Samajwadi Party candidate.

"It was the responsibility of the government to control the riots. Had the
leadership been alert, the situation could have been avoided. I am deeply
disturbed and therefore distancing myself from the Samajwadi Party," he said.

Shastri, who had once defeated Rashtriya Lok Dal chief and Union minister Ajit
Singh, is regarded as a prominent Jat leader of the area. The Muzaffarnagar
riots had taken on the hues of a Jat-Muslim clash which saw 41 people dead and
at least 43,000 people being displaced temporarily.

With Prime Minister Manmohan Singh slated to visit Muzaffarnagar on Monday, SP
would continue to face the heat over the riots in the coming days.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

Three of the 52 riot accused get clean chit from cops;
Cops detain one more after images confirm his riot act; a section of Muslims
demand inquiry into August 11 police firing

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 169  words


The Mumbai Crime Branch has filed an application for the release of three people
out of the 51 arrested in connection with the riots at Azad Maidan on August 11.

The three men - Abbas Ujjainwwala, Anees Daware and Aslam Ali Sheikh - have been
found innocent. They were arrested on the day of the riot from the spot along
with 21 others.

During interrogation, the police found that the trio was not involved in the
riots and had been wrongly arrested. "We have filed an application with the
Esplanade Court under section 169 of the CrPC. The trio would be released after
the legal procedure is over," said a source from the crime branch.

The crime branch said there was no evidence that the trio had taken part in the
riots.

Meanwhile, Mohamed Mehtab Akhtar Hussain Shaikh was arrested on Monday in
connection with the riots in Azad Maidan, taking the number of arrested persons
in the case to 52. Shaikh's images were clearly captured in the photographs that
showed him created a ruckus and participating in the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riot police move in as rival supporters fight in stands;
Trouble after England fans get into home end 'No surrender' chant stirs memories
of past violence

BYLINE: MattLaw

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 534 words


Riot police were called into the LFF Stadium after fighting broke out between
England and Lithuania fans last night.

A number of England supporters appeared to have bought tickets in the home end,
which angered Lithuania fans ahead of kick off.

As the Lithuania fans appeared to set upon visiting supporters behind the goal
England defended in the first half, riot police moved in to form a human wall.
Rather than try to eject the England fans, the riot police penned Lithuania
supporters into one corner.

After Ross Barkley broke the deadlock for England, riot police sprayed tear gas
at the Lithuania fans to stop them getting at the celebrating visiting
supporters as the situation threatened to turn ugly.

Fortunately, there were no further clashes but the Lithuanian Football
Association is likely to be fined by Uefa for not ensuring the fans were
properly segregated, while England's governing body may also have to answer
questions.

The presence of the riot police did not stop the England fans in the wrong end
singing the national anthem and chanting "No surrender to the IRA".

Lithuania fans taunted "f--- you England" in reply.

England's official allocation of 850 tickets was at one side of the ground that
was properly separated from the home support and there were no reported problems
in that section.

The FA has strict rules on away travel with tickets for members of the England
Supporters Travel Club having to be collected from a predetermined landmark in
the city of the game.

It is unlikely that the fans in the Lithuanian end were members of the Travel
Club and it is up to the Lithuanian FA to carry out due diligence on who they
sell tickets to. There was a UK police delegation, the Association of Chief
Police Of-ficers, in Lithuania who work closely with the FA and try to stop fans
travelling to games without tickets.

An England supporter, who was caught up in the trouble and did not want to be
named, told The Daily Telegraph: "Our tickets, which we bought online months
ago, were meant to be next to the England fans, but it was chaos getting in
"They [the Lithuanian police and stewards] seemed to be directing everyone
towards one entrance behind the goal and we couldn't get into the side where the
England fans were. Nobody sat in their right seats.

"It was getting quite ugly, so we left early. I haven't seen scenes like that
for ages. There seemed to be some of the old-style hooligans among the England
fans in the Lithuania end, but the home fans were trying to get to them. You
wonder how stadiums like that pass the inspections because the seats were
literally rotting and were very easy for people to rip out."

There is a particular sensitivity within the FA about the 'no surrender' chant
because of its association with extreme right-wing elements among England
supporters. The chant went up last spring during the 1-1 friendly draw with
Italy in Turin. Before that, some England supporters sang "F--- the IRA" during
the 3-1 victory against Scotland at Celtic Park.

The incidents led to concerted efforts by the England hierarchy to avoid a
repeat at the match with the Republic of Ireland in Dublin in June. Fortunately
there was no recurrence of trouble at that match.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flashpoint: Riot police enter the crowd to tackle violence in Vilnius
last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

BRIEF: Russian Interior Ministry refutes reports about Azerbaijani's death in
Moscow riots

BYLINE: S.Agayeva, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 174 words


Dec. 16--The Russian Interior Ministry has denied the reports of Russian mass
media that an Azerbaijani citizen died during yesterday's riots in Moscow.

"Information about a death of Azerbaijani citizen during the riots in Moscow on
Wednesday evening contradicts reality," the Ministry told Trend on Thursday.

The Govosrit Moscow radio station reported earlier that an Azerbaijani was
killed in the riots.

Criminal cases were launched after the riots under the articles of
"hooliganism", "attempted murder" and "violence against the authorities",
Russian Investigative Committee spokesman Vladimir Markin was quoted as saying
by RIA Novosti.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at trend@trend.az

To see more of the Trend News Agency, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://en.trend.az/. Copyright (c) 2010, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20101216-1AZ-BRF-Russian-Interior-Ministry-refutes-reports-about-Azerbaijani-s-d
eath-in-Moscow-riots-1216-20101216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2010


                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Taxpayer is facing £100m bill for riot damage compensation

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 459 words


Compensation for property damage in the 2011 riots may exceed £100 million,
according to a report published yesterday.

More than £35 million has already been paid but a review of the Victorian law
covering such compensation suggests that the figure could rise. In addition to
this compensation from the taxpayer, by September there had been 2,254 claims
against insurance companies, worth £167 million, including £1.5 million claimed
by householders.

Disorder spread through London and several other English cities after police
shot dead Mark Duggan in Tottenham, North London, in August 2011.

Neil Kinghan, a former civil servant commissioned by the Home Secretary to
review the 1886 Riot Damages Act, called for reform to a piece of legislation
that requires the police to pay compensation for property damaged in a riot. He
said: "The Riot Damages Act is an important piece of legislation protecting the
public and businesses in the event of a large-scale riot but, at over 100 years
old, it is well overdue for reform.

"During my review I met a wide range of people affected by the riots and it was
clear that, while central and local government did their best, they were
hampered by a lack of preparedness both for the riots themselves and for the
demands for compensation they generated." Some of the money paid by private
insurers is included in the cost to taxpayers because the Act allows insurers to
be compensated for riot claims. Mr Kinghan said that compensation to insurers
should continue but should be capped, not applying to businesses with an annual
turnover of more than £2 million.

The report also recommends capping compensation to businesses and householders
who are uninsured, but said it should be extended to motor vehicles, which did
not exist when the Act was passed.

Mr Kinghan's report said that by April insurers had paid £131.6 million to
claimants.

Otto Thorensen, director-general of the Association of British Insurers, said:
"The recommendation that insurers should continue to be able to recover from the
State certain riot payments made to customers is vital if riot cover is to be
affordable and available."

He added: "However, we are concerned that the review recommends that insurer
recoveries from the State should be restricted to businesses that turn over less
than £2 million a year. This could be a disincentive for some larger firms to
locate in some areas."

The Home Office is planning to hold a public consultation on the proposals next
year.

Damian Green, the Minister for Policing, said that the riots had caused enormous
distress to a great many people and businesses. "The measures in the Riot
Damages Act provide a safety net but they have to be efficient and provide value
for money for the taxpayer," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman was forced to jump from a burning building in Croydon as
rioters set fire to shops
www.WENN.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Riots cost taxpayer at least £133m, MPs told

BYLINE: Sandra Lavilleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 575 words

ABSTRACT

Bill for policing and compensation for businesses hit by violence emerges as
home affairs select committee investigates riots

FULL TEXT

The riots in England will cost the taxpayer more than £133m in policing and
compensation for businesses hit by the violence, the home affairs select
committee has been told.

In evidence from Boris Johnson, the London mayor, the acting Metropolitan police
commissioner, Tim Godwin, and Sir Hugh Orde, the chairman of the Association of
Chief Police Officers, the scale and cost of the August rioting has begun to
emerge.

To date 100 individuals have applied for compensation to the Metropolitan Police
Authority under the Riot Damages Act, totalling £9.3m in claims, a figure that
is likely to increase.

In addition, the policing costs for the Metropolitan force for mutual aid,
overtime and staffing are £74m for the four days of disorder, Godwin told the
committee, which was taking its first evidence session on the English riots.

Orde in his evidence said the final amount for police forces across the country
had not yet been finalised but so far the estimated cost of the riots for forces
outside London was £50m - which was spent on mutual aid to provide support as
the disorder spread on an unprecedented scale.

Triggered by the fatal shooting by police of Mark Duggan in Tottenham, north
London, the riots are now the subject of several inquiries, including internal
assessments at the Met. The costs include the bill for the ongoing police
investigation, which has resulted in nearly 2,000 arrests.

Assistant commissioner Lynne Owens told the committee that 500 officers were
working on the inquiry and there was still 20,000 hours of CCTV footage to view.

The committee was told that Owens is evaluating the local management response to
the events in the immediate aftermath of Duggan's death, particularly the events
outside the police station on Saturday night when the dead man's family gathered
in the hope of speaking to a senior officer. They had already been left to find
out about his death from a national news report rather than hearing of it from
the police.

Godwin told the committee the Met had apologised to the family for the failure
to inform them about Duggan's death, and the Owens review would investigate
these and other issues further.

But Godwin said there were issues about the relationship between the
Metropolitan police and the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) that
needed to be examined - referring to an apparent blurring of roles as to who has
the duty to inform a family in a police fatal shooting.

But in written evidence to the committee, the IPCC said it was "never the
responsibility of the IPCC" to inform the next of kin of a death of a relation.

Deborah Glass, deputy commissioner for the IPCC, told the committee the watchdog
was considering a separate investigation into why the Duggan family only heard
about the death of their son when the news was broadcast on national television.
But a decision on that had yet to be finalised.

Glass was pressed as to whether her investigators had interviewed the CO19
officers involved in the fatal shooting. After refusing to give a clear answer
she was reprimanded by the chairman, Keith Vaz. Glass would only say that her
investigators now had "accounts" from the officers about the events of the
shooting.

She told the committee it would take four to six months before the IPCC inquiry
into the death was completed.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

England's riotous values

BYLINE: BY PHILLIP BLOND

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: LONDON

ABSTRACT

The August riots in England are emblematic of the country's eroded values.

FULL TEXT

The riots that swept England in early August shocked the country, mainly because
there seemed to be no guiding motive or burning injustice. In fact, these riots
represent a new sociological phenomenon - one that reflects the profound social,
cultural and economic shifts in Britain over the past 30 years.

The August riots were new in that gangs of predominately young unemployed men
were able, using new media, to launch a series of semi-organized disturbances
for the purpose not of protest, but of criminal gain.

But why? Because in a savage manner, they were acting out the values that
increasingly seem to govern and embody Britain: Ruthless self-interest coupled
to a rootless consumer nihilism.

That's hardly a surprise: The governing orthodoxy for the last 30 years has been
that the few on top rule the many at the bottom by persuading them that the
values of the wealthy are the best for the entire country. In modern Britain,
the bigger the business, the more effective it is at avoiding tax. If that's the
rule for the rich, logic dictates it will set the values for the poor.

British politicians are ill-placed to condemn such actions since they themselves
were hugely compromised in the scandal over the expenses claimed by members of
Parliament - often for items very much like those prized by the looters.
Moreover, the British political class looks highly susceptible to vested and
monopoly interests. News International, for example, has been shown to have
manipulated both of the main political parties for insider advantage.

Thus the top and bottom of British society seem to exhibit quite similar values
- both play the system, and both see no reason why they should not. They
represent the final triumph of a value system that does not recognize any
objective values at all.

On the left, libertarianism used state welfare to give autonomy to people it
considered too dependent on each other and too defined by outmoded codes and
values. In so doing, it rendered superfluous all the bottom-up organization and
structures of British working- class life, making people and communities
dependent on state welfare rather than on each other.

This has been most invidious in the case of the family. Cultural libertarians on
the left have followed Engels in deeming marriage to be nothing more than the
bourgeois subjugation of women. Since 1997, for example, a single mother of two
has seen her benefits increase by 85 percent. At the same time, the tax burden
placed on a one-earner family (two parents + two children) on an average wage is
39 percent higher in Britain than that in other O.E.C.D. countries.

The result is that children in Britain are now more than three times as likely
to live in one-parent households than they were in 1972; a third to a half of
all British children will at some point live in a one-parent family; and a third
of all British children at any one time are living with just one parent. In
1971, less than 10 percent of all births in England and Wales were outside
marriage; in 2008, 45 percent of all births were.

This matters because unmarried parents have great trouble staying together. By
the time a child is five, 43 percent of unmarried parents have broken up, versus
8 percent for married couples.

Over 7 million Britons now live alone, compared to three million in 1971,
creating widespread social anonymity and fragmentation. Since 70 percent of
young offenders come from one-parent families and a third of all prisoners come
from families so dysfunctional they were taken into care by the state, family
structure is not something the state can afford to ignore.

The erosion of family structures has been accompanied by a similar libertarian
assault from the economic right. Under the rhetoric of free markets delivering
mass prosperity, a rentier state has developed that has concentrated wealth and
stripped millions of ordinary Britons of their capital, denying them a path to
assets, ownership and trade.

The bottom 50 percent of the British population had 12 percent of liquid wealth,
excluding property, in 1976. By 2003, that share had fallen to 1 percent,
shutting the path to prosperity for those at the bottom. An O.E.C.D. survey in
2010 found that Britain has the highest correlation between parental income and
outcomes for children, and therefore the lowest rate of social mobility in the
developed world.

From the perspective of those who rioted, perhaps the most evident indication of
how the game has moved against them is migration. Thirty years ago unskilled
working-class kids could at least get jobs in shops or factories. Today these
youths have lost out to new migrants - an astounding 99.9 percent of the rise of
employment (not jobs) in Labour years is accounted for by foreign-born workers.

In conclusion, the rioters are shamefully emblematic of modern Britain. Their
values have striking parallels with Britain's current elite - not least because
the creation of a morally denuded and economically marooned class at the bottom
of society is the outcome of an elite that has embraced self-serving economics
and the value system that endorses it: libertarianism under the guise of
liberalism.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is director of the think tank ResPublica and the author of ''Red Tory:
How Left and Right have Broken Britain and How we can Fix It.''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Springvale Dandenong Leader (Australia)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                  OSV Edition

Five charged over riots at Noble Park

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 147  words


POLICE have charged five teenagers over the riot at Noble Park last Saturday
morning and expect to charge others.

The riot occurred at the intersection of Princes Highway and Elonera Rd. Police
estimate it involved about 1000 people. Extensive damage was caused to a
Blockbuster Video store, a Retravision outlet and pizza shop. Police have
branded the crowd behaviour ''disgraceful, criminal and idiotic.''

Youths from Dandenong North aged 15 and 16 and a Noble Park boy, 17, have been
charged with riot, affray, theft, burglary and criminal damage.

A Noble Park man, 19 has been charged with riot, affray, burglary and theft, and
an Endeavour Hills man, 19, has been charged with riot, burglary and theft.

Police also arrested and interviewed six other men who have been released
pending summons. They were from Dandenong, Springvale South, Rowville,
Edithvale, Pakenham, and Berwick.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OSV


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                August 18, 2005

Lads' mag pioneer wades into riots for Bravo

LENGTH: 352 words



HIGHLIGHT: 8am: Lads' mag pioneer James Brown is to front a documentary series
about riots for cable and satellite entertainment channel Bravo. By Chris
Tryhorn.


Lads' mag pioneer James Brown is to front a documentary series about riots for
cable and satellite entertainment channel Bravo.

Brown, the original editor of men's magazine Loaded and later the editor of the
now-defunct Jack magazine, will present the 10-part series next year.

The programme, Riots, will look at civil disturbances from a range of angles,
from racially motivated violence fuelled by the BNP to "recreational"
rites-of-passage riots among youths in Northern Ireland.

Riots will be based on archive footage, as well as featuring interviews with
participants and exclusive footage of violence at last month's anti-G8 rallies
in Edinburgh.

Bravo is hoping the programme, made by independent producer Vashca, will bolster
its appeal as a male-focused channel targeting 16- to 45-year-olds.

Another key show in its 2006 lineup is Man's Work, in which Ashley Hames, who is
billed as "Bravo's Louis Theroux", samples the world's toughest jobs, including
crab fishing in Alaska, rat-catching in Bombay and opal mining in the Australian
outback.

The director of programmes at Bravo, Jonathan Webb, said factual programming was
one of three strands he was keen to develop, along with football and humour.

The Flextech-owned channel recently announced it had become the new home for
Italian football show Gazzetta Football Italia, which was shown on Channel 4 in
the 90s.

Bravo is also showing one live match and one recorded match a week from the
Italian premiership, Serie A, as well as a highlights show.

As for humour, Mr Webb said that an announcement would follow in the near
future.

"The channel is male-focused, but it's not about being a ghetto. Women should be
interested too. It's intelligent TV and your partner might be interested in
sharing it," he added.

Current programming on Bravo includes US drama Alias, classic entertainment such
as The Dukes of Hazzard and KnightRider and homegrown programming such as Street
Crime UK.

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved


                              249 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Facts on File World News Digest

                                October 27, 2005

Great Britain;
Man Killed in Birmingham Race Riots

SECTION: Pg. 761D2

LENGTH: 247 words


Race riots pitting blacks against Pakistanis October 22 erupted in the city of
Birmingham in central England. A black man, Isiah Young-Sam, 23, was stabbed to
death. Hundreds of police clashed with the rioters, and one officer was shot in
the leg. Rioters smashed shop windows and torched automobiles. Another man,
Aaron James, 18, was shot dead the next day in nearby Newtown, but police said
they had not yet established whether the shooting was connected to the riots.
[See 2001 Great Britain: Race Riots Erupt in Bradford; Other Developments; 1985
Great Britain: Birmingham Riots Erupt]

Police October 24 said Young-Sam had not been involved in the riots but had been
walking home from the movies with his brother and two friends when a group of at
least 10 men attacked them.

The riots took place in the Lozells district of Birmingham, which had also been
hit by the Handsworth riots in 1985. The area had large communities of people of
Caribbean and Pakistani origin. Unemployment and poverty were widespread and
gang violence was on the rise in both minority communities.

The riots began after black media outlets circulated a rumor that a group of
Pakistani men had gang-raped a 14-year-old black girl after she was caught
shoplifting in a Pakistani-owned store. Police reportedly had found no evidence
that any such incident had occurred. But blacks had staged a demonstration
outside the store and other protests during the week between the alleged rape
and the riots.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Facts on File, Inc.


                              262 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                  July 1, 2016

1984 anti-Sikh riot victims still wait for compensation

BYLINE: FPJ Bureau

LENGTH: 293  words


Govt highly apathetic to out plight, claims Jabalpur unit of umbrella body of
victims

BHOPAL: The Welfare Committee for 1984 Anti-Sikh Riots Victims, MP, has accused
the Bharatiya Janata Party led state government of wilfully ignoring victims of
the 1984 riots who are still awaiting compensation after 32 years of the
infamous riots.

Harjeet Kaur Gumara, joint secretary of the committee, Jabalpur, while
interacting with media, said the victims were distributed compensation in riot
-torn Coimbatore in 1989-90. And even 10 times more compensation was given to
them. But Jabalpur riot hit victims are still awaiting adequate compensation
after 32 years. She was speaking to media in Bhopal on the issue on Thursday.

The committee claimed that eight Sikhs died in 1984 riots while 804 suffered
major damage to properties in Jabalpur, while a total number of 76 persons died
and another 2000 to 2500 faced property damage in MP.

Gumara said that post riots two PILs were field in the HC over non-distribution
of compensation to the victims. "In 2006, the HC directed the state government
for payment of additional compensation to the victims but ex-gratia amount was
only disbursed in death cases and property damage cases were set aside," she
alleged. Gumara claimed that district administration in Jabalpur had certified
cases of 414 victims but only three victims received partial compensation till
date.

"Besides Bhopal and Indore, 1984 victims across the state were grossly ignored
for compensation alike," Amarjeet Singh, president, Jabalpur unit of MP Sikh
Minority Welfare Committee said.

Lajjashankar Herdenia, convener, Rashtriya Secular Manch alleged that not only
Sikhs, the state government ignores plight of each and every minority and weaker
section.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            November 14, 2016 Monday
                             Print & First Editions

Youths riot and officer hurt in correction centres

BYLINE: Deborah Gough, Goya Dmytryshchak

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 324 words


The latest riot at Melbourne's youth detention centre ended with an estimated $2
million in damage while, at the same time, an inmate attacked four prison
officers at another prison, causing a serious neck injury.

About 20 inmates at the Youth Justice Centre were left without beds on Saturday
night after their cells were trashed in another riot at the Parkville facility.

Inmates destroyed security cameras, computers, and ripped the ceiling and walls
apart during the riot, a prison source said. It's believed the sprinkler system
was also damaged.

Computers were thrown through windows before the group climbed on the roof and
demanded junk food and a phone, the source said.

No youth justice officers or inmates were injured during the incident. The riot
ended only after police called in the dog squad.

The disturbance is believed to have been started by the same youth who triggered
another riot on Thursday at the centre.

State government minister Richard Wynne condemned the rioting.

"The government is obviously really concerned about the events that occurred at
the Youth Justice Centre last night, and, in fact, we have just put on 41 staff
to ensure that the centre remains secure," Mr Wynne said.

Department of Health and Human Services spokesman Mike Griffin said the
Parkville incident was resolved on Saturday night and a police investigation was
continuing.

"The behaviour of these clients on Saturday was unacceptable and staff shouldn't
have to tolerate it."

Also on Saturday night, four Port Phillip Prison officers were assaulted during
a cell search, with one suffering a suspected serious neck injury.

Paramedics were called to the Truganina prison at 7.10pm and took the officer,
aged in his 30s, to hospital. He was in a stable condition.

Community and Public Sector Union spokesman Julian Kennelly said the inmate was
believed to be using drugs. "If he has taken down four officers, we would
suspect it was ice or something similar."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Riots report a cover-up, order CBI probe: BJP

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 217 words


BJP on Monday demanded a CBI probe into the Muzaffarnagar riots even as it
termed the one-man judicial commission's report an attempt to cover up the role
of the Samajwadi Party government for the communal conflagra tion in the state
in 2013.

The party said the SP go vernment was the "main culprit" in the riots that were
"triggered" by its leaders for its "vote bank politics".

"The SP government is responsible for the riots. It is the main accused. Its
vote bank politics fuelled the riots. If it had taken effective action against
the accused involved in killing of two youths, violence would not have erupted,"
BJP secretary Shrikant Sharma said. The Akhilesh Yadav government should order a
CBI probe into the riots, he said.

Sharma alleged that Azam Khan, a minister in the UP go vernment, used his
influence to secure the release of the people responsible for the killing of two
youths which added to the unrest and violence.

He said the state government had learnt no lessons from the riots as communal
incidents continue to occur across the state. "People will teach the government
a lesson during elections," Sharma said. UP is to go to polls next year.

The one-man judicial commission of inquiry concluded that intelligence failure
and laxity of police led to the violence which left 62 people dead.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

For the Record

BYLINE: Steve LeMaster, The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 976 words


Jan. 17--Marriage Licenses

Amber Faye Crace, 21, of Prestonsburg, to Johnnie Douglas Holbrook, 30, of
David.

Mickey Reynolds, 53, of Dwale, to James Francis Recktenwald, 48, of Dwale.

Rhonda Slone, 37, of Martin, to Gary Hicks, 46, of Martin.

Brittany N. Robinson, 23, of Prestonsburg, to Alex L. Wagers, 24, of
Prestonsburg.

Jessica Blake Watson, 17, of Dana, to Willie Joe Ousley, 18, of Harold.

Civil Suits Filed

Beatrice Tackett vs. Venetia Cooper; complaint.

Community Trust Bank vs. Katie Jo Gray; complaint.

Community Trust Bank vs. Jodi K. Lanning; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Stacey Wolfe; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Ernie Lee Collins; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Tonia Michelle Cox; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Lana Chaffins; complaint.

Charges Filed

Dwayne Earl Bishop, 51, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Timothy Marsillett, 42, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Michael Nolan Slone, 25, Wayland; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jesse Keathley, 24, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jonathan Endicott, age not listed, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jarred Harvey, 30, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jeremy Bryant, 22, Wheelwright; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

James William Miller, 24, of Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jimmy Dewayne Branham, 32, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty
to commit criminal mischief.

Phillip Morgan Joseph, 34, of Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jonathan C. Crider, 34, Auxier; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Benjamin Ruben Davis, 27, address not listed; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Estill Newsome Jr., 33, McDowell; complicity to commit theft by unlawful taking.

Edward Clay, 25, Prestonsburg .; criminal trespassing.

Virgil R. Hale, 51, Pierceton, Ind.; public intoxication, use or possession of
drug paraphrenalia, possession of a controlled substance.

Inspections

McDowell Elementary, McDowell, regular inspection. Violations noted: food not
protected during storage, food not protected during preparation, plumbing not
maintained in good repair, floors not clean. Score: 96.

Allen Central High, Eastern, regular inspection. Violations noted: food contact
surfaces and/or utensils are not durable, corrosion resistant or non-absorbent,
food contact surfaces are not resistant to pitting, chipping, crazing, etc.,
warewashing machine not properly operated, outside garbage or refuse storage
area not constructed properly, garbage and refuse containers not covered as
required. Score: 95.

Betsy Layne Elementary School, Betsy Layne, regular inspection. Violations
noted: garbage and refuse containers not covered as required, garbage and refuse
containers dirty, floors not clean, floors not maintained/constructed and/or
installed properly.

Opportunities Unlimited School, Martin, regular inspection. Violations noted:
restroom walls, countertops in need of repair, floors and walls in need of
repair in gym restrooms, lighting not adequate in the girls restroom, main
building, ceiling found with leak in gym, floors and walls also in need of
repair. Score: 90.

Property Transfers

Dorenda Criss Burke to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

John Bryan Burke to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ, Inc.,
property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Louanna Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Randall Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Wanda Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Betty Lou Hall Hamilton to James Michael Hamilton and Terry Hamilton, property
located at Hatcher Addition to Harold.

James A. Hamilton to James Michael Hamilton and Terry Hamilton, property located
at Hatcher Addition to Harold.

J.W. Kinzer Foundation, Inc. to the Wesley Christian School, property not
listed.

Deborah Burke Johnson to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Earl Johnson to Larry Flannery and Trena Flannery, property located and J.M. and
John Hall addition to Bevinsville.

Willis Shelley Johnson to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Opal Kinney to Connie Hinkle, property not listed.

Donna Lancaster to Brittany Johnson and Jeremy Johnson, property not listed.

Donna Lancaster to Lowell Mitchell and Tex Mitchell, property located at Big Mud
Creek at Grethel.

Denise Burke Laskowski to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Michael Roberts Laskowski to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus
Christ, Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Kim Little to Arnold Johnson and Joan Johnson, property not listed.

Lee M. Little to Larry J. Flannery, property located at Wheelwright.

Robin Little to Arnold Johnson and Joan Johnson, property not listed.

Middle Creek National Battlefield Foundation, Inc. to Commonwealth of Kentucky
Department of Highways Transportation Cabinet, property not listed.

To see more of The Floyd County Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.floydcountytimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Floyd County Times,
Prestonburg, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110117-QO-For-the-Record-0117-20110117

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


                                 Copyright 2011


                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                 August 8, 2012

CROYDON RIOTS: Insurers blame police for slow payouts

BYLINE: Nick Hitchens

SECTION: NEWS CROYDON (NEWS)

LENGTH: 259  words


The insurance industry is blaming out dated legislation and police authorities
for delays in insurance payout to businesses following the riots.

Figures released by the Association of British Insurers on the anniversary of
the riots show seven per cent of small businesses which made claims in the
aftermath have yet to receive any pay out.

Insurers were inundated with 3000 riots claims, with a total of £200m expected
to be paid out.

Pay out delays or failures have been blamed on the Riot Damages Act, which
requires insurers to go through police authorities to secure the money for those
not adequately covered by their policies.

Aidan Kerr, head of property at the Association of British Insurers said: "The
Riot Damages Act is crucial in providing financial compensation to victims of
riots who do not have property insurance or are underinsured but the current
lack of a standard approach has caused unacceptable delays and confusion.

"The ABI is calling for urgent reform to simplify and streamline the Act so that
it delivers for those who need it most." Rob Atkin, acting borough commander at
Croydon said: "The MPS has been working hard to process claims as quickly as
possible.

"On August 2 a letter was sent to all victims whose claims have not been
concluded to help assist people to understand the process and what evidence they
need to provide. The letter has also been sent to all the insurance companies
and the legal representatives involved.

"If you have sent in a claim and it has not been concluded please check our
website and contact us."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Riot Fest offers ticket refunds after venue change

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


May 22--A day after announcing a venue change, Riot Fest organizers sent an
email on Thursday to people who purchased early bird tickets, notifying them
that the tickets will be honored at its new home in Chicago's Douglas Park and
offering a full refund until Monday if they no longer want to go to the fest,
set for Sept. 11-13.

"While we are saddened to move the festival away from Humboldt Park, we are very
excited about the new prospects that Douglas Park has to offer including
convenient transportation options and its scenic park layout," Riot Fest wrote
in the email.

Now, concertgoers are eager to hear news of the lineup, which Riot Fest said
will be released next week. Riot Fest was waiting to announce the venue before
selling general tickets. The concert site said the sale of general tickets is
coming soon.

Riot Fest announced Wednesday that it was moving the show to Douglas Park in
North Lawndale about six miles southwest of downtown.

The move comes after after some residents and Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) said
they didn't want Riot Fest to return, blaming the festival for disrupting park
activities and causing damage to the park that took months to repair.

Others had said they wanted the three-day fest to return to the Northwest Side
park, which shares a name with the neighborhood.

After the announced move, Mayor Rahm Emanuel warned Riot Fest organizers to make
sure they clean up their act -- or else.

"I don't think it's in their best interest to have a second park say we don't
want you in Chicago. So they've been put on notice to be a better citizen in
holding this festival because if you go 0 for 2 we don't have a three strike
rule in the city of Chicago," he said.

This year, RedEye is a media partner of Riot Fest ranked the best American
festival by USA Today.

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150522-1RC-Riot-Fest-offers-ticket-refunds-after-venue-change-20150522

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                              268 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2005 Monday

North Korea says French riots prove capitalist societies "decaying internally"

LENGTH: 875 words


Text of report by North Korean newspaper Nodong Sinmun on 14 November

The great leader Comrade Kim Jong-il [preceding name in bold as published] has
pointed out the following: "The developed capitalist countries may seem
prosperous on the surface but they are decaying internally because of
contradictions which are worsening with each passing day." [preceding quote in
bold as published]

According to news reports, there was an outbreak of a large riot in France
recently, which is attracting the attention of world opinion as it is creating
social chaos and raising a serious political problem. The riot stemmed from the
death of two juveniles from electric shock, which took place on the night of 27
October in an area in the northeastern suburb of Paris. The two boys, a
15-year-old and a 17-year-old, are said to have died miserably as they made
contact with electricity in a substation into which they jumped to elude police.

The two juveniles' electrocution death incident unexpectedly aroused great anger
among young people living in this city. The young people are rioting every
night, committing arsonous and plunderous acts everywhere. In some places,
bullets were reportedly fired at police forces, and police stations were
reportedly destroyed.

Police forces, equipped with shields, are shooting rubber bullets and tear gas
in an attempt to quell the riot. However, the flame of riot shows no sign of
stopping and is spreading to not only the central part of Paris and its
outskirts but also the entire country. According to news reports, the riot had
expanded to more than 20 cities as of 7 November.

According to foreign new reports, up until 7 [November], about 5,000 means of
transportation had been burned or destroyed, and 1,200 rioters had been
arrested. A large number of people were killed or injured. Many commercial
buildings were destroyed or burned. This riot in France is a large-scale riot
that has taken place for the first time since the 1968 riot by university
students, according to foreign news reports. The prevailing view among the
public is that the riot spreading in France is an explosion of social
contradictions.

First of all, social inequality is viewed as a cause of this riot. The area
where the riot first broke out is known to have much worse unemployment and
poverty than other areas. In this area, a large number of immigrants from North
Africa and their children are residing. An Asian person living in France spoke
of this riot as an explosion of emotions among the young people of various
strata who cultivated an antipathy towards authority after having long been
discriminated in employment. The next analysis is that the racial and religious
contradictions served as a cause of the riot's outbreak and spread.

Most of the immigrants and their children are said to believe in Islam. A
foreigner said that the French Government had generated a great deal of
contradictions by enforcing the "assimilation" policy towards them. Police
forces reportedly fired tear gas at an Islamic mosque in the process of putting
down the riot, and this reportedly infuriated many immigrants. In short, it was
like fanning the flame.

Another opinion suggests that the government's attitude when dealing with the
riot has caused the spread of the riot. In the early stage of the riot's
outbreak, the French interior minister, who was in charge of maintaining public
order, was reported to affront the young people who took part in the riot by
referring to them as "social scum". This further escalated the antipathy towards
the government among the young people.

According to a foreign journalist who interviewed some of the rioters, they
claimed that the French government had racial prejudice and treated them as
second-tier citizens. This shows that the riot was an explosion of social
contradictions. The French government declared a state of emergency on 8
[November] to put down the riot. The French premier said that his country was
"facing a decisive phase".

The premier and the interior minister of France postponed or cancelled their
previously arranged foreign visits. The French premier addressed the parliament
about the gravity of the situation and issues regarding the measures to bring it
under control, and he also reportedly discussed the incident with the young
people in the riot area.

One of France's opposition parties called for the interior minister's
resignation on the grounds that his policy, which was a revival of ultra
right-wing ideology [according to its claim], had created all the tense
situations and caused the results like the riot, and also argued that the French
government acknowledge its blunder and decisively change its policy on social
safety.

The after-effects of the riot that broke out in France are now spreading to
Germany, Belgium, and many other countries and cities of Europe. A string of
arson cases were reported in these cities. [We should] wait and see how the riot
in France will unfold from now on. But one thing that is clear is that in
capitalist societies fraught with an assortment of contradictions such as social
inequality and racial discrimination, an outbreak of incidents like the riot in
France is inevitable.

Source: Nodong Sinmun, Pyongyang, in Korean 14 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Rajnath promises justice for 1984 riot victims

LENGTH: 295  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 26 -- Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide",
Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday several persons who had a
"role" in the carnage are yet to be punished.


 "In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," he said after distributing cheques of enhanced
compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.
 "I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that the government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," he said.
 Rajnath distributed cheques of [#x20b9]5 lakh each to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.
 According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459
people will soon be given after verification.
 Rajnath also said he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to look
into the grievances of 1984 riot victims.
 He also asked the Chief Ministers of all States to take steps for immediate
disbursement of enhanced compensation to the kin of 1984 riot victims.
 Of the total 3,325 victims of anti-Sikh riots, 2,733 belonged to Delhi. Others
belonged to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, among others.
 The AAP said the compensation cheques are like "giving lollipop" before the
election.
 Party's Delhi convenor Ashutosh said instead of giving the cheques to just 17
families, Rajnath should have come out with a plan of disbursing the
compensation money to remaining victims. "Now that Delhi elections are round the
corner, the BJP has decided to hand over the compensation package to just 17
families." he pointed out.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            December 7, 2003 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

UK arms human rights abusers;
Missile, helicopter sales approved

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR, LONDON

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 630 words


THE British Government is selling arms and security equipment to countries whose
human rights records it has strongly criticised, lists of weapons cleared for
export and obtained by the London-based The Guardian newspaper reveal.

The countries include Indonesia , where the UK Foreign Office (FO) has reported
allegations of extrajudicial killings; Nepal , where it has reported summary
executions; and Saudi Arabia , where torture is just one abuse of basic human
rights attacked by the FO.

Licences have been approved this year for the export to Saudi Arabia of
"security and paramilitary goods", hitherto unpublished figures show.

The list of items under this category is: "Acoustic devices . . . suitable for
riot control purposes, anti-riot shields . . . leg irons, gang chains, electric
shock belts, shackles . . . individual cuffs . . . portable anti-riot devices .
. . water cannon . . . riot control vehicles . . . portable devices for riot
control or self-protection by the administration of an electric shock".

The UK Government's arms export guidelines say that licences will be refused if
there is a "clear risk [they] might be used for internal repression".

The exports to Saudi Arabia, which also include a wide range of military
hardware and weapons systems, were cleared despite sharp criticism of the
country in the FO's latest annual human rights report, published earlier this
year.

"We continue to have deep concerns about Saudi Arabia's failure to implement
basic human rights norms," it said, referring explicitly to capital and corporal
punishment and restrictions on freedom of movement, expression, assembly and
worship," it said.

It added: "We believe that between January and December 2002, the Saudi
authorities executed about 46 people, one of the highest figures for any country
in the world."

The Government also approved export licences for categories of arms including
machine guns, rockets and missiles to Indonesia.

Indonesian forces are engaged in fierce fighting against pro-independence rebels
in Aceh , where British equipment is being used despite assurances from the
Government it would not be used for offensive or counter-insurgency measures.

After foreign observers were refused access to Aceh, the UK Government told
members of the British parliament last month that it "remained concerned about
the situation in Aceh".

British-built Saracen armoured vehicles were being used by Indonesian forces in
Aceh , Tapol , the Indonesia human rights campaign group, and the Campaign
Against Arms Trade said this week.

Next week human rights activists in Indonesia are planning to challenge the
legality of British arms exports to the country.

There have already been reports of Hawk jets and Scorpion tanks deployed in Aceh
.

The FO said in its report that while the professionalism of the Indonesian
security forces had improved, "serious problems remain, with allegations of
extrajudicial killings, disappearances, arbitrary detention, rape, torture and
mistreatment of prisoners".

The Government has also approved big increases in the sale of arms to Nepal ,
where security forces are fighting Maoist guerrillas. Last year Britain provided
Nepal with two military helicopters from its "conflict prevention" fund.

Yet the FO accuses the Nepalese army and Maoists of "widespread human rights
abuses". Its annual report said: "The security forces were responsible for
extensive and systematic illegal detentions, torture and summary executions".

The Government's arms export criteria state it "will not issue licences which
would provoke or prolong armed conflicts".

The list of export licences was provided by Nigel Griffiths , the British Trade
Minister , in response to questions from Menzies Campbell , the Liberal Democrat
party's foreign affairs spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                      January 24, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Minister of State for Home Affairs R P N Singh replies to a query on
'Compensation to Riot Victims'

LENGTH: 205  words


Minister of State for Home Affairs R P N Singh replies to a query on
'Compensation to Riot Victims' raised by SK Saidul Haque on Dec. 17, 2013.



Question (Starred; # 1992):

(a) Whether the Government has any proposal to give compensation to the victims
of Gujarat riots on the pattern of compensation given to the victims of 1984
riots; and

(b) If so, the details thereof?

Answer

(a) To (b): In the year 2007, the Government of India formulated and announced
package of compensation to the victims of Gujarat riots of 2002. The package was
formulated after duly taking into account the pattern of package declared for
1984 riots victims.

So far an amount of Rs. 429.46 crore has been released to the Gujarat Government
for disbursement to eligible the victims/beneficiaries of Gujarat riots. The
package, inter-alia, provides for-

(i) An ex-gratia assistance of Rs. 3.5 lakh in addition to the assistance
already given by the State Government in case of death.

(ii) An ex-gratia assistance of Rs. 1.25 lakh minus the assistance given by the
State Government for injury,

(iii) An ex-gratia of 10 times the amount given by State Government less amount
already paid for damage of residential property and uninsured
commercial/industrial property.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Work explores the origins of a riot

SECTION: WEST COUNTRY LIFE;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 172 words


HOW TO START A RIOT Bike Shed Theatre, Exeter, June 19; Barnstaple Fringe
Theatre Festival, June 22,23 A new Exeter-based company, Worklight Theatre, will
perform their devised show How To Start A Riot in the Westcountry next week in
advance of this summer's Edinburgh Festival.

Three performers - Callum Elliott-Archer, pictured, Michael Woodman and Joe
Sellman-Leava - have been working closely with social psychologist Professor
Alex Haslam and crowd psychologist Dr Clifford Stott to explore popular
misconceptions of what exactly a riot is. If the actions are mindless, they ask,
what is in the mind? Work on the project started in September 2011, soon after
the UK riots. There were no riots in Exeter, but the company thinks it is
important to explore the issue and understand it, rather than rely on the
interpretation of events from the mass media and politicians. The three
performers use text, torchlight and physical theatre to unpick the presumed
causes of civil unrest and use historical and personal accounts in their work.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday

Reading the Riots: The next phase

BYLINE: Tim Newburn, Paul Lewis and Fiona Bawdon

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 222 words


The interviews with 270 people involved in the riots have formed the core of the
first phase of Reading the Riots, the Guardian's collaborative study with the
London School of Economics. The second part will look at the experiences of
communities affected by the riots, police officers and the criminal justice
system.

Next month we will host a series of grassroots meetings in riot-affected cities
across England. The meetings will take the form of open debates, organised in
partnership with local community groups and radio stations.

Employing the same methodology used with rioters - confidential interviews - we
hope to interview police officers of all ranks, not least those who risked their
lives on the frontline.

The sentencing response has proved controversial. The second phase of Reading
the Riots will therefore seek to better understand how the courts coped in the
days, weeks and months after the riots, using interviews with judges and
magistrates, as well as court staff, prosecutors and defence lawyers.

Next week, the Guardian and LSE will host a major conference to discuss the
first phase research findings. Speakers include Theresa May, the home secretary,
Ed Miliband, the leader of the opposition, and Bernard Hogan-Howe, the
Metropolitan police commissioner.

To contact the team, email readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

India's Gujarat riots record 'destroyed'

BYLINE:  The Nation Monitoring

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 143

LENGTH: 272  words


Official records relating to the 2002 riots in India's Gujarat state were
destroyed in line with regulations, the government tells a panel probing the
riots, reported BBC on Thursday.

Documents with records of telephone calls and the movements of officials during
the riots were destroyed in 2007, five years after their origin.  Officials say
this is standard practice and in line with civil service rules.

More than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died in the riots. The violence erupted
after 60 Hindus died in a train fire. The cause of the blaze was never clearly
established. Hindu groups allege the fire was started by Muslim protesters, but
an earlier inquiry said the blaze was an accident.

The Supreme Court set up a panel to investigate the riots in 2008, after
allegations that the Gujarat government was doing little to bring those
responsible to justice.

Government lawyer SB Vakil told the Nanavati panel probing the riots that some
records relating to the riots had been destroyed according to the rules. "As per
general government rules, the telephone call records, vehicle logbook and the
officers' movement diary are destroyed after a certain period," Vakil was quoted
as saying by the Press Trust of India news agency.

In April a senior police officer alleged in a sworn statement to India's Supreme
Court that Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi deliberately allowed anti-Muslim
riots in the state.

Modi has always denied any wrongdoing. The Gujarat government has responded to
the allegations by saying they have already testified before a special panel
investigating the riots and will wait for the court's verdict.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday

Gardai sent out frantic SOS calls as riot erupted

BYLINE: JOHN BRESLIN

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 550 words


GARDA chiefs made a series of frantic SOS calls for riot reinforcements but not
until after the orgy of violence had begun.

The first calls for backup officers trained in handling riot situations came 15
minutes after the stone-throwing started and were made to stations as far away
as counties Laois and Offaly 50 miles from Dublin.

The calls were logged by some stations after 1pm, many minutes after some 66
riot squad members, who had been on standby close to O'Connell Street, were sent
in to relieve bloodied and battered uniformed officers.

The revelation confirms that the Garda was woefully unprepared for the ferocity
of the attack by republican hoodlums and hundreds of other drink-fuelled young
men who descended on the city centre to take part in the three-hour orgy of
rioting and looting, forcing the cancellation of the Love Ulster march.

Dermot O'Donnell, of the Garda Representative Association (GRA), called for an
independent investigation by the Health and Safety Authority. 'No less would
serve our members,' he said. 'It isn't good enough to have our members out there
if they are under-resourced.' Garda management are likely to resist such moves,
arguing that an internal inquiry would be enough to ensure lessons are learned.

A preliminary report on the day's events is to be discussed by the Cabinet
today.

The report, compiled by Assistant Commissioner Al McHugh, who is in charge of
policing in the capital, was handed to Justice Minister, Michael McDowell, last
night.

It states there was no intelligence to suggest fringe republicans were planning
violent action and that liaison officers who spoke to Republican Sinn FEin were
assured the protest would be peaceful.

Sinn FEin had ordered its members to stay away from the city centre, threatening
them with six months' suspension if they attended the protest.

Special branch detectives were on the streets keeping an eye on fringe
republican political activists and a small number of Continuity IRA members.

They told senior gardaI that most of the members of Republican Sinn FEin, which
organised the protest, were not directly involved.

Sinn FEin is likely to argue that the rioters consisted largely of young people
from inner city estates, many of them fuelled by drink. The numbers were swelled
as those involved texted and phoned friends. Others, including women, children
and non-nationals, used the mayhem to loot stores.

Senior gardaI admit that they were unprepared for the scale of the violence but
claim that they faced an entirely new phenomenon a disorganised, almost
spontaneous outbreak of violence.

This explains, say Garda sources, the lack of intelligence. One said: 'They were
looking in the wrong place. The Special Detective Unit was checking their
republican sources and coming up with nothing. It is possible republican
hardliners helped to fuel the flames in the run-up to the parade and there was
certainly a viciously anti-unionist and sectarian element to the rioting but as
the day progressed it was clear there were also anti- Garda and antiauthority
elements.' The Cabinet will be told that there were not enough gardaI on duty
when the violence broke out.

Mr O'Donnell said: 'Was there a risk assessment to cover this march and if it
did, why did it fail so badly?' We watched wrong terrorists Page 12 END

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GARDA WERE STILL CALLING FOR BACKUP LONG AFTER THE RIOT SQUAD WAS SENT
IN TO RELIEVE INJURED OFFICERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Centre, States Must Avert and Tackle Riots Jointly

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, April 29 -- It is unfortunate that incidents of communal rioting
recorded a 25 per cent increase in 2013, over the previous year. According to a
report of the ministry of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh was the worst affected,
recording 247 incidents, against 118 in 2012. The state also witnessed one of
India's worst riots in Muzaffarnagar. It's a blot on India that communal riots
continue to occur with some measure of regularity. Nearly seven decades after
Independence, the nation cannot blame the British policy divide-and-rule for the
communal rift that is central to riots. Prescience is not required to realise
that the riots are caused by political leaders for short-term gains.

It is against this backdrop that the ministry has warned the states to be
vigilant against agent provocateurs, who create situations congenial for riots.
Almost all riots had their origin in minor incidents of clash, which are then
taken up by politicians, who use their lung power to pit man against man and
community against community. More often than not, such speeches by politicians
are ignored by the administration until raw passions ignited by them reach a
conflagration. By the time the administration acts, many lives would have been
lost and property worth hundreds of crores of rupees destroyed.

Unfortunately, the politicians have mastered the art of using inflammatory
speeches to polarise voters and thereby gain electoral advantage. This can be
countered only if the administration is extra-vigilant and takes summary action
as was done in case of BJP leader Amit Shah and SP's Mohammed Azam Khan. It is
also true that it is the lack of vigilance on the part of the district
administration and its hesitation to take action that lead to riots. While
dealing with a case related to the Muzaffarnagar riots, the Supreme Court has
ruled that the Centre could not absolve itself of the responsibility of riots.
If anything this suggests that the Centre and the state concerned should jointly
control the riots, rather than blame each other.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

HUNDREDS STILL WAITING FOR RIOT PAYMENTS

BYLINE: Jack Lefley, Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 372 words


VICTIMS of last summer's riots today claimed they had been let down after it
emerged that hundreds were still awaiting full compensation.

A total of 656 cases are still to be settled, including many where no funds at
all have been received, and Mayor Boris Johnson came under pressure to speed up
the claims as an inquiry began into the compensation scheme.

Tottenham MP David Lammy, whose constituency was at the centre of the riots,
said it was "totally unacceptable" that so many cases had yet to be settled and
warned Mr Johnson that it would be "staggeringly embarrassing" if victims had
not received payouts by the time of the Olympics.

Rioters and looters caused £370 million of damage after police shot dead Mark
Duggan in Tottenham Hale on August 4 last year.

Seven days later, David Cameron promised in the Commons that all victims would
be compensated under the Riot Damages Act, and Mr Johnson worked with large
companies to set up the High Street Fund to help small businesses affected by
the riots.

But Mr Lammy told the London Assembly: "The Mayor's office should be bending
over backwards to make sure that those affected by the riots get the funds they
deserve quickly.

"It was not their fault. We know there were not enough police on the streets.
People are seeing half, 25 per cent, or no claims at all nine months after the
riots, and that's a travesty."

His attack came as London Assembly members launched an investigation into the
effectiveness of riot recovery funding. A panel including Bob Atkins, chief
finance officer at the Mayor's office for policing and crime (MOPC), were
questioned by the budget and performance committee on the amount, distribution
and impact of funding to businesses and people hit by the riots.

The 656 outstanding cases include 505 where businesses were insured and in most
cases would have received at least an interim payment. There are 145 cases where
the insurer rejected the claim, which then became a claim against the MOPC.
Finally, there are six outstanding cases of uninsured claims.

Lib-Dem Stephen Knight, deputy chair of the committee, said: "To have suffered
the results of the riots is bad enough, but if you're waiting this long for the
compensation it's just not good enough."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

UK riots: Met police pressure media to hand over videos and pictures

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 535 words

ABSTRACT

Scotland Yard wants to obtain footage filmed during the riots that 'could show
crime in action'. By Josh Halliday

FULL TEXT

Newspapers and broadcasters, including Sky News and the Guardian, have come
under pressure from the Metropolitan police to hand over all videos and pictures
related to the London riots earlier this month.

ITN, which produces ITV News and Channel 4 News, the Times and also the BBC are
among the media organisations resisting efforts by Scotland Yard to obtain
footage filmed during the riots that "could show crime in action".

The demands follow David Cameron's call for the media to take "" and immediately
release all material to help police track down and punish suspected rioters and
looters.

Police forces, including West Yorkshire and Greater Manchester police, began to
informally approach media groups a fortnight ago, urging them to voluntarily
disclose all footage - used or unused - of civil unrest during the England riots
.

The Met police has sent follow-up requests to several newspapers and
broadcasters. Scotland Yard said it would obtain a court order to force the
disclosure if the media did not volunteer material.

Each of the media groups said they would fiercely resist the demands to avoid
being seen as an evidence-gathering arm of the police.

However, the media will be forced to hand over unused material if issued with a
production order under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. Under Pace,
the judge is supposed to weigh the interest of the police in obtaining evidence
with the public interest in a free press.

Hundreds of police officers are working through about 40,000 hours of CCTV
footage in stations across the country. In London, Met officers are believed to
be studying more than 20,000 hours of video at 30 viewing facilities.

A spokesman for the Met said: "The police are identifying people through
pictures, CCTV and through the media to ensure that people are brought to
justice. We would ask the media to work with the police to ensure that happens."

Fran Unsworth, the BBC's head of newsgathering, said a fortnight ago that the
corporation would face down requests to hand over footage without a court order.

"It's a matter of principle for us, we don't just hand over our rushes [raw
footage] to the police without them going through a proper process which is via
the courts," she said in . "It doesn't really matter what the nature of the
offences are - if we went down that road of making judgments of the nature of
the offences, that would compromise our editorial standards."

A spokesman for the BBC said on Tuesday: "We have standard processes in place to
deal with requests from the police through our litigation department, regardless
of the subject matter. Any request would need to be dealt with by the courts."

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on  and .

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

My Word: Dori J. Maynard -- When is a riot a riot? Did you see what I saw?

BYLINE: Dori J. Maynard

SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; News; Local; Opinion

LENGTH: 844 words


BY NOW almost everyone knows that a group of demonstrators protesting against
the killing of a young father by a transit officer splintered off and began a
wave of destruction in downtown Oakland.

Mainstream media outlets called it everything from a riot to a violent protest.
Some bloggers referred to it as a civil unrest, rebellion or both a riot and
civil unrest.

Like is true with many issues, our perception of what happened is often shaped
by our fault lines of race, class, gender, generation and geography. Perhaps
because I live in Oakland and spent some years in Detroit, the home of one of
the worst riots of the last century, or maybe because the riots of the 1960s
were the backdrop of my childhood, to me, a riot is a greater event than what
happened in Oakland last week.

To me, a riot is a city coming to a standstill. It's big and it's terrifying,
not only to the people who are there, but to most of the people who live in the
city, if not the rest of the country. It's five days, 43 dead. It's almost 1,200
injured and more than 700 arrested, in the case of the 1967 Detroit riot that
forever changed the face of that city. Or it's six days, 54 dead, almost 2,400
injured, 12,111 arrested and $1 billion in damage in the case of the riot that
swept through Los Angeles after the acquittal of the police officers who were
seen on tape beating Rodney King.

It's something that collectively changes the way we think about that city, the
country, ourselves.

Comparing what happened in Oakland a week ago, nobody was killed in that mayhem,
few if any injuries occurred, and 105 were arrested, with three being formally
charged. Damages are still being tallied, but authorities expect there to be
more than $200,000, although that number could rise some. To be sure the total
will not come anywhere close to cost of the L.A. or Detroit riots.

This is not to minimize what happened. Breaking storefront windows, burning cars
and scaring local merchants are outside the bounds of tolerable behavior. But it
is to say that I think we need to pick our words carefully so we are comparing
oranges to oranges.

As we attempt to find a common language that will bridge the multicultural
communities that make up this country, perhaps we need to be even more precise
in our language. If we deem everything a riot, what words do we use to
distinguish between what happened in Oakland and what happened in Detroit? Don't
we owe it to our audience to find words that will help them understand the scale
of the events we are reporting?

As I discussed this with journalists around the country, it was clear there was
no agreed upon the definition of a riot, or even if a riot should be called a
riot or a rebellion. In one e-mail exchange, a journalist asked "The question
here is: Do we challenge the existing definition of a riot to something more
nuanced to embrace what people have become accustomed to think of as BEING a
riot."

For instance, after the King verdict, many called what happened in Southern
California a "riot." However, coming from another perspective, many also called
it a "rebellion" or an "uprising."

Where you sat in relation to those verdicts has a lot to do with how you view
what happened afterward   meaning, if you're a person of color who has been
harassed, or even beaten, by a cop in your lifetime, you might have viewed what
happened as an uprising. If you're a person who has had innocuous interactions
with the police and justice system, it might be crystal clear to you: "That was
a riot."

Another member of the e-mail exchange shot back, defending the use of the word
riot and resoundingly rejecting the notion of an uprising, arguing that it
doesn't matter if some of the people involved in the violence felt it was
justified.

After the 1992 Los Angeles riot, a columnist asked what do you do when you've
marched and you've sung and you've staged sit-ins and nonviolent protests, and
still you're told you don't count? I don't think he or anybody who uses the
words rebellion, uprising or civil unrest was attempting to justify the massive
destruction that devastated portions of the city. I think he was trying to lay
bare the sense of hopelessness and frustration that can trigger a level of anger
that has sent otherwise sane people into the streets.

It's not a point of view that comes naturally to some segments of our society,
just as it's hard for some segments to have faith in a fair police investigation
into the shooting of an unarmed African-American man.

For journalists, I don't think it's as important for us to agree or disagree
with these opinions. I think it's important that we continually evaluate the
words we use and constantly ask ourselves if we saw the same thing that members
of our community saw.

Dori J. Maynard is the president of the Robert C. Maynard Institute for
Journalism Education, which for 30 years has helped the news media reflect
America's diversity in staffing, content and business operations. This column
first appeared on the Idea Lab blog which can be accessed by visiting
www.pbs.org/idealab .

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

BRIEF: Prison under control after 10-hour riot

BYLINE: Stephanie Sanchez, El Paso Times, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 213 words


Feb. 2--EL PASO -- A riot at the Reeves County Detention Center in Pecos was
under control 10 hours after it started and no injuries were reported, a Reeves
County Sheriff's Office dispatcher said Sunday.

At about 2 p.m. Sunday, dispatch personnel said the situation was under control
but it was still unknown what prompted the riot. During the riot, inmates set
fires to the booking room, kitchen, infirmary and other areas of the detention
center that houses as many as 2,080 inmates.

About 700 inmates were transported to a Sierra Blanca detention center for
housing because sleep quarters were destroyed. Dispatch personnel said no
injuries were reported, but several news accounts state three inmates were
hospitalized.

The detention center, which is about 260 miles east of El Paso, is a low
security level facility. This is the second violent outbreak in two months.

To see more of the El Paso Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.elpasotimes.com. Copyright (c) 2009, El Paso Times, Texas Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090202-EY-BRF-Prison-under-control-after-10-hour-riot-0202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EY


                   Copyright 2009 El Paso Times (El Paso, TX)


                              282 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Communal Violence Bill the need of the hour: Mander

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 437 words


HYDERABAD: Communal parties and 'secular opportunists' are trying to make
Muslims politically irrelevant, social worker and human rights activist Harsh
Mander said here on Tuesday. Efforts are also being made by these elements to
block the Communal Violence Bill (CVB) from being passed in Parliament, he said.

Citing the recent Muzaffarnagar riots as an example, Mander, who led a
fact-finding team to the affected areas, said all communal riots were bound by
"the common thread of manufacturing hate, organising communal machinery and
complicity of the government."

Addressing a gathering of activists and media at Mahboob Hussain Jigar Hall, he
said: "Muzaffarnagar riots saw all these elements. No communal riot will go on
for more than a few hours unless the government wants it to. From witness'
accounts we have understood that police did liAttle to control the riots."

He added that while engineering the riots, political parties including the BJP
had hoped that Hindus would rally behind it, while the Samajwadi Party believed
Muslims would cling on to it. "The government should have courage to pass
Communal Violence Bill with legally binding standards. The government-drafted
bill sought more powers for itself in the face of communal riots. If this
happens minorities will get crushed," Mander said. He said the government
accountability should be increased, instead of more powers. Command
responsibility - meaning origin of orders - should be included in the bill and
the government should provide rescue, relief and rehabilitation to victims. He
noted that the nature of communal riots had changed after the Gujarat riots in
2002. While killings have been lesser in number, there has been a substantial
increase in displacement of minorities.

Lashing out at the BJP's minority appeasement rhetoric, Mander said, "If there
had been minority appeasement, Muslims would've been better than other
communities. Of the 50,000 displaced, between 600 and 700 were dalits living in
Muslim majority neighbourhoods. Around five lakh were displaced in Assam. Such
riots push out Muslims where they are a minority in villages. Many of them don't
return and their properties are taken away or destroyed."

TDP politburo member Zahid Ali Khan said that he would resign from the party if
party leader N Chandrababu Naidu aligns with the BJP. "The fist resignation he
will receive will be from me. He should understand that Muslims will not support
him if there is a TDP-BJP alliance. Alliance with BJP is supporting Narendra
Modi who is now PM candidate. I am against Modi for that job," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Canning Circus riot men fail to win sentence cuts

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


TWO men locked up for their part in a riot that brought terror to the streets of
Nottingham have failed to convince top judges that they were too harshly
punished.

Lance Francis, 26, of no fixed address, and Callum Powell, 21, of Jarrow
Gardens, Bulwell, were in a mob that rampaged the streets near Canning Circus.
Homes and businesses were attacked and shops were looted across the country
during the riots of August, 2011.

In Nottingham, a mob petrol-bombed Canning Circus Police Station, while cars
were attacked - some with people in them - and a petrol bomb was thrown at a
bus.

After the incident, the longest sentence was handed to Lance Francis, who was
jailed for 12-and-a-half years for his involvement in the riot.

Nottingham Crown Court had heard he was an "enthusiastic and leading rioter"
involved in throwing at least one petrol bomb at Canning Circus Police Station.

Francis was found guilty of riot, arson with intent to endanger life, perverting
the course of justice, blackmail, harassment and handling stolen goods.

His co-accused, Powell, got five-and-a-half years in a young offenders'
institution for riot.

An officer had to help him when he fell through the roof of a garage during the
disturbance. Yesterday, a top judge, Lady Justice Rafferty, dismissed appeals by
the men to reduce the size of their sentences.

Sitting at the Appeal Court in London, She described the incident in Canning
Circus as a "planned and premeditated" attack, motivated by hatred of the
police.

Officers were inside the station when it was attacked by a mob of
missile-hurling criminals that night, the court heard. About nine petrol bombs
were said to have been thrown by the gang.

The judge said Francis was a "persistent breaker of the law" who had to also be
sentenced for separate offences including blackmail. Powell, who had previous
convictions for robbery and carrying a blade, could not be linked to any of the
petrol bombs, but had shown a "strong animosity" to police and was happy to join
in the attack. "The impact in Nottingham of the rioting may have been less
serious than elsewhere, but nonetheless was still serious," she said.

Their lawyers had argued that the sentences were too long, Powell's because it
did not fit in with sentences imposed on other rioters, and Francis' because the
total created by adding the blackmail term was excessive.

KEEP UP TO DATE Follow the news throughout the day and join the debate online
nottinghampost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Guilty of riot. Lance Francis, far left, and Callum Powell were locked
up for their parts in the Nottingham riots of August 2011.
City disturbances: Canning Circus Police Station is attacked with petrol bombs
during the riots of 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 17, 2013 Tuesday

SC's electoral reform verdicts may snap political hand behind riots

BYLINE: Dhananjay Mahapatra

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 838 words


The riots that wounded the country at its birth continue to recur every now and
then. Numerous communal conflagrations saw as many judicial or administrative
commissions going into its genesis. Their findings and recommendations remain
unimplemented.

The victims of the vicious 1984 anti-Sikh riots are still awaiting justice -
both from the government and the judiciary. Trial in the post-Godhra communal
pogrom of 2002 has not yet reached its final stages. Except for one politician
in Maya Kodnani, many are yet to feel the rigour of rule of law despite the
Supreme Court clearly observing, "The modern day 'Neros' were looking elsewhere
when Best Bakery and innocent children and women were burning and were probably
deliberating how the perpetrators of the crime can be saved or protected.
[Zahira Habubulla H Sheikh vs Gujarat 2004 (4) SCC 158]."

And now Muzaffarnagar became the theatre for the deadly dance of riots even
though UP is ruled by a political family which champions the cause of minorities
and never wastes an opportunity to wear skull caps to assure them of protection.

After independence, the worst communal riots took place in Gujarat in 1969 when
Congress leader Hiten K Desai was chief minister. Report of the Justice Jagmohan
Reddy Commission indicted the partisan role of police saying Hindu temples near
police stations remained intact but not the mosques.

Police siding with rioters is a common thread in every inquiry report -- Justice
D P Madon Commission on the Bhiwandi, Jalgaon and Madad riots of 1970, Justice
Josepth Vithyathil Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971, Justice
Ranganath Misra Commission on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, Justice
Srikrishna report on Mumbai riots of 1992-1993 and the report of National Human
Rights Commission on the 2002 Gujarat riots.

For decades, the police have been consistently damned for their partisan role
during riots. During these decades, commission after commission appointed by the
Union government repeatedly recommended urgent need for reforms in police
establishment to make it a professional force rather than the alter ego of
politicians in power.

No state has expressed readiness to usher in the reforms, which the Supreme
Court had directed more than six years ago. Instead, they are now telling the
court that it would be unconstitutional for the court to direct them to
implement police reforms.

When police becomes the tool in the hands of politicians, many of whom have
criminal track records or are accused of amassing huge disproportionate wealth,
what does one do?

The Supreme Court in SC Advocates on Record Association case [1993 (4) SCC 411]
had said, "India needs today nothing more than a set of honest men who will have
the interest of the country before them. There is a fissiparous tendency arising
out of various elements in our life. We have communal differences, caste
differences, language differences, provincial differences and so forth. It
requires men of strong character, men of vision, men who will not sacrifice the
interests of the country at large for the sake of smaller groups and areas and
who will rise over the prejudices which are born of these differences."

The year when the SC was looking for a 'set of honest men', the Vohra committee
gave its report on politician-police-bureaucrat-mafia nexus to the government.
Just two paragraphs of it will open the eyes of people about some of the men we
elect to govern us:

"There has been a rapid spread and growth of criminal gangs, armed senas, drug
mafias, smuggling gangs, drug peddlers and economic lobbies in the country which
have, over the years, developed an extensive network of contacts with the
bureaucrats/government functionaries at the local levels, politicians, media
persons and strategically located individuals in the non-state sector. Some of
these syndicates also have international linkages, including foreign
intelligence agencies.

"In certain states like Bihar, Haryana and UP, these gangs enjoy the patronage
of local level politicians, cutting across party lines and the protection of
governmental functionaries. Some political leaders become the leaders of these
gangs, armed senas and over the years get themselves elected to local bodies,
state assemblies and the national Parliament. Resultantly, such elements have
acquired considerable political clout seriously jeopardizing the smooth
functioning of the administration and the safety of life and property of the
common man causing a sense of despair and alienation among the people."

Given the despairing scenario, the Supreme Court's three recent judgments - one
disqualifying MPs and MLAs on their conviction in a serious crime, second
debarring arrested persons from contesting elections and the third, prohibiting
those who don't make full and honest disclosure of their assets and educational
and criminal antecedents from contesting elections - are welcome steps to
instill hope in people to see a 'set of honest men' ruling the country.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                National Edition

Media 'incited' riot crowd: police

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER . Vancouver police are refuting allegations they had advance warning
of the Stanley Cup riots that rocked the city in June, instead accusing the
media of "inciting" crowds to take to the streets.

The department issued a statement Friday denying reports that police were given
a heads-up about the riot during a conversation with officials from the Liquor
Control and Licensing Branch three days before the violence erupted.

The emails between police and liquor officials were released under Freedom of
Information and reported on by the website The Tyee.

In them, liquor board general manger Karen Ayers wrote to deputy solicitor
general Lori Wanamaker about a conversation with liquor-enforcement officials,
ambulance and hospital personnel and several Vancouver police officers,
including Deputy Chief Doug Le Pard, to discuss serious alcohol problems in the
city's downtown and warning that all downtown liquor stores should close early
on the day of Game 6.

"We are expecting record crowds as this may be the deciding game, and given the
escalating problems, intoxication, violence and pre-riotous behaviour," she
wrote, "I have made a decision ... to close all liquor stores in the downtown
Vancouver core at 4 p.m. tomorrow evening."

But on Friday, Vancouver police said the reports they had "received information
from the Liquor Control and Licensing Board that there would be a riot are
simply wrong and untrue."

Instead, police blamed media that "choose to inflame the rhetoric about the riot
based on wrong information, as we were originally concerned by stories and
reporters who beat the drum most loudly, inciting crowds to gather in the first
place."

In a Sept. 6 police review of the force's response to the riot, the department
wrote that: "Prior to game seven, there was no substantiated intelligence that a
riot would occur, no concerns were raised by planners, command staff, or other
VPD officers that there would be a riot. Further, there were no public phone
calls made to the VPD, no reports from school liaison or youth officers that
kids were talking about a riot, no reports from outlying police jurisdictions,
Transit Police, or other public safety partners that a riot was likely, and
nothing credible appearing on social media sources of people organizing to riot
."

It has been 100 days since the riot and no charges have been laid; police said
on Thursday that they expect to charge as many as 40 people next month. As many
as 70 people have now turned themselves in, thanks to photos of suspects posted
on the Vancouver police website.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rich Lam, Getty Images Files; Vancouver police said that reports they
had "received information ... that there would be a riot are simply wrong.";

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Police not to blame: chief defends riot response;
CRONULLA FALLOUT

BYLINE: Ben Cubby and AAP

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words


THE Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, has defended the decision not to break up
a group of about 100 youths who metin a south-western Sydney park the night
after the Cronulla riots, allegedly to plan revenge attacks.

The handling of the gathering, which was reported in the Herald last week, is a
further blow to police over how they dealt with the violence that followed the
riots on December 11 riots.

"At Punchbowl Park on Monday the 12th, that's the day after the Cronulla riot,
two of our police vehicles ... observed a number of people," Mr Moroney said.
"There was dialogue between those officers and the commander [and] the commander
took an operational decision for those four police officers not to advance on
the crowd.

"He's one of my most experienced commanders and I'm sure what would have been
foremost in his mind was the safety and wellbeing of those [officers]."

The group gathered in the park numbered "probably less than 100", he said.

Mr Moroney yesterday removed the head of the riot taskforce over unreleased
closed-circuit TV footage of a bashing that occurred that same night.

The victim of the attack, Steve, said last night he was set upon by a gang of
about 30 men. "They were pretty much consumed by rage. They were angry, very
angry," he told A Current Affair.

"It felt like a long time but it was only about a minute or so ... It seemed
like 20 or 30 guys. I really don't know. They just surrounded me. It was only
the police sirens that made them stop."

Steve's arm was broken and his knee damaged in the assault.

The Premier, Morris Iemma, yesterday described the revenge attackers as grubs.

"The use of the term is acceptable. Have a look at the video ... they're grubs,
they're cowards, they're grubs and we're going to ... bring them to justice, and
it shouldn't offend anybody of any particular background."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: "They're grubs" ... Ken Moroney, right, and Morris Iemma
fight back over claims they handled the riots badly. Below, the revenge victim.
Photos: Nick Moir and Channel 9

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Trump won t face  inciting riot  charge

BYLINE: NC Greene Gary; The News & Observer of Raleigh

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words


Cumberland County sheriff s investigators considered charging Republican
presidential candidate Donald Trump with inciting a riot at his Fayetteville
rally, but decided late Monday that Trump s comments didn t constitute a crime.

Ronnie Mitchell, an attorney for the department, said in a news release Monday
afternoon that investigators were probing an incident last week in which a
protester was punched in the face with an elbow while being escorted out of the
Trump event.

John Franklin McGraw, 78, of Linden, has been charged with assault, disorderly
conduct and communicating threats. Investigators say video shows McGraw punching
the protester.

We are continuing to look at the totality of these circumstances, including any
additional charges against Mr. McGraw, including the potential of whether there
was conduct on the part of Mr. Trump or the Trump campaign which rose to the
level of inciting a riot, and including the actions or inactions of our
deputies,  Mitchell said in the release.

But Monday evening, a sheriff s department spokesman said that after reviewing
the incident,  the evidence does not meet the requisites of the law  regarding
riots.

North Carolina riot law says that  any person who willfully incites or urges
another to engage in a riot, so that as a result of such inciting or urging a
riot occurs or a clear and present danger of a riot is created, is guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.

The law defines a riot as  a public disturbance involving an assemblage of three
or more persons which by disorderly and violent conduct, or the imminent threat
of disorderly and violent conduct, results in injury or damage to persons or
property.

During the Fayetteville event, Trump repeatedly paused his speech during
interruptions from protesters and called on security officers to  get  em out.

In the good old days, this doesn t happen because they used to treat them very,
very rough,  Trump said during one interruption.  And when they protested once,
you know, they would not do it again so easily. But today, they walk in and they
put their hand up, and they put the wrong finger up in the air at everybody, and
they get away with murder because we ve become weak.

McGraw is due in court on April 6, and Trump said Sunday that he s considering
helping McGraw with legal expenses. A video circulated online shows McGraw
saying that he doesn t regret punching the protester and that  the next time we
see him, we might have to kill him.

Cumberland Sheriff Earl  Moose  Butler issued a statement after McGraw s arrest
last week.  Regardless of political affiliation, speech, race, national origin,
color, gender, bad reputation, prior acts or political demonstration, no other
citizen has the right to assault another person or to act in such a way as this
defendant did,  said Butler, who is a Democrat.

At a rally in Hickory on Monday morning, Trump said claims that his events
provoke violence are inaccurate.

You know how many people have been hurt at our rallies?  he said.  I think like
basically none, other than I guess maybe somebody got hit once, but there s no
violence.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday

BJP accuses media of bias in highlighting Gujarat riots

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 272 words


NEW DELHI: On the 10th anniversary of Gujarat riots, BJP on Tuesday alleged the
media has ignored the 1984 anti-Sikh carnage in which convictions were
"negligible" but continues to highlight the 2002 incident despite strong police
action and the state's growth under Narendra Modi.

In an article, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley defended the
role of the Modi government during the riots and maintained that not only have
no such incident taken place in Gujarat since 2002, the state, including its
Muslim population, has seen "remarkable" development.

"Gujarat for a long time had an unfortunate history of such riots, small or big.
It was men and events which triggered such conflicts, the last of such major
riots being in the year 2002. As a section of the media re-visits the Gujarat
riots of 2002, it is equally important to look at Gujarat 10 years after the
riots," Jaitley said.

The senior BJP leader hoped the "unfortunate events of 2002" will never be
repeated. He maintains Gujarat "has moved on and its agenda is no longer a
social divide".

"The memories of 2002 are not revived by the Gujaratis. They are revived by
elements within the society whose relevance exists in reviving the sad memories
of past," Jaitley said.

Describing the Godhra train burning incident as a "barbaric act" that was
planned by "mischievous elements" with the intention of creating communal
trouble, Jaitley said it had "stunned" society.

Hundreds died in police firing in the riots that followed, which is in contrast
to anti-Sikh riots where not one person died in police firing, he maintained.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Monitor (McAllen, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 9, 2014 Monday

BRIEF: Riot and fire at Matamoros prison injures 8 inmates

BYLINE: Ildefonso Ortiz, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 130 words


June 09--Mexican authorities confirmed that a noon riot at the Matamoros prison
set off a fire and injured 8 inmates some with life-threatening injuries.

The riot began at noon in the central and eastern pods where the inmates
involved in the struggle started a fire that caused a series of structural
damages and injured some inmates, a news release from the Tamaulipas Government
shows.

Mexico's military police and Tamaulipas police officers arrived at the prison to
get the riot under control and transported the injured inmates to a local
hospital, the release shows. Their condition and identities were not released.

Check back for updates.

___ (c)2014 The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) Visit The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) at
www.themonitor.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140609-MC-BRF-Riot
-and-fire-at-Matamoros-prison-injures-8-inmates-0609-20140609

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2014 The Monitor


                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            NORTH SHORE TIMES (WED)

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday

to the point

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 370  words


* I UNDERSTAND the RTA and Railcorp have announced this month they will install
on the Harbour Bridge's cycle path: full-height fencing between the cycleway and
the railway; a railway maintenance walkway; and, emergency exits from the rail
corridor. This will mean a significant narrowing of the busiest cycleway in
Sydney. It's barely adequate to cater for the growing bicycle traffic already.
Narrowing the path, even by a small amount, increases the risks of collision
significantly.

John Slaytor, Waverton

* THE first known beach race riots in Sydney occurred in 1770 and 1788 when
local residents welcomed the British Invasions of Captain Cook and Captain
Arthur Phillip. Now beach riots are back in vogue in Sydney. Where can voters
see the latest beach race riots? Beach riots are now available at Cronulla,
Maroubra and Brighton Le Sands. The Beach riot season has already finished in
Macquarie Fields.

Jane Wallace, Riverwood

* THE House of Welcome was the grateful recipient of over 200 green shopping
bags filled with basic food items for distribution to needy refugees and asylum
seekers. I would like to thank the North Shore Times for supporting Carol
Dettman and the North Sydney Friends of Asylum Seekers and Refugees in their
collection. In particular thank you to those wonderful readers who responded so
generously.

Father Jim Carty Carramar

* JUST why is the Pacific Highway, at Gordon, citybound, basically reduced to
just ONE lane? Just go there any time of a working day (after the parking
restrictions are lifted) and you will find that of the three existing lanes. One
is blocked by parked cars, the second is blocked by cars trying to park, and the
third is struggling to cope with Sydney and interstate traffic. How about
getting rid of all parking there?

Herb Filla, Pymble

* I WOULD like to thank all who supported me in the recent NRMA election and
congratulate those on the new board. The bridge /road tolls, fuel prices, unfair
fines, road conditions and transport solutions must be tackled by the new board
with support from the 1.8 million NRMA members. See you next election and please
drive extra carefully enjoy the festive season.

Mick Gallagher, NRMA candidate

for the North Shore region of Perry

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSG


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 29, 2015 Wednesday

BRIEF: Man involved with Rochester riot sentenced

BYLINE: Brian Early, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 181 words


April 29--DOVER -- A youth involved with the Rochester riot last year pleaded
guilty to simple assault and criminal threatening Wednesday.

Dylan Boston, 17, of Rochester, was sentenced to 12 months in county jail, all
suspended with good behavior.

When Boston was originally indicted by the Strafford County Grand Jury for
simple assault and criminal threatening, he was also indicted on a felony riot
charge that was since dropped.

The riot occurred last year on Sept. 5 in the parking lot of Spaulding High
School in Rochester where a 17-year-old victim was allegedly attacked by several
assailants. Boston was around during the riot but not involved. However, soon
after, Rochester police interview witnesses who saw Boston threaten and assault
another victim.

Boston was also ordered to go under anger management classes, take vocational
training and not have any contact with the victim. He is on probation for two
years.

___ (c)2015 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150429-1FD-BRF-Man-involved-with-Rochester-riot
-sentenced-0429-20150429

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2015 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             June 16, 2016 Thursday

Kamal Nath resigns as Punjab affairs in-charge;
"Have been hurt by developments in the past few days where unnecessary
controversy has been created around 1984 riots," said Kamal Nath.

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 318  words


"Have been hurt by developments in the past few days where unnecessary
controversy has been created around 1984 riots," said Kamal Nath.

Days after being appointed as Punjab affairs in-charge, veteran Congress
(http://indianexpress.com/tag/congress/) leader Kamal Nath on Wednesday resigned
from the post. Nath wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/sonia-gandhi/), requesting her to
relieve him from the position after controversy erupted over his appointment.

"Have been hurt by developments in the past few days where unnecessary
controversy has been created around 1984 riots," said Nath.

Congress spokesman Randip Surjewala confirmed Nath's resignation and said the
party president has accepted it.

Nath, facing allegations of leading a mob near Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi
during the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, is a controversial face in Punjab. The state
unit of the party has reacted with shock and disbelief at his appointment in
Punjab where 1984 riots is an emotive issue.

Captain Amarinder Singh, however, has come out in support of Nath.

Amarinder told The Indian Express (http://indianexpress.com/): "Nath had no role
to play in riots. I was the only leader from Punjab to visit Delhi post the
riots. I heard names of five leaders to be responsible for the riots. Nobody
named Nath then. The issue was raised only after the Sikh for Justice leader,
Gurpatwant Singh Pannun sought a ban on his entry to the US in 2010."

Punjab Chief Minsiter Parkash Singh Badal termed Nath's appointment as "the
ultimate insult to Sikhs".

"It is an unbelievable brazen act of insensitivity towards Sikhs and crass and
vulgar disregard of national opinion on the guilty of the massacre of thousands
of innocent Sikh children, men and women by Congress goons in November 1984. I
just cannot believe a political party can be so brutally insensitive to the
sentiments of Sikhs," Badal said.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Kanhaiya's riot remark divides JNUSU

BYLINE: By Astha Saxena in New Delhi

LENGTH: 358  words


JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar's controversial comment on the 2002 Gujarat riots
and the 1984 anti- Sikh riots seems to have divided the student body with its
vice- president Shehla Rashid saying contrasts must not be drawn between the two
tragedies.

" I'm not sure whether his statement is being correctly reported, but if you ask
my position on the issue, I would just say that both 1984 and 2002 were acts of
state- sponsored violence and we must not draw contrasts between two human
tragedies," the JNUSU vice- president posted on Facebook.

Asserting that there is a difference between 2002 riots and 1984 Sikh massacre,
Kanhaiya alleged that the Gujarat violence was carried out by the state
machinery while the other was caused due to mob frenzy.

" There is difference between Emergency and fascism. During Emer- By Astha
Saxena in New Delhi gency, goons of only one party were engaged into goondaism,
in this ( fascism) the entire state machinery is resorting to goondaism. There
is difference between riots of 2002 and 1984 Sikh riots," he said on Monday
while speaking at the ' Jashn- eazaadi' event.

Kanhaiya's comments did not go down well even with his zealous supporters.

Kanhaiya said the Gujarat riots & anti- Sikh riots are quite different.

" Sorry Kanhaiya, you're badly wrong here. The 1984 Anti Sikh pogrom was just as
much sponsored by state machinery," CPI ( ML) politburo member and former JNUSU
president Kavita Krishnan tweeted.

Kanhaiya later released a statement saying he had been misinterpreted. " I have
been misinterpreted and misrepresented yet again. There isn't an iota of doubt
that Emergency represents one of the darkest periods of Indian democracy. My
organisation AISF strongly opposed and fought against the state repression
during Emergency. Both 1984 and 2002 were indeed state led pogroms for which
justice is still awaited. The current central government is relentlessly
carrying forward its fascist agenda using state power, as visible in the recent
authoritarian actions against students and all voices of dissent across the
country. What we now witness is unprecedented - a form of undeclared emergency,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

First riot defendant gets 'slap on the wrist';
Police chief says 18-year-old's treatment after guilty plea proves point that
police cannot rush cases to court

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


An 18-year-old who was arrested by Surrey RCMP and pleaded guilty to possession
of stolen property linked to the Stanley Cup riot has received an absolute
discharge, and Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu says the "slap on the wrist"
underscores why police can't rush cases to court.

Karanvir Singh Saran pleaded guilty in Surrey Provincial Court on Nov. 2. RCMP
say the young man was taken into custody after a teacher heard him brag about
being in possession of stolen swimsuits.

However, Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said the Crown concluded that the
evidence wasn't sufficient to conclude that he stole the property. The absolute
discharge means Mr. Saran will have no criminal record related to the case.

Mr. Saran's case was led by the Mounties and is not linked to 60 riot files
Vancouver police forwarded to the Crown on Oct. 31. The Crown has not approved
charges in any of those cases, meaning the first guilty plea connected to the
June 15 riot that caused millions of dollars in damage came as a result of an
RCMP investigation.

"This was a fog-of-war thing, just an inadvertent type of thing," Chief Chu said
during a roundtable with The Globe and Mail. "The possession of stolen property
occurred in Surrey, because you had stolen property in Surrey. Ideally, what
they should have done is tied it into a broader investigation, but this one
slipped through the cracks."

The Vancouver Police Department has been widely criticized for the pace of its
investigation of the riot, in which more than 100 people were injured. Nearly
five months later, no one has been charged.

But Chief Chu said the absolute discharge demonstrates why Vancouver police made
the decision to take their time.

"This thing in Surrey actually proves our point," he said. "You rush a case, you
get a slap on the wrist."

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson called the sentence "disappointing" and
expressed hope the courts would hold those linked to the riot accountable.

The mayor also weighed in on a Globe and Mail story in which a Vancouver police
investigator said the city's decision to allow throngs of people to congregate
and drink downtown during the Stanley Cup playoffs was a "recipe for disaster."
He called the allegations "off base."

Corporal Drew Grainger, a Surrey RCMP spokesman, said Mr. Saran was arrested the
day after the riot. Charges against him were approved on July 11.

He said the swimsuits Mr. Saran had still bore tags from the downtown Vancouver
store from which they were stolen.

"How he came into contact with them has never really been determined," the RCMP
spokesman said. Mr. Saran was not charged with theft or participating in a riot.

Cpl. Grainger said the case was "unusual" because people don't generally brag
about their crimes in public. He said that as far as he's aware, the case is the
only one linked to the riot that was forwarded to the Crown by Surrey RCMP.

"This was a one-off incident," he said, adding the Vancouver police's riot team
wasn't in place when Surrey RCMP made the arrest.

Attorney-General Shirley Bond said she was concerned that the case was handled
outside of the process set up for investigating and prosecuting riot-related
cases.

"We want all riot-related offences to be handled by the integrated riot
investigation team and our riot prosecution team," she said. "I certainly have
made it clear that any future files will be brought to the attention of the riot
prosecution team."

With a report from Justine Hunter

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Reality check: were estates to blame for the riots?

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 763 words

ABSTRACT

Iain Duncan Smith today suggests that "ghettos" of poor quality social housing,
ignored by the middle classes, were a factor in this summer's riots. In a new
series fact-checking the biggest stories of the day Polly Curtis, with your
help, asks whether estates contributed to the violence that broke out in
England's cities. Email polly.curtis@guardian.co.uk or contact her on Twitter
@pollycurtis

FULL TEXT

10.17am: The work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith today suggests that
the middle classes have ignored the plight of life of grim council estates for
too long, describing this summer's riots as the moment when "the inner city
finally came to call". For the first time he raises the issue of the problems of
English council estates, where 4m people live, as a factor in the disturbances.

, he talks about the "dysfunctional" communities he has visited "many of which
had become fertile grounds for drug dealers, gang recruiters and violent
moneylenders". He writes:

"For years now, too many people have remained unaware of the true nature of life
on some of our estates. This was because we had ghettoised many of these
problems, keeping them out of sight of the middle-class majority. But last month
the inner city finally came to call, and the country was shocked by what it
saw."

The question

Were estates to blame for the riots?

I'm going to gather the quantitative data on the geography of the rioting that's
so far available, draw on the considerable expertise within the Guardian
building and academic research on previous riots to address this question. Can
you help? Do get in touch with any evidence or lines of inquiry you think we
should be looking at and I'll blog information today as I come to it and we'll
attempt an answer to this question together by the end of the day.

The analysis

To start off I've just been speaking with Paul Lewis, the Guardian's
investigations editor who is leading our coverage of the riots, including our
unique collaboration with academics, , which is investigating the causes. He
points me towards a piece of analysis that the Guardian's  team carried out in
the weeks after the riots. The Datablog mapped the riots, and the addresses of
the suspects gathered from magistrates courts, to test David Cameron's assertion
at the time that poverty played no role in the violence.

Paul says that the conclusion of this is that there were different geographical
patterns to the riots in different areas of the country. In London riots took
place close to where rioters live; in other areas such as Manchester people left
their communities and went to a shopping mall or town centre. But deprivation
was certainly a unifying factor.

Alex Singleton at Liverpool University who analysed the data with the datablog
team  that there was a strong link between the rioting and rioters and
deprivation. He concluded:

These limited data and analysis seem to suggest that those people who have been
appearing on riot-related charges (typically young males) live in some of the
most deprived areas of our largest cities, and in neighbourhoods where the
conditions are getting worse rather than better. Rioting is deplorable, however,
if events such as this are to be mitigated in the future, the prevailing
conditions and constraints effecting people living in areas must form part of
the discussion. A "broken society" happens somewhere, and geography matters.

In terms of links to individual estates there was intensive coverage of the
riots in Hackney, where the worst violence was around the Pembury Estate. My
colleague Esther Addley wrote about it in the immediate days after the riots.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2011/aug/09/london-riots-kids-parents-police.

The Times  (£) the estate in a piece today reflecting on the riots and Duncan
Smith's claim.

The Times reports that the average income for family on the Pembury Estate is
under £9,000 while in neighbouring mortgaged properties it is more than £46,000
describing a "huge expanse" of overcrowded social housing.

, MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, tells the Times:

There used to be a mixture of unemployed people, single mums, and families where
the head of the family was in employment. Now some estates are made up of only
unemployed people. The thing about living on a council estate is that there is
not much hope.

I'll update with more evidence through the day as we get to it but can you help?
Get in touch below the line, email  or contact me on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday

Karnataka stands second in communal, political riots cases

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Aug. 31 -- The latest crime data for the country shows that Karnataka
reported the second highest number of communal and political riots. But this
isn't to say that the atmosphere in the state has been polarised. In fact, the
numbers can be attributed to the state's reporting mechanism.

The National Crime Records Bureau's data for 2015 shows that Haryana topped the
list with 201 cases of communal riots in 2015. Karnataka trailed with 163 cases.
Karnataka also reported the second highest number of political riots at 166
cases, far behind Kerala that reported 1,031 cases.

R S Deshpande, former director of Institute of Social and Economic Change,
Bengaluru, said, "As a political observer I don't see why there should be a
reason for spurt in communal riots in the state. There is no reason why the
political atmosphere needs to be polarised. It may be because of the state's
strong reporting system. I can say that in the recent past we have seen a few
more riots than before. This is in retraction to the national political scene."

Deshpande added, "Even small skirmishes are being reported with caste and
community colour. There has been a change in the definition of communal riots.
Also, bear in mind that when an incident gets reported as a communal riot there
is greater leverage for news. Even if a lingayat and a vokkaliga fight for
financial reasons, their community will be drawn into it."

Bengaluru also has the dubious distinction of reporting the second highest
number of riots at 373 cases, after Mumbai (396). In arson cases, Bengaluru
stands third with 99 reported cases, following Delhi with 182.

The city recorded the maximum number of cases of crimes against Dalits (SCs) -
127 cases.

Minister for Social Welfare H Anjaneya, a Dalit, said that the value of land
given to Scheduled Castes through land committees between 1972 and 75 has
increased over the years. Crimes against SCs have increased in a bid to reclaim
these government grants. "These are landless people. They own one to three acres
of land. There are atrocities against them to reclaim it from them as the land
value has increased manifold of late," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                              July 11, 2014 Friday

Muzaffarnagar riots: UP govt sanctions more funds for victims

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: Muzaffarnagar


uzaffarnagar, July 11 -- The Uttar Pradesh government has sanctioned an
additional amount of Rs 3.28 crore for providing relief to riot victims,
district authorities said on Friday.

The state government has released more funds of Rs 3.28 crore for riot victims.
Relief would be provided to 58 families of riots victims, 52 injured and 70
house owners whose houses got damaged in riots, additional district magistrate
Indermani Tripathi told reporters.

The step has been taken on the direction of Supreme Court to provide adequate
relief and rehabilitation funds riot victims in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining
areas.

The communal violence, which had broken out in September last year in
Muzaffarnagar and adjoining towns, had claimed over 40 lives and rendered above
50,000 people homeless.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

Comedy review: Alfie Moore - I Predicted a Riot Pleasance Courtyard (venue 33)

BYLINE: Kate Copstick

LENGTH: 301  words


It IS a tribute to the overwhelmingly entertaining nature of Alfie Moore's show
that he almost immediately made me forget my shock and horror at paying £4.30
for a pint of cider in the bar beforehand.

RATING * * * *

This is a lovely, personal and genuine hour of comedy from a
policeman-turned-comedian. His stories are of his experiences in the police with
emphasis on, as the title of the show suggests, riots. He compares and contrasts
the London riots of last summer with other "great riots of the world". And the
result is a genuinely funny hour.

But Moore gives us more than just chav chat and riot shield techniques, he
pepper sprays his hour with lovely stuff about religion, politics, marriage and
Postman Pat; he bemoans his lack of physical fitness and examines the phenomenon
of children "growing into" the names they are given.

But it is the glorious roll-out of tales about life behind the thin blue line
that are the heart and soul of this lovely hour. And it has a big heart. Alfie,
we learn, has been set on fire, stabbed and punched repeatedly (though not all
on the one call-out, I hasten to add). His tales are more like The Bill than
Heartbeat, but they are a clever combination of fascinating, frightening and
funny. With a fair old amount of inside information on police procedures thrown
in.

Moore might be tasering himself in the foot with the force, but I can see him
rising fast through the ranks with comedy audiences. It is a marvellous thing to
watch an audience relax, kick back and  get to love a show and its performer.
That is exactly what happens here.

And Moore's chunkily avuncular presence is, quite simply, a joy. In a comedy
world full of boys and girls with dangerous hairdos and nothing to say, Alfie
Moore is a proper grown-up's comic.

Until 27 August. Today 9:50pm.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Man faces jail term for riot invite

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 113 words


A MAN faces a lengthy jail term after inviting dozens of people on Facebook to
join a riot in a Fife town during last year s English riots.

Gary Kennedy invited other users of the social networking site to a page titled
Let s cause riots in Fife , at the height of the riots that swept a series of
cities last August.

Rioting gripped areas of London and the city centres of Manchester, Nottingham,
Birmingham, Gloucester and other towns.

Susannah Hutchison, prosecuting, told Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court:  He said it was
meant to be a joke and he hadn t expected it to go as far as it had.

Kennedy, 20, of Leven, Fife, admitted the charge. Sentencing was deferred for
background reports.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 18, 2011 Friday

Seven Baha'is arrested during recent rallies in Iran - paper

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report headlined "Arrest of seven Baha'is in Israeli riot on 25 Bahman
[14 February]" published by Iranian newspaper Javan on 17 February

Some Baha'i agents were arrested during the Israeli riot on 25 Bahman [14
February]. With this, the role of the Israeli regime in guiding riots of this
day became obvious. These riots were guided by the leaders of sedition, Baha'is,
monarchists, hypocrites [members of the Mojahedin-e Khalq Organization] and
terrorist groups.

After the riots of 25 Bahman, seven members of the seductive sect of Baha'i were
arrested by security forces, Javan reported. These had had an active role in the
riots and were acting based on the orders sent from the Beit-ol Adl [the House
of Justice] in Israel.

It should be mentioned that during the 2009 sedition [post-election unrest in
2009], some agents of this sect had been arrested and as a result the nature of
their activities had been revealed.

Source: Javan newspaper, Tehran, in Persian 17 Feb 11, p 2

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            November 16, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Auburn riot fears halt raids, police say;
CRIME

BYLINE: Dylan Welch

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 409 words


RAIDS in the volatile Sydney suburb of Auburn are being delayed because of
political policing stemming from a fear of summer riots, police say.

Several officers have told the Herald they are being forced to delay raids
looking for guns and drugs because the NSW Police Force executive is fearful of
the negative publicity that would result from a riot in the area.

In early September, officers from the Middle Eastern Organised Crime Squad
raided four houses in Auburn and a large crowd gathered to watch. Senior police
were concerned about the potential for violence and called the riot squad.

Three people were arrested for allegedly assaulting police, but officers say the
incident was far from a riot. "It was a couple of kids throwing rocks," one
said.

A raid last week on an Auburn man in which officers were looking for a handgun
and drugs was delayed at least 12 hours â[#x20ac]" leaving the man with a deadly
weapon for another night â[#x20ac]" because the riot squad and the tactical
operations unit were not available.

"Here's a bloke who's got a gun. Carries it. And we've got the warrants to take
it off him but we had to wait. We had to wait only for concern about adverse
publicity, not because of concerns for our officers' safety," one officer said.

So intense is the scrutiny, one relatively junior officer received an email
straight from the Commissioner of Police, Andrew Scipione, asking about the
raid.

They are frustrated that the riot squad is not always available â[#x20ac]" it
doesn't work Monday or Tuesday â[#x20ac]" and they are forced to delay critical
raids. "It's riot by appointment," one officer said.

But the commander of the Middle Eastern Crime Squad, Deb Wallace, said the riot
squad's unavailability was not the only reason the raid was delayed.

"The operation was delayed by a day for a variety of operation reasons, not just
the decision to involve [the public order and riot squad]," she said. "It was a
highly successful operation that went off without incident."

The raid on the Auburn man was the latest in a series to try to keep a lid on
simmering local tensions between two crime groups.

Police have expressed concern the feud between the Parramatta chapter of the
Bandidos Motorcycle Club and the street gang Notorious may erupt again.

Last summer there were several drive-by shootings in south-western and western
Sydney believed to be related to that feud. It culminated in a gun battle in
Auburn in March, with dozens of bullets hitting houses.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                                Final C Edition

Riot suspect held in custody pending bail; Suspected Stanley Cup rioter Dustin
Anderson accused of assaulting a firefighter

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 321  words


Dustin Anderson, the latest per-son to be charged with taking part in last
summer's Stanley Cup riot, has been arrested and remains in custody pending a
bail hearing.

Anderson, 21, of Burnaby, made a brief appearance in Vancouver Provincial Court
on Wednesday and was ordered held in custody.

He is scheduled to appear in court today for a bail hearing on charges of taking
part in a riot and assault.

He is alleged to have been captured on video hitting a firefighter and taunting
a police officer. He was also alleged to be filmed pouring milk over his head
after being pepper-sprayed.

Crown has approved 77 charges against 30 accused rioters. Police have
recommended 215 charges against 80 suspected rioters. The charges relate to the
mob riot and destruction that occurred on June 15, after the Vancouver Canucks
lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final.

Those who have been charged are beginning to make court appearances.

Robert Snelgrove, 25, who is charged with break and enter and participating in a
riot, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court on Wednesday briefly and will be
back in court on Jan. 31.

Spencer Kirkwood, 25, who is up on participating in a riot and mischief charges,
had his case moved to Jan. 26.

Jeff Post, charged with participating in a riot and mischief, had a lawyer
appear on his behalf and will be back in court Feb. 1.

The most recent people to be charged in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot include a
woman whose name appeared in an apology posted online after the violence last
June.

Vancouver police say 21-year-old Camille Cacnio of Richmond is charged with
taking part in a riot and break and enter.

After she was identified as a riot suspect, Cacnio lost her job at a car
dealership and a message under her name was posted online.

The message apologized to the people of Vancouver, Cacnio's family and friends,
her former employer, a store that was robbed and the Vancouver Canucks.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Procaylo - PNG; Spencer Kirkwood also appeared in court on charges
related to the riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                                October 23, 2011

'Village culture' meant no riots

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the
causes of the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city
remained trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.


A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the causes of
the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city remained
trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.

Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough MP David Blunkett organised the visit so
the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel's members could 'learn about
what the city has done so right to avoid the rioting that affected many parts of
the country'.

Sheffield is the largest city in England in which no trouble occurred.

Sheffield Council leader Coun Julie Dore, who met the panel, said: "I believe
the riots didn't happen in Sheffield because of the city's culture as a big
village which is very inclusive and cohesive.

"There is a lot of work that goes on through the council, police and voluntary
sector with all members of the community."

Coun Dore said a major factor in keeping Sheffield trouble-free had been efforts
by police to get to know youngsters in areas hit by postcode gang problems in
the past had helped break down barriers with young people.

The panel, chaired by Darra Singh, met council chief executive John Mothersole,
Mr Blunkett, council officers working on community cohesion and civic pride, and
South Yorkshire Police.

Mr Blunkett said: "Together with Sheffield Council, I was pleased to invite
Darra Singh and his fellow members of the Riot Communities and Victims Panel to
Sheffield to talk through the lessons that can be learnt from a city that did
not experience the devastation and disturbances of August.

"Not only did Sheffield avoid this year's riots, but the city was also free of
the riots of 1981, 1985 and those 10 years ago in many northern cities."

Mr Singh, who chairs the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said:
"The Riots Communities and Victims Panel is travelling the country, speaking to
a range of people including residents, businesses and young people to gather
evidence about their experience of the riots.

"As part of the Panel's work, we are interested in finding out what could have
been done differently to manage or prevent the riots and why they happened in
some areas and not others. That's why we have visited Sheffield , as a large
city that didn't have any rioting.

"I am interested to find out first hand what measures they had in place and what
steps they took to prevent the riots from affecting their community, keeping the
city free of trouble.''

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSTE


                       Copyright 2011 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Alberni Valley Times (British Columbia)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Business association awarded for riot response

BYLINE: News Services

SECTION: NEWS; British Columbia News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 214  words


The Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement Association has been awarded a
Pinnacle Award of excellence from the International Downtown Association for the
DVBIA's response to this year's Stanley Cup Riot, including its "Vanlover"
campaign.

The award was handed last month out at the international association's
conference in Charlotte, N.C., the DVBIA said Wednesday. The award recognized
the Vancouver association for its leadership in association management,
particularly its quick communication with its 8,000 members immediately after
the riot, when it launched the "Vanlover" campaign to capitalize on the civic
pride of residents and invited Vancouverites to come back downtown.

There was an immediate return of visitors to downtown within days after the riot
. A poll done days after the June 15 Stanley Cup riot, which involved looting of
stores and millions in damages, found that 78% of respondents believed the
effect of the riot would damage Vancouver's reputation internationally and
across Canada.

But new poll results released Wednesday show that only 68% of respondents feel
that the riot harmed Vancouver's reputation, a significant drop. The new poll
found Vancouver residents are laying the blame for the riot on the City of
Vancouver and the Vancouver Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Alberni Valley Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Rivals launch attack on Salmond

BYLINE: By Paul Gilbride

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 455  words


ALEX Salmond was caught up in a row yesterday as he sought to distance Scotland
from the rioting in England's biggest cities.

The First Minister said he was frustrated that the four days of unrest were
being characterised as UK riots when they had nothing to do with Scotland.

Mr Salmond took to the air in a move aides said was to prevent copycats and
protect the country's GBP 11billion-a-year tourism industry after some foreign
governments warned their citizens that visiting Britain was dangerous.

Both the BBC and Sky changed their headlines to "English Riots" following
representations from the Scottish Government.

But opposition politicians accused the SNP leader of trying to make "political
capital" from the violence.

Critics also questioned why Mr Salmond had failed to issue a statement of
solidarity with riot victims south of the Border.

His administration has tried to involve itself in incidents as diverse as the
Norwegian gun massacre, the Japanese and New Zealand earthquakes and Northern
Ireland water shortage with offers of aid and expressions of sympathy.

The row erupted as it emerged that police from Scotland were being sent to
England to help combat riots and disorder. A total of 250 riot-trained police
have been sent under the mutual aid scheme between the countries.

However, Mr Salmond stressed that Scotland would not be left unprotected, with
more than 17,000 officers available for duty.

He said: "We know we have a different society in Scotland. One of my
frustrations yesterday was to see the events being described as riots in the UK.

"Until we have a riot in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and
other English cities."

A storm also erupted on Twitter when his comments were echoed by recently
elected Nationalist MSP Joan McAlpine, who said Scotland should be "proud" that
it was riot-free and ready to welcome "peaceful visitors".

David Mundell, the Scottish Office minister, said: "It is a parochial and petty
view to say he was frustrated by media talk of 'riots in the UK' as if that was
the most pressing issue we face."

Labour MP Tom Harris said: "It is pathetic Saltire-waving when we should be
showing solidarity with people in the rest of Britain."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, expressed his "disappointment and
embarrassment" at Mr Salmond's "small-minded" reaction to the riots.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie claimed the comments were the
"worst face of nationalism".

An SNP spokeswoman said:

"The fact is that these riots are not taking place across the UK, but are so far
confined to London and other English cities. We extend sympathy and support to
our friends and neighbours, but saying they are UK-wide might just encourage
idiots and thugs here."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond complained of 'UK riots' tag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

The Wire: Cossacks attack Pussy Riot; Ukraine in flames; vicious cruise assault;
Russian hockey collapse; tiger suicide fail

BYLINE: By Karl Kahler kkahler@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 973 words


Cossacks attack Pussy Riot in Sochi

Among all the possible bad outcomes for the punk protest group Pussy Riot in
Sochi, we didn't foresee an attack by the Cossacks with horsewhips. But as six
members of the ill-defined activist group appeared in their ski masks Wednesday
under a sign advertising the Winter Olympics and mocked Vladimir Putin, Cossack
security forces immediately showed up, beat them with horsewhips, ripped off
their masks, threw away their plastic guitar and left one man with blood on his
face -- but did not arrest anyone. AP says the group jumped up and down and
"sang-shouted" in Russian: "Putin will teach you how to love the motherland!"
The Cossacks, a remnant of czarist Russia used as elite security forces, moved
in using whips and apparently pepper spray. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, who was
recently released from a prison sentence over a "punk protest" in Moscow's main
cathedral, was beaten with a whip as she lay on the ground in an attack that
lasted less than three minutes. Police arrived afterward and questioned
witnesses but made no arrests.

Ukraine in chaos and arming for worse

As riots in Ukraine left at least 25 dead and hundreds injured, the nation's
security agency accused protesters Wednesday of seizing hundreds of firearms
from its offices and announced a major anti-terrorist operation to restore
order. Meanwhile, protesters stood their ground against riot police on the main
square in Kiev and seized control of the central post office. Thousands of
activists armed with fire bombs and rocks have defended Independence Square,
known as the Maidan, against riot police armed with water cannon, stun grenades
and rubber bullets. Russian President Vladimir Putin telephoned Ukrainian
President Viktor Yanukovych overnight, reportedly urging a stronger crackdown on
demonstrations, while some European countries called for sanctions against the
Ukrainian government. "The revolution turned into a war with the authorities,"
said Vasyl Oleksenko, 57, a retired geologist from central Ukraine who fled
Tuesday night's violence fearing for his life, but returned to the square in the
morning. "We must fight this bloody, criminal leadership. We must fight for our
country, our Ukraine." President Barack Obama, in Mexico for talks with the
Mexican and Canadian leaders, urged the Ukrainian military to stay out of the
conflict, and warned that there would be unspecified "consequences" for violence
against peaceful protesters.

Cruise ship worker admits to brutalizing U.S. passenger

A cruise ship worker admitted to a bizarre attack on an American passenger in
which he beat her, sexually assaulted her, strangled her and attempted to throw
her overboard off the coast of Honduras, federal authorities said. Ketut
Pujayasa, 28, of Indonesia told investigators he tried to deliver breakfast to
the woman's room Friday and after he knocked three times she said, "Wait a
minute, son of a bitch!" FBI Special Agent David Nunez wrote in his report,
"Pujayasa stated that the passenger's comments of 'son of a bitch' was offensive
to himself and his parents. He was angry and upset the rest of the day." On
Friday night, while off duty, he used his master key to enter her room and hid
on her balcony. When the 31-year-old woman returned he attacked her, hitting her
with a curling iron and laptop, sexually assaulting her and trying to silence
her screams by choking her with a telephone cord, according to his confession.
The woman fought back, using a corkscrew to attack his exposed genitals, Nunez
wrote. Finally, he tried to throw her overboard but was interrupted by a knock
on her door. He fled her stateroom and was detained on the ship shortly
afterward. Pujayasa was jailed in Florida on attempted murder and aggravated
sexual abuse charges. The victim was flown by air ambulance to a hospital in
South Florida.

Russia's hockey hopes crushed by Finland

In a meltdown on ice that crushed the home crowd at the Sochi Olympics, the
Russian men's hockey team was eliminated Wednesday in a 3-1 loss to Finland.
Russia, a hockey-crazy country with several NHL greats, hasn't won the gold
since 1992, and its quarterfinal elimination on its own soil was a heartbreaker
to both the team and its fans. "Inside, I'm absolutely empty," said Pavel
Datsyuk of the Detroit Red Wings. Alex Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals said,
"We had a good start, score (on the) power play, feel pretty good. Few mistakes
cost us the game. We tried to score another one, but we didn't score. ... No
emotion right now." Things went much better Wednesday for skier Ted Ligety of
Park City Utah, who won the gold in the giant slalom, giving the U.S. ski team
its biggest victory in Sochi. "This is the event I wanted the most," said
Ligety, 29. "This is the event I have been putting so much pressure on myself to
win, so to pull through is an awesome feeling."

Tigers uncooperative in man's suicide attempt at Chinese zoo

A depressed man in China climbed into a Bengal tiger's enclosure in a Chinese
zoo and spent 20 minutes trying to goad the animals to eat him, but all they did
was smack him around a bit. Yang Jinhai, 27, was quoted by the Chengdu Business
Daily on the Sunday incident at Chengdu Zoo, "I asked them to bite me and let
them eat my meat, and so I did not fight back." Yang climbed a tree branch to
get into the enclosure, and shocked visitors watched as he made "exaggerated
movements" to provoke the white tigers. They scratched him and dragged him by
his collar, but the beasts declined to devour him. They tigers were tranquilized
so the man could be rescued, and he is now being treated for depression.

The Wire, a summary of top national and world news stories from the Associated
Press and other wire services, moves weekdays. Contact Karl Kahler at
408-920-5023; follow him attwitter.com/karl_kahler .

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Russian forward Yevgeni Malkin lies on the ice in the closing minutes
of the third period Wednesday in a men's quarterfinal hockey game that Finland
won 3-1 at Bolshoy Arena in Sochi, Russia, at the 2014 Winter Olympics. David J.
Phillip/AP Photo
Anti-government protesters use a catapult Wednesday to launch projectiles at
riot police in Kiev's Independence Square, the epicenter of Ukraine's unrest.
(Efrem Lukatsky/AP Photo)
A Cossack militiaman, horsewhip in hand, attacks members of the punk protest
group Pussy Riot, including Nadezhda Tolokonnikova in the blue balaclava and
Maria Alekhina in the pink, in downtown Sochi on Wednesday. Morry Gash/AP Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           December 5, 2013 Thursday

BJP opposes pension to riot victims

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Dec. 5 -- Opposing the decision of the state government to give pension
to riot victims the Bharatiya Janata Party said that this decision proves
Government was promoting violent incidents.

''The decision of the government to provide Rani Laxmi Bai pension to the family
of theinjured in the riots will in a way promote violent incidents,' UP BJP
spokesman Vijay Bahadur Pathak said in a statement here on Wednesday. He
questioned whether the victims of earlier riots or future riots would get
similar pension. The state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Akhilesh
Yadav had announced that 74 riot-hit families would get the pension of Rs 400
per month.

''The families of the injured from Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Saharanpur, Baghpat
and Meerut would get Rs 400 per month from September as per the rules and
guidelines of the Rani Laxmi Bai Pension scheme of the state government,'' an
official had said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

State-Run Russian TV Station Airs Controversial Documentary about Pussy Riot

BYLINE: Vladimir Kozlov

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 339  words


MOSCOW - On Sept. 11, the Russian state-run television channel Rossiya aired a
documentary about Pussy Riot, containing allegations that the feminist punk
band's controversial performance was paid for by an exiled tycoon.


In the film, made by veteran reporter Arkady Mamontov, Pussy Riot members, three
of which were sentenced to two years in prison last month for their "punk
prayer" in Moscow's Christ the Savior Cathedral, were portrayed as
"blasphemers."


The documentary also featured allegations that the "punk prayer," during which
Pussy Riot members were singing "Mother Mary, drive Putin away," was
masterminded and paid for by exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky, who is
wanted by Russia's law enforcers for alleged economic crimes and was granted
asylum in Great Britain.


In a filmed interview, Aleksey Veshnyak, head of the obscure organization
Preobrazheniye, said he believes Berezovsky is behind Pussy Riot's cathedral
gig, based on a meeting the two had in London a year before.


Berezovsky denied any connection between him and Pussy Riot. "Of course, I have
nothing to do with Pussy Riot," he was quoted as saying by the Russian FM radio
station Ekho Moskvy. "Of course, I didn't discuss any "Pussy Riot project" with
[Veshnyak]. But if I had invented that as a project I would have been very
proud. This is a very creative project."


The documentary also attacked Western artists who expressed support for Pussy
Riot, alleging that they were paid to do that. It contained an interview with
American analyst William Dunkerley, who cited unnamed sources in the British
show business as saying that some producers were offered up to 100,000 euros for
statements in support of Pussy Riot.


Pussy Riot's lawyers dismissed Mamontov's allegations as "idiocy," the wire
service Interfax reported.


Meanwhile, even within the Russian Orthodox church, not everyone accepted
Mamontov's version of the Pussy Riot case. Archdeacon Andrei Kurayev sharply
criticized the film in his blog. "I'm not for Pussy Riot," he wrote. "But why
lie?"



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2012 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

BJP accuses Rahul of dodging real issues

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Oct. 24 -- After Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP
of fanning communal passions and inciting violence in Muzafarnagar, the main
Opposition party reacted sharply asking the Congress to explain the 1984
anti-Sikh riots and accused the ruling party of trying to deflect attention from
core issues of price rise and corruption.

BJP leaders said Rahul was making baseless charges and directed the Congress to
look into its own track record.

"If political parties are responsible for riots, then what the Congress has to
say about the 1984 riots in which all those killed belonged to a particular
religion? who is responsible for the riots in Mumbai (1993), Bhiwandi (1985),
Meerut (1987), Moradabad (1980) and Surat (1969)? More people died in these
riots and there were charges that the police acted in a partisan manner. What
does Rahul have to say about them?" BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi asked.

Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "It is
very unfortunate that Rahul has spoken about the assassination of his
grandmother and illness of his mother during electioneering and made an
emotional appeal to the people to vote for the Congress."

BJP leaders said Rahul's emotional pitch was aimed at diverting attention from
real issues. Trivedi said the Congress was trying to divert attention from the
core issues of price rise, corruption and mal-governance.

BJP spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi said, "With regard to rioting history, he
better remember the 1984 riots, and he would better off remembering the deeds of
his father and grandmother. In the 1967 riots, his grandmother made a statement
directly about the Gujarat riots. Post that, in 1969, till 2002 there were riots
every year in Gujarat. Come to the Narendra Modi Government, Gujarat has not
seen a single riot," Lekhi said.

The BJP also questioned Rahul's statement during the rally on the highways
construction and Land Acquisition Bill. "The minister (Jairam Ramesh), who moved
the legislation, had thanked Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj
in Parliament for supporting the bill," Trivedi said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

David Cameron aims to extend citizen service scheme in aftermath of riots

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 464 words

ABSTRACT

PM wants voluntary scheme available to every teenager after GCSEs, and says
riots showed 'deep problems' in society

FULL TEXT

David Cameron has said he wants to roll out his national citizen service scheme
more widely than originally planned because the recent riots have highlighted
the importance of teaching young people about responsibility and
self-discipline.

The prime minister said he wanted the scheme to be available to every teenager
after GCSEs so that young people could learn "that real fulfilment comes not
from trashing things or being selfish but by building things and working with
others".

In , Cameron reaffirmed his belief that the riots illustrated the existence of
"deep problems" in society such as a decline in responsibility and a rise in
selfishness.

Cameron's analysis contrasts sharply with that of Tony Blair  Blair said Britain
was "not in the grip of some general moral decline", and that instead the riots
were caused by a particular minority, "the group of young, alienated,
disaffected youth who are outside the social mainstream".

Cameron has already announced pilot citizen service schemes, which will involve
teenage volunteers from different backgrounds working together on community
projects. Some 11,000 teenagers will be involved in pilots this year, and 30,000
in 2012.

Cameron said the riots had made him reconsider his plans. "Before the riots we
were already looking to roll this out across the country, with up to 30,000
teenagers taking part next year, but after the riots, I feel our ambitions
weren't big enough," he said.

"I want the national citizen service to be available to every teenager after
GCSEs. I want them to learn that they can make a difference in their communities
and that real fulfilment comes not from trashing things or being selfish but by
building things and working with others."

Cameron's idea is likely to be popular. According to  77% of people would
support national citizen service being compulsory for young people.

Cameron said he wanted the police to be more visible on the streets. "We need a
stronger police presence on the streets, deterring crime and catching criminals
instead of filling in forms or wasting time on phony targets. That is what
people want."

He said the "misrepresentation of human rights" had contributed to moral decline
by undermining personal responsibility.

"We are looking at creating our own British bill of rights," he said. "We are
going to fight in Europe for changes to the way the European court works and we
will fight to ensure people understand the real scope of these rights and do not
use them as cover for rules or excuses that fly in the face of common sense."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

GENEALOGY;
Events in September will mark 1906 Atlanta riot

BYLINE: KENNETH H. THOMAS JR.

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 5MS

LENGTH: 453 words


The remembrance of the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot takes place in September, and
several local groups are continuing research on that subject. The Metro Atlanta
Chapter of the Afro-American Historical and Genealogical Society and the
Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot are seeking family members of
those involved in the riot in any capacity.

In particular, they are seeking descendants of individuals murdered or wounded
in the riot, so they can be properly recognized during the centennial. Among
those known to have been killed or wounded during the riot: Mattie Adams,
Eustace Brown, Milton Brown, Walter Brown, Wiley Brooks, Marshall Carter, Georg
Dickerson, Stinson Ferguson, James Fletcher, Frank Fambro, Malcolm Harris,
Officer Jim Heard, Andrew Holly, Walter Jeffers, Zeb Long, Leola Maddox, Will
Marion, Luther McGee, Sam McGruder, J.C. McCoy, Jim Middlebrooks, Will Moreland,
Ben Nelson, Milton Peterson, James N. Reeves, Clem Rhodes, Sam Robinson, Annie
Laurie Shepard, Frank Smith, Roy Thomas, Tom Walton, William Wardlow, Ed Watson,
Henry Welch and George Wilder.

If you have any information about these individuals, or about any others
involved in or witness to the riot, contact the AAHGS at
AAHGS_metroatlanta@yahoo.com or Clarissa Myrick-Harris and Cliff Kuhn of the
Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot at
publiceducation@1906atlantaraceriot.org or 770-423-6069. Mailing address for
Cliff Kuhn: History Department, Georgia State University, P.O. Box 4117,
Atlanta, GA 30302-4117.

Information on the riot and planned events is at www.1906atlantaraceriot.org.

Georgia Salzburgers

The Georgia Salzburger Society, including its Greater Atlanta chapter, has many
activities going on and several new publications. The Web site for the state
society is www.georgiasalzburgers.com, and publications are listed there. The
society and museum are at 2980 Ebenezer Road, Rincon, GA 31326. The museum ---
housed in the circa-1760s Jerusalem Church, among the oldest church buildings in
Georgia --- is open only a few days a week, so call 912-754-7001 before you go.

In 2004, the society published an expanded, four-volume set of "Georgia
Salzburgers and Allied Families," which can be found in the Georgia Room of the
central library (Marietta) of the Cobb County library system and at Washington
Memorial Library in Macon. They are working toward further translations from the
German of unpublished letters of Pastor Bolzius.

For information about the Greater Atlanta chapter, which meets twice a year
(next meeting is Sept. 24), contact president James Heidt at the state society's
address above.

Contact Kenneth H. Thomas Jr. at P.O. Box 901, Decatur, GA 30031, or the Web
site www.gagensociety.org

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Riots in India

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 165 words


To the Editor:

Re "Religious Riots Loom Over Indian Politics" (front page, July 27):

No reasonable person can condone atrocities committed by fanatics, whether Hindu
or Muslim.

Nor can one defend the alleged inaction of the government then in power in the
state of Gujarat in controlling the "religious riots" last February.

But it is a testimony to the strength of the secular nature of Indian democracy
that the riots did not spread to the rest of the country and were largely
confined to the city of Ahmedabad. In fact, Hindus and Muslims throughout India
joined hands in peaceful demonstrations against the violence.

This suggests that the underlying causes for the riots may have had little to do
with religion or religious differences, and that they may have been instigated
by politically motivated fanatics who have a vested interest in creating a gulf
between Hindus and Muslims.

YASH AGGARWAL
Executive Director, Indo-American
Political Action Committee
New City, N.Y., July 27, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

My Point

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 318 words


Adapt to the 'Singapore way'

I READ media reports on Sunday's riot with dismay ("Riot breaks out in Little
India"; yesterday). When did Singaporeans last hear of such riots'

One has to reflect whether the incident was spur-of-the-moment and sparked by
the death of an Indian national in a road accident, or a manifestation of deeper
and underlying foreign worker resentment towards the establishment or host
country.

Whatever the reasons, foreign workers need to know that they cannot import their
culture or way of life here. They must adapt to our way of living, or what
Police Commissioner Ng Joo Hee aptly termed "the Singapore way".

Meanwhile, I strongly urge Singaporeans to stand united behind our many brave
Home Team officers, some of whom were injured in the riot.

Also, kudos to the authorities for adopting a tough and resolute stance against
the rioters, and for swiftly quelling the riot and restoring law and order to
our streets.

Ibrahim Hassan

Conduct more regular patrols

I AM shocked and concerned by the riot in Little India.

Such incidents are rare in Singapore - the race riots in 1969 were the most
recent.

Sunday's riot is a very serious incident and I hope the culprits will be
severely dealt with. There is no place in our society for anyone who takes the
law into his own hands.

Foreign workers are here to make a living and they should do just that, instead
of creating trouble.

On weekends, we can see many foreign workers congregating at certain locations.
While they do create some disturbances, the situation has been relatively
peaceful so far.

But rioting has crossed the line. And because of the large number of people in
one place, all it took was one incident to spark something very serious.

I hope the police can put more men on the ground to patrol places where a large
number of foreign workers gather. They need to be visible to deter potential
troublemakers.

Goh Geok Teck

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Modi's SITcom

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 452 words


AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) has done
much more than just giving a clean chit to Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi
on allegations of his involvement in the 2002 riots. Not only does the report,
submitted by SIT chairman RK Raghavan, exonerate Modi from the criminal charge
of conspiracy and facilitating riots, it goes an extra mile to explain the
efforts of an "awfully busy" Modi to protect the riot-affected and offer them
relief and rehabilitation.

Experts say the closure report is very different in spirit than the first report
submitted by SIT member A K Malhotra, who had questioned Modi's actions on
several counts including allegedly deputing cabinet ministers in police control
rooms and his negligence towards the riot-affected . Raghavan's report claims
Modi visited Gulbarg Society and Naroda Patia, which witnessed two of the worst
massacres during the riots, and relief camps on March 5 and 6, 2002.

Stating that the Army was called in well in time, the report further says, "The
CM was awfully busy with the steps to control the law and order situation,
providing medical treatment to the riot victims, their rehabilitation, giving
ex-gratia payment to the riot affect, NGO relief camps and with the payment of
compensation for destruction of properties during the riots, and also with his
efforts to restore peace and normalcy in the state."

The closure report admits that the state government was wrong in not banning the
BJP-supported VHP bandh on February 28, 2002, but in the same breath adds it
doesn't amount to conspiracy. On charges of Modi issuing illegal instructions to
allow Hindus to vent their anger, the SIT states, "The chief minister emphasized
that miscreants (in the train carnage case) should be apprehended and not
allowed to escape. He was also concerned about the number of causalities in the
incident. The CM had given directions that steps should be taken not to delay
medical help for passengers and also to impose curfew to avoid any untoward
incident, Godhra being a communally sensitive place." The SIT has also
recommended to close the case by dubbing Zakia Jafri's complaint full of
discrepancies and vague accusations, not specific allegation against
individuals. "IPS officer Rahul Sharma is shown as accused person, though Sharma
is also the prime witness," it says.

Activists allege the SIT stand has softened on Modi's controversial speech in
Becharaji where he allegedly tried to incite sentiments with his "Hum paanch,
humare pachchis... " remark, during Gujarat Gaurav Yatra in 2002. While SIT took
a more harsh view in 2010, it decided to go easy on the remarks two years later.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

JAILED FOR PLOT TO STIR UP RIOTS USING FACEBOOK;
Father-of-two given three years

BYLINE: Mark Naylor

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words


A FACEBOOK plotter who tried to stir up riots in Grimsby at the height of the
wave of disorder across the country has been jailed for three years.

Martin Hartshorn, 22, of Comber Place, Grimsby, admitted encouraging or
assisting a riot and publishing inflammatory racist material on August 9.
Jonathan Sandiford, prosecuting, told Grimsby Crown Court that a wave of riots
and serious public disorder was sweeping through towns and cities at the time.
Police were monitoring a Facebook community page saying: "Not rioting in Grimsby
but it's already a s***hole".

At the height of the riots, Hartshorn posted a message saying: "Whose up for a
riot tonight in town?" He made racist comments, including "Let's do our riot
different.

Let's burn all the Paki shops and takeaways." He later added: "And the Islamic
centre.

We can't forget that."

Simon Hirst, mitigating, said father-of-two Hartshorn had been out of trouble
for four years. He had been watching You-Tube coverage of the riots and became
angry because he believed that much of the trouble was being caused by Asians.
He admitted he was not joking in his Facebook comments and meant what he said.
He bitterly regretted his actions and had been in custody for 83 days.

Judge David Tremberg told Hartshorn: "There is no place for such vile and
sinister racist remarks and racially inflammatory material."

Hartshorn's imprisonment comes hot on the heels of the sentencing of two men
from Cheshire, who were sent to prison for four years each after admitting to
using the site to incite disorder during the riots.

Sentencing Jordan Blackshaw, 21, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, Judge Elgan
Edwards, said he hoped the sentences would act as a deterrent to others.

And Detective Sergeant Dave Pattison, from Humberside Police, has also warned
people to take extra care when posting on social networking websites.

He said: "We have seen incidents in our area recently which have led to the
general public viewing material and taking matters into their own hands.

"This could lead to whoever posted the material facing charges for inciting that
activity, even if the outcome was not as they intended it to be.

"In this instance, Mr Hartshorne has been charged following a number of posts he
made in which he tried to influence other people in order to cause problems."

This jailing follows a high-profile incident last month in Grimsby when a gang
gathered outside the home of Jonathan Bloomfield, in Stanley Street, after
footage which allegedly showed him beating a Staffordshire Bull Terrier was
posted on Facebook.? Turn to pages eight and nine for more on the impact of
social media.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOCKED UP: Hartshorn made 'vile and sinister racist remarks'.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2011 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             May 21, 2008 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

STATE PRISON VIOLENCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 243 words


The most serious outbreaks in Oklahoma prisons:

1973: The most costly prison riot in state history breaks out at the Oklahoma
State Penitentiary. Three inmates died, and many of the buildings were burned,
resulting in $40 million in damage.

1983: A riot at the Dick Conner Correctional Center leaves one inmate dead and
more than two dozen injured. An FBI agent blamed the riot on prison
overcrowding. Food shortages and cell temperatures above 100 degrees also were
blamed.

1988: A riot burned two housing units in the Mack Alford Correctional Center in
Stringtown. Inmates captured eight prison guards during the three-day uprising.
The guards were released unharmed.

2005: Thirty-three inmates were hurt in a riot at the Dick Conner Correctional
Center in Hominy.

2005: Violence among prisoners at the Davis Correctional Facility in Holdenville
is blamed on racial tensions.

2005: One man dies after being stabbed in a riot at the Cimarron Correctional
Facility in Cushing. One of the men initially charged in participating in the
riot said he and others were being singled out because they were black.

2007: A 40-person riot breaks out at the Pittsburg County jail, leading a state
legislator to call for more funding for the state prison system.

2008: A fight at the Oklahoma State Reformatory on Monday left two prison
inmates dead and a dozen injured. The episode was characterized by a prison
official as a battle between blacks and American Indians.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

Riot researchers make a French connection

BYLINE: mike keegan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 293 words


BRITISH and French researchers are working together to prevent a repeat of the
race riots that hit Oldham and Paris.

The collaboration will see experts from the two countries looking at the
different riots, what sparked them and how to prevent them happening again.

They have already met for preliminary discussions and are due to meet in the
French capital in June for a workshop.

A website is expected to be up and running later this month and will be asking
those involved in the troubles for their input.

Dr David Waddington, of Sheffield Hallam University, and Professor Mike King of
the University of Central England in Birmingham, who looked extensively into the
causes of the Oldham riots, will share their findings with the French.

Racial tensions turned Oldham into a battleground in May 2001.

Gangs of disgruntled Asian and white men took to the streets and hundreds of
riot officers with dogs were drafted into the town.

And, in October 2005, the suburbs of Paris erupted into riots and serious
disturbances which spread right across the country. A month later almost 9,000
cars had been destroyed and 4,800 youngsters - mainly Arabic or north African -
had been arrested.

The riots were sparked by the deaths of two young men who died while hiding out
from the police.

The violence which followed culminated in a state of emergency being declared
for a short time.

Dr Waddington, said: "In recent years, there has been a growing concern in
society about the situation of young people in various ethnic minority
communities in both sides of the Channel.

"By sharing our knowledge, the British experience can provide valuable
information to the French and we can use their experiences to test and enhance
our own theories and policy."

mike.keegan@men-news.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION Glodwick in Oldham, May 2001, during the town's race riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

Riot researchers make a French connection

BYLINE: mike keegan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 293 words


BRITISH and French researchers are working together to prevent a repeat of the
race riots that hit Oldham and Paris.

The collaboration will see experts from the two countries looking at the
different riots, what sparked them and how to prevent them happening again.

They have already met for preliminary discussions and are due to meet in the
French capital in June for a workshop.

A website is expected to be up and running later this month and will be asking
those involved in the troubles for their input.

Dr David Waddington, of Sheffield Hallam University, and Professor Mike King of
the University of Central England in Birmingham, who looked extensively into the
causes of the Oldham riots, will share their findings with the French.

Racial tensions turned Oldham into a battleground in May 2001.

Gangs of disgruntled Asian and white men took to the streets and hundreds of
riot officers with dogs were drafted into the town.

And, in October 2005, the suburbs of Paris erupted into riots and serious
disturbances which spread right across the country. A month later almost 9,000
cars had been destroyed and 4,800 youngsters - mainly Arabic or north African -
had been arrested.

The riots were sparked by the deaths of two young men who died while hiding out
from the police.

The violence which followed culminated in a state of emergency being declared
for a short time.

Dr Waddington, said: "In recent years, there has been a growing concern in
society about the situation of young people in various ethnic minority
communities in both sides of the Channel.

"By sharing our knowledge, the British experience can provide valuable
information to the French and we can use their experiences to test and enhance
our own theories and policy."

mike.keegan@men-news.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION Glodwick in Oldham, May 2001, during the town's race riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

ABI Responds to Publication of Draft Riot Compensation Bill

LENGTH: 387  words


March 12 -- Following the Government's response to the Home Office's
consultation on the Reform of the Riot (Damages) Act and the publication of the
draft Riot Compensation Bill today, Mark Shepherd,

Manager of General Insurance at the ABI, comments:

"We are pleased that the Government has listened to the views expressed in the
consultation to bring an outdated Act into the modern day, and made a sensible
move forward from an arbitrary turnover cap on the type of businesses that can
claim, to a 1million per claim limit. The ABI highlighted that the previous
proposals would have left all but the smallest of firms able to claim
compensation and could have created problems for businesses taking out riot
cover as part of their property insurance.

"Although riots are rare, they can have a devastating impact on communities and
take years to recover from. This is good news for commercial lines insurers who
want to be able to help businesses have riot cover as a normal part of their
insurance."

The ABI has compared how the change from a previously proposed 2million turnover
cap to a 1 million per claim limit would have affected an event  such as the
riots that took place across England in August 2011:

* Under the revised proposals for a 1million per claim limit, we estimate that
99% of commercial property claims for material damage from the August 2011 riots
would have been fully covered by this limit.

* This compares to our estimate of only 33% of commercial property claims for
material damage during the August 2011 riots coming from businesses with a
turnover of less than 2million.

However, the ABI is still concerned about some aspects of the draft Bill:

* The draft Bill does not appear to cover loss of trade for businesses, loss of
rent for landlords, or alternative accommodation costs as a result of a riot.
This could have a serious impact on businesses or residents that have had to
cease trading or move out of their homes because of damage to their property.

* The draft Bill outlines that Police and Crime Commissioners will decide if a
disturbance constitutes a riot, however given PCCs  are essentially liable for
the cost of damage this appears to create a conflict of interest.  A more
independent determination of when a disturbance is a riot may avoid this.

Source: Association of British Insurers

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                  May 22, 2013

Croydon riots victims welcome change to 'out-of-date' law

BYLINE: Hannah Williamson and Andrew Bloss

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 461  words


Legislation set up to ensure riot victims receive compensation is to be
reviewed, as some of those affected in Croydon still wait for payouts following
the 2011 riots.

The 127-year-old Riot Damages Act will be independently reviewed by former
senior civil servant Neil Kinghan, who worked as a independent reviewer to
Wandsworth Council following the riots in August 2011.

The review aims to ensure the Riot Damages Act protects the vulnerable and
provides value for money, and will also examine the existing criteria used to
determine when compensation is payable, including how it defines a riot and who
should be liable to pay compensation.

Damian Green, Minister for Policing and Criminal Justice said: "The Riot Damages
Act was written more than a century ago and so it is only right we take action
to ensure it is fit for purpose.

"The aftermath of the 2011 riots showed the need for improvements to speed up
the payment of compensation to those who need it and weed out frivolous claims."

The announcement has been welcomed by Croydon Council and public meetings will
be organised in the borough over the next few months.

Council leader Councillor Mike Fisher said: "We recognise the frustration this
out-of-date act has caused our residents and businesses and we welcome the
government's response to our request for an independent review.

"The existing legislation originates from 1886, and is not fit for purpose.For
example it does not give the council any legal powers to challenge insurance
companies and do more to help those affected by the riots in Croydon in 2011."

In February, Croydon North MP Steve Reed, called on the Government to support
riot victims after speaking with residents who failed to receive compensation
for damage to their homes and businesses.

Bushra Ahmed, whose family's launderette and dry-cleaners Crystal Clean was
burned down during the riots, said the review was a step in the right direction.

She said: "They are obviously doing a review because it didn't work. Around 18
months on, I am slightly nearer to compensation but there are many others who
aren't.

"For whatever reason it went wrong, if we do nothing else but learn from the
mistakes that we made, it could potentially help in the future."

Steve Reed, MP for Croydon North said: "Our community was hit hard by the riots
but now, nearly two years later, many people are still waiting for the help and
compensation that was promised.

"We need a more streamlined and effective way of supporting people whose lives
are wrecked by riots instead of legislation that was passed when Queen Victoria
was on the throne.

"Too many people who were the victims of burning and looting also became the
victims of an out-dated and uncaring process when they needed help to get back
on their feet."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Nepali Times

                             April 19, 2013 Friday

What a riot

LENGTH: 592  words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, April 19 -- India's opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) simply
can't figure out why communal riots under its rule are never forgotten, while
those under Congress governments are.

This has assumed special importance as the BJP is inclined to project as its
prime ministerial candidate Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, whose alleged
fanning of the 2002 riots continues to haunt him and his party.

Indeed, it is actually the Congress that has palpably failed to control communal
hotheads from running amok periodically. Yet the party still garners a
substantial chunk of the minority as well as secular votes. Why then is it the
BJP that has the 'communal' label?

For one, a riot is an extreme manifestation of the BJP's politics which is
predicated on addressing the grievances of Hindus, real or imagined. The origin
of these grievances lie either in India's medieval past or in public policies
after independence which the party perceives as favouring minorities.

This worldview pits India's Hindus against the minorities, particularly Muslims.
In other words, the inter-community tensions signifying the abnormal in
politics, have no possibility of closure in the immediate future.?

This is stoked at state, district and India-wide levels. The Ram Janmabhoomi
movement sought to meld the Hindus into a monolith, through a demand asking
Muslims to voluntarily relinquish the Babri Masjid. There are similar demands
for the relocation of mosques abutting the Krishna and Shiv temples in Mathura
and Varanasi.

These symbols of pan-India Hindu mobilisation are augmented through disputes
over other places of worship of local significance. For variety, Christian
priests are also attacked for allegedly converting Hindus to Christianity.

In this culture of inter-community tension, fanned and allowed to simmer, the
riot is the logical culmination of an insidious process. The salience of
tension-riot in the politics of BJP is why a localised inter-community conflict
under its rule acquires a countrywide resonance. The 2002 riot of Gujarat was
horrifying because it was viewed to have been ideologically driven and,
therefore, bound to be replicated elsewhere.

By contrast, the riots under the Congress, even the ones its activists spearhead
are instrumental rather than ideological. Barring the anti-Sikh pogrom of 1984,
the riots under the Congress rarely spill beyond a parliamentary constituency or
two. The motive behind such mayhem is usually a local Congressman wanting to win
an election from a constituency, a riot or communal tension rarely becomes a
tool for political mobilisation countrywide. The 1984 riots were the exception.
Though 20 years too late, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, a Sikh himself,
apologised to the entire nation "because what took place in 1984 is the negation
of the concept of nationhood in our Constitution".

The Congress is forgiven because the riots under it are often (not always) the
handiwork of organisations belonging to the Sangh Parivar. It's a conclusion
several commissions of inquiry appointed to probe riots have reached. The
tension-riot remains the Sangh Parivar's defining strategy of achieving its
ideological goal of turning India Hindu. This is why the riots under the BJP are
remembered and not those under the Congress, which too has been guilty for the
spilling of blood and untold misery. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Nepali Times. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Himal Media Pvt. Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Reading the Riots launches Community Conversations

BYLINE: Symeon Brownguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 561 words

ABSTRACT

Guardian/LSE's groundbreaking study into last summer's disorder now holding
series of debates in riot-affected cities

FULL TEXT

Six months on from the unprecedented events of last August, the Guardian/LSE's
groundbreaking collaborative study into the disturbances is hosting a series of
grassroots debates in riot-affected cities across England.

These meetings will be open debates, organised in conjunction with local
community groups, and will be a chance for the people directly affected by the
riots to give their views about what happened in the summer and in the
aftermath.

The first debate took place this morning in Tottenham, the area of north London
which lit the spark for the riots, after an initially peaceful protest following
the police shooting of local man Mark Duggan turned violent.

The inaugural event was staged in support of the campaigning group North London
Citizens who launched their Citizens' Inquiry Report into the causes and
consequences of the riots in Tottenham. Speakers at the event included David
Lammy, the Labour MP for the area, and local children who attend school with the
children of Mark Duggan.

The first phase of the Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots research was published in
December 2011, and included interviews with around 270 people who took part in
the riots. As well as community events, phase two of the research will include
interviews with frontline police officers and those in command positions, as
well as looking at how the criminal justice system responded to these
unprecedented events.

To share your views and attend a local community conversation email
symeon.brown.casual@guardian.co.uk

Community Conversation dates

Peckham: Tuesday 21 February

In partnership with the Damilola Taylor TrustDamilola Taylor Centre, 6pm-8pm

Panellists: Gary Trowsdale CEO, Damilola Taylor Trust Jan Asante, Gizella
Boutique (affected by riots) Ben Ferguson, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Croydon: Thursday 23 February

In partnership with Croydon Voluntary Action CVA Resource Centre, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Cllr Vidhi Mohan, cabinet member for communities and big society Karen Chillman,
CVA manager Carl Neilson Rock Bottom, local business owner Yemisi Adegoke,
Croydon resident, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Birmingham: Tuesday 28 February

In partnership with the Haven Community Project The Drum, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Mukhtar Dar, film-maker and director of arts Simon Jay, Haven Community Project,
Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Liverpool: Thursday 1 March

In partnership with the Unity Community ProjectThe Unity, Toxteth, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Earl Jenkins, Unity Community Association Wally Brown, retired principle of
Liverpool College Ricky Jones, Tiber Youth Tracey Tgore, Biko Housing
Association Katinka Weber, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Community Conversation at the Faith Forum for London Conference: Monday 5 March

Stamford Bridge

Panellists:

Boris Johnson, mayor of LondonChristopher Chessun, Bishop of SouthwarkCamila
Batmanghelidjh, Kids Company

Manchester: Tuesday 6 March

In partnership with the Social Action and Research Foundation Friends Meeting
House, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Cllr Pat Karney, lead member for communities Diane Curry, Partners of Prisoners

Salford: Thursday 8 March

In partnership with the Social Action and Research Foundation 2 Pendleton
Gateway, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:Cllr John Merry, leader of Salford council

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Livingstone blames cuts for rioting;
Politics Tottenham riot

BYLINE: Mark Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 621 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE has been accused of "crass political opportunism" after he
blamed the Government's spending cuts for the Tottenham riots.

The former Labour London mayor said that the austerity drive had created a
"social division" that was forcing the police into conflict with communities.

Jenny Jones, a Green Party member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, also
said that the Government's cuts played a part in the riots.

The Metropolitan Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers,
also used the riots to highlight the effect of cuts on police officers' morale.
But they came under attack from Patrick Mercer, a Conservative MP, who said that
they were insensitive to raise the subject so soon after the riots during which
26 police officers were injured.

Mr Livingstone said: "While the first priority is to restore peace, to ensure
the safety of everyone now and in the future, it is also necessary to have a
serious discussion about why this has happened. "I am concerned that there is
growing social dislocation in London and a threat that the police will be forced
into escalating conflict with some London communities.

We do not want to go back to the 1980s.

"The economic stagnation and cuts being imposed by the Tory government
inevitably create social division. As when Margaret Thatcher imposed such
policies during her recessions, this creates the threat of people losing
control, acting in completely unacceptable ways that threaten everyone, and
culminating in events of the type we saw in Tottenham.

"Tories will issue knee-jerk statements demanding support for the police but
they are actually cutting the police. That amounts to pure hypocrisy."

Paul Deller, from the police federation, said: "Morale among the police officers
dealing with this incident, and within the police service as a whole, is at its
lowest level ever due to the constant attacks on them by the Home Secretary and
the Government in the form of the reviews into police pay and conditions.

"Despite the officers feeling let down by their political leaders, they still
acted with extreme bravery and professionalism in the face of horrific violence
shown towards them while trying to protect the community and the buildings in
the local area."

Mrs Jones said yesterday: "The Government must take some of blame for what went
wrong last night. Cuts to local services, especially youth services, played a
role in fomenting tensions."

But Mr Mercer said the timing of the statements was "hugely crass".

"With a couple of dozen police officers injured, now is not the time for
political opportunism," he said. "This is clearly a very serious situation which
our police officers need to deal with. Once it has been resolved then there may
be questions to be asked, but not until."

James Clappison, a Conservative member of the home affairs select committee,
added: "I think statements like these are entirely premature. The main focus
here should be supporting the police as they carry out a criminal investigation.
I would have thought that the first response here should not a be a political
one, but ensuring that there is a proper investigation into what is some very
serious wrongdoing."

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said: "I'm appalled at the scenes of
violence and destruction in Tottenham. The Acting Commissioner [of the Met] has
assured me that the police are doing everything they can to resolve this
situation.

"The events leading to these disturbances are rightly being investigated by the
Independent Police Complaints Commission. Harming people and property will do
nothing to facilitate the investigation; it will only make the situation worse."

Mr Johnson is away on holiday and has no plans to return to the capital.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A police car burns during Saturday's riot
Clockwise from top: Masked rioters confront the police in Tottenham on Saturday,
a fireman outside a burned out building, the aftermath of looting inside a Comet
electrical store on a retail park, and police officers on horseback during
Saturday's running battles
LEWIS WHYLD/PA WIRE/ DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES/ JOEL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            October 19, 2014 Sunday

Keene Pumpkin Festival fits trend: students rioting for no good reason;
Student riots used to be about grievances. Now, they're increasingly happening
just because parties get out of hand. That's what appeared to happen at the
Keene Pumpkin Festival Saturday.

BYLINE: Mark Sappenfield Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 532 words


Of all the events likely to set off a fully fledged student riot of car tipping,
broken signs, and open street fires, the Pumpkin Festival in Keene, N.H., would
probably not top many lists.

Yet that is precisely what happened Saturday night as an event famous for
setting a world record last year with 30,581 lit jack-o'lanterns turned into a
wild scene that ended in pepper spray, tear gas, and dozens of arrests.

The riot comes as some experts note a change in student riots. Long past are the
days when they were mostly protests or expressions of student discontent. In
recent years, it seems, many students just see them as a fun part of the college
experience.

"It's become part of - for some people - part of the male role of being a
college student," Jerry Lewis, an emeritus professor of sociology at Kent State
University in Ohio, told USA Today. "Sometime during your [college] experiences
you are supposed to ... participate in a riot."

Reports suggest that the riot began when a large party got out of hand. Keene
State University students, as well as visitors from other colleges, are thought
to have started the riot. Police managed to regain control around 1:30 a.m.

The riot fits with recent trends on college campuses, where riots have become
more spontaneous and commonplace. For example, colleges involved in this
spring's Final Four basketball tournament saw riots, as have a number of other
campuses. Some of the riots are sports-related, but many - like the ones in
Keene Saturday - appear to have no apparent cause other than students' bad
behavior spiraling out of control.

Alcohol has been cited as a catalyst for student riots, but some experts
question whether that isn't merely an excuse for students to behave badly.

"The way I think about drinking, it gives people permission to do what they
wanted to do anyway," Professor Lewis said.

That appeared to be the motivation for some Saturday.

"It's just like a rush. You're revolting from the cops," Steven French, 18, who
was visiting from Haverhill, Mass., told the Keene Sentinel. "It's a blast to do
things that you're not supposed to do."

In 2005, a year after a week-long celebration at Iowa State University turned
into a riot, sociology professor David Schweingruber surveyed one of his
classes. The results were that 24 percent of the men and 11 percent of the women
said they'd like to participate in a riot during college. Some 49 percent of men
and 28 percent of women said they'd like to watch a riot during college.

He noted that his survey was a small sample size and not scientific, but he also
noted that the number of nonprotest campus riots in 1985 was fewer than five. By
2002, it was up to 30.

"If a lot of people want to riot, there's not a lot we can do to stop it,"
Professor Schweingruber told the Iowa State Daily.

For some, the culture even appears to be becoming a badge of pride. Earlier this
year, Barstool Sports, a blog for college men, boasted: "No campus is safe. No
ice cream truck is safe. It's total mayhem in our country's colleges. I dare
somebody to have a normal old-fashioned party without it turning into a
full-scale riot with rubber bullets and pepper spray balls flying. You can't."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Documentary sheds light on Amit Shah's link in Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 221  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Gopal Menon's documentary The Killing Fields of Muzaffarnagar, that was screened
at St Xavier's college in Ahmedabad on Tuesday, shows incidents behind riots in
Muzaffarnagar, pointing out that riots were instigated by right-wing Hindu
politicians after Gujarat minister Amit Shah was sent to UP for Lok Sabha
elections. The 50-minute documentary showed lives of riot-affected families
living in refugee camps. The Supreme Court has taken into cognizance Menon's
documentary as one of the five DVDs submitted to the apex court by petitioners
seeking justice to show the incidents of riots.

After the screening, Menon told this newspaper, "Muzaffarnagar has a history of
keeping peace. There was not a single clash reported in the wake of the
Partition or during the Babri Masjid demolition. However, a small motorbike
accident between two boys of two communities led to such a big riot? All local
politicians who called for sabhas before riots were in the Shah's shadow. The
riots were manufactured by them to settle their feet in UP before elections."

The documentary has live footage of panchayat sabhas, with politicians inciting
communities.  Menon said, "We've also spoken to a local group prepared in UP
called 'Narendra Modi Army' that was one of the most active groups that
committed atrocities on Muslims during the riots."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Band striking a blow for freedom;
Pussy Riot ; Opinion

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 269 words


I STRONGLY disagree with Rick Martin's letter in the Post on the 21st August
regarding Pussy Riot's imprisonment.

The Russian authorities should not be applauded for carrying out what was
obviously a show trial. The Draconian sentencing was a statement made by the
ruling clique of Russia that dissent against the country's "managed democracy"
would not be tolerated.

I take issue with the point Mr Martin said about the "older and religiously
devout" being traumatised by Pussy Riot's protest. You need only take a glance
at Russia's modern history to see economic collapse, enforced atheism, war,
terrorism and the chaotic collapse of a police state. Amid all of this I am sure
many elderly Russian worshippers would have seen more disturbing sights than
Pussy Riot. To dismiss Pussy Riots' protest as disrespectful religion is to miss
the point of their protest entirely. Pussy Riot chose the cathedral in question
as a venue because of alleged support that members of the hierarchy of the
Russian Orthodox Church had given to Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the
Pres-idential office. So far I haven't heard any messages from the hierarchy to
object to the authorities' over-reac-tion.

I find it ironic that Mr Martin's remedy for the alleged ills for Pussy Riot is
to force these feminists to read a book promoting patriarchy. As an atheist I
find his assertion offensive that a lack of religious leaning breeds bad
behaviour. I commend the efforts of Pussy Riot to strike a blow for freedom. It
is they who should be applauded, not the Thug-in-chief Putin and his minions in
the Russian gover nment.

Zachary Barker

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ? The band Pussy Riot in court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TPO


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 12, 2016 Friday

'Violence echoes deadly unrest of 1966

BYLINE: Eddie Lee

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws city news 02.pgl; Pg.3

LENGTH: 366 words


The mayhem on Monday night was reminiscent of the 1966 riots in Hong Kong, said
a former senior policeman who witnessed the deadly unrest 50 years ago.

"The Mong Kok riot and the chain of events that led to the turmoil in 1966 had
many things in common," said James Elms, a police inspector in the 1960s who
retired in 1996 as a senior superintendent.

He noted that both incidents were characterised by mass participation of young
people, who mostly responded to their peers' call for action. They were
similarly disappointed at government policy as well as the political system at
the time in which they lived, the 72-year-old said.

"The young people might not have the same objectives from the outset but they
all took the same action later," said Elms, citing another resemblance across
the generations. He believed at least some of the attacks this week were
premeditated, as was the case five decades ago.

The riot in 1966, triggered by the colonial government's decision to increase
ferry fares, resulted in one death and the arrest of more than 1,800 people.
Unrest a year later, stemming from mounting tensions between the colonial
government and leftists, caused greater casualties and claimed 51 lives. Some
1,936 people were convicted for offences committed during the 1967 riots.

Chaos of such severity remained uncommon in the city in the ensuing years, but
the anti-riot provisions of the Public Order Ordinance used against people
nabbed after the Mong Kok riot have been applied at times.

More than 20 inmates were convicted under the law and jailed for taking part in
a riot at the Hei Ling Chau Addiction Treatment Centre in June 2000.

According to the ordinance, an unlawful assembly is a riot when a participant
commits "a breach of the peace". The offence carries a maximum jail term of 10
years.

The United Kingdom and Australia have comparable anti-riot laws. While a person
guilty of riot is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
10 years in the UK, the maximum in New South Wales is 15 years.

Law scholars and authoritative legal texts note that, for conviction, there must
be proof of unlawful assembly and of violence or the threat of violence by
rioters.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Pakistan: BJP dismisses Rahul Gandhi's allegations of Narendra Modi abetting
Gujarat riots

LENGTH: 366  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 31 -- Indian main opposition party BJP has dismissed Rahul
Gandhi's declaration that while the 2002 riots in Gujarat were abetted by the
state government, the Congress government in Delhi tried its best to check the
1984 riots in Delhi. Mr Gandhi's remark was an accusation levelled against
Narendra Modi, the Chief Minister of Gujarat who is running for Prime Minister.

Gandhi, tapped to lead the Congress party's campaign for the national election,
sought in a television interview last night to distinguish between what
transpired in Gujarat, where hundreds of Muslims were killed, and the communal
violence that erupted against Sikhs in Delhi after his grandmother Indira Gandhi
was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards while she was Prime Minister.

"The Gujarat riots were unfortunate but 1984 riots were a genocide. 1984 was a
genocide and pre-planned, it was executed by the ruling government," said BJP
spokesperson Prakash Javadekar, challenging Mr Gandhi's version of events.
"Rajiv Gandhi justified the genocide," he added, referring to Mr Gandhi's father
who became the prime minister after Indira Gandhi was assassinated. He was
killed by a suicide bomber in 1991.

Though Mr Gandhi, 43, has not been named as the Congress' choice for Prime
Minister, the election is being seen as a direct contest between him and Modi.

"The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984,
the government was trying to stop the riots... in Gujarat, the opposite was the
case. The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots
further," the Congressman said last night.

When asked if he agreed with the Prime Minister, who recently held Mr Modi
responsible for "the massacre of innocent citizens," Mr Gandhi said, "The
Gujarat riots took place, people died, Mr. Narendra Modi was in charge of
Gujarat at that point,"

A Supreme Court investigation has cleared Mr Modi of charges of complicity in
the riots, and a court recently upheld that report

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 14, 2003

FIVE men who took part in the Oldham riots have been sentenced to a total of
more than 17 years behind bars.

BYLINE: Blaise tapp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 284 words



FIVE men who took part in the Oldham riots have been sentenced to a total of
more than 17 years behind bars.  Mohammed Waseem, 20, of Greenhill Terrace,
Oldham, received the longest sentence of four-and-a-half years after being
convicted of riot. Waseem was on probation for a public order offence and on
conditional discharge for another at the time of the riots, which led to his
lengthier sentence.  Qadir Hussain, 21, of Alexandra Road in Glodwick, and
Sarfraz Khan, 24, of Savoy Street, Glodwick, both received three-and-a-half
years after pleading guilty to riot last year.  Hussain's brother, 26-year-old
Shaukat Ali, was sentenced last year to five years imprisonment after pleading
guilty to being involved in the riots.  Jamil Hussain, 23, of Park Road, in
Glodwick, was sentenced to three years after he admitted throwing missiles
during one of the nights when disorder occurred.  Mohammed Ayub, 25, of Bolton
Street, in Glodwick, was sentenced to two years and nine months after he pleaded
guilty to riot.  The total number of people dealt with in connection with the
outbreak of disorder last May has now risen to 21. They have been sentenced to a
total of 67 years.

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Bottomley said: "The investigation and
conclusion of the Oldham riots has now continued into a third year as the town
continues to rebuild.  "The effects of what occurred that weekend in May 2001
have not been forgotten, nor will those responsible go unpunished.

"Twenty-one men have now been sentenced for their involvement in a long weekend
of violence, arson and assault. "We will continue to help bring to justice
anyone else who played a part in the Oldham riots."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MISSILE: Jamil Hussain; RIOT: Mohammed Ayub; RIOT: Mohammed Waseem;
RIOT: Qadir Hussain

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News


                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riot law reform will help firms survive;
Small businesses offered 'new for old' payouts in easier claim process

BYLINE: Martin Bentham

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 489 words


A MAJOR overhaul of riot laws will make it easier for small businesses in London
to receive proper compensation after future disturbances. A report commissioned
by Home Secretary Theresa May says businesses affected by riots should receive
"new for old" compensation and that compensation for damage to vehicles should
be provided for the first time.

Other key recommendations include making it easier to apply for compensation and
the creation of a Home Officebacked "claims bureau" staffed by insurance
industry experts.

However, large firms will lose out because of a plan to cap payouts to prevent
huge awards such as the £70 million a judge recently told the Met to give Sony
for the destruction of its Enfield warehouse in the 2011 riots.

Unveiling the report today, policing minister Damian Green said the proposals to
the Riot Damages Act were "sensible" and signalled that many would be
implemented after a public consultation. In an article for the Evening Standard
on this page, he says that ministers want to help small firms and that
substantial changes were needed to the "antiquated" Act, which became law in
1886.

The report, produced for the Home Office by Neil Kinghan, a former senior civil
servant and director of the Local Government Association, also calls on local
authorities to draw up emergency plans "for a riot-recovery service to provide
co-ordinated advice and support" to those affected by disorder. Interim payments
before claims are settled in full are also proposed. Mr Kinghan calls on
ministers to "allow flexibility" so that payments received by victims from
charities "or other nonpublic sector bodies" are not used as a reason to reduce
the compensation awarded. Power to rule on whether a riot has occurred in the
capital - and whether compensation payments can be made by the taxpayer - will
be given to the deputy mayor for policing, who will be required to seek advice
from the Met and make a decision within seven days of the disorder.

Unveiling his report, Mr Kinghan said that victims and the worst affected areas
were still suffering the consequences of the riots and that legal changes were
needed to minimise the impact of any future disorder.

"I hope that riots will not occur again," he said. "But it is essential that we
should learn from the events that followed the riots." Today's report reveals
that taxpayers have paid £35.2million under the Riot Damages Act relating to the
2011 riots, but that this could "still grow to £100 million" or more.

Many affected businesses have complained that legislation has proved
bureaucratic and that payouts have been insufficient to cover losses.

Under the proposed reforms, police will remain liable to pay compensation after
riots. The Home Office will be expected to continue to reimburse forces if the
bill spirals.

'I hope riots will not occur again. But it is essential that we should learn
from the events that followed' Report author Neil Kinghan

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: London burning: a man takes a photograph of a policeman in Hackney
during the 2011 riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday

Riot insurance law to be reviewed

LENGTH: 297  words


A LAW which provides for compensation to victims of rioting damage is to be
updated in the wake of the 2011 riots. A government spokesman said The Riot
Damages Act will be "independently reviewed to ensure it protects the vulnerable
and provides value for money." The review will examine criteria determining when
compensation is payable, including how it defines a riot and who should be
liable. The Rt Hon Damian Green, Minister for Policing and Criminal Justice,
said last week: "The Riot Damages Act was written more than a century ago and so
it is only right that we take action to ensure it is fit for purpose. "The
aftermath of the 2011 riots showed the need for improvements to speed up the
payment of compensation to those who need it and weed out frivolous claims."


Former senior civil servant Neil Kinghan will lead the review, which is expected
to be finished by September.
The government says nationally the "vast majority" of claims from the August
2011 riots have been decided.
However, The Advertiser revealed in March that politicians are aware of as many
as 40 outstanding cases in Croydon.
The London Assembly has welcomed the review.
John Biggs AM, Chair of the London Assembly's Budget and Performance Committee,
said the act was "crying out for reform."
He added: "Last year, following an in-depth investigation, we warned that the
act was not meeting the needs of riot-hit traders and we are pleased that the
Government is acting on our concerns.
"It is ridiculous that in the 21st Century we are stuck with a piece of
legislation from 1886 that does not adequately define a riot or cover damage to
cars and vans.
"The Government's new review must address these weaknesses and provide a
significantly more efficient and streamlined act, that works in the modern
world."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Northern Daily Leader

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

THE heroic efforts of an Inverell senior

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 257 words


THE heroic efforts of an Inverell senior constable in the forefront of violent
riots in Sydney were recognised at an awards ceremony yesterday. Senior
Constable Peta Hawke received three awards at the Inverell ceremony for her
service.

In two of the awards she was commended for her bravery and dedication as an
operational support group officer during the Cronulla and Macquarie Fields riots
in 2005. During the riots, which went on for more than two weeks, police were
subjected to beatings and pelted with bottles, rocks and other missiles. At the
time, Senior Constable Hawke was serving in the Hunter Valley and was called to
riot squad duty in Sydney. She is now based in Inverell, where she says she
enjoys the country lifestyle. The 34-year-old has been a police officer for 11
years and yesterday told The Leader she was "feeling good" about her award. "I
was mostly involved in the Macquarie Fields riots," she said. "It was one of the
only times we've worn the full riot squad outfit with the shield and helmet."
She said it was a good opportunity to build skills for public-order incidents,
in case they were needed again. Senior Constable Hawke said she'd recommend
policing as a career, especially in the country. "I enjoy not knowing what's
going to happen day to day," she said. "It's not an office job and you get to
speak to people. I like the public relations side of it. I enjoy the lifestyle
of country policing and the people. You make a bit more of a difference in a
small community and you see the effects of your work."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMENDED: Inverell Senior Constable Peta Hawke with her three awards
yesterday. 291111GOA47

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

BBC Monitoring quotes from Indonesian press 9 Aug 11

LENGTH: 351 words


The following is a selection of quotes from editorials and commentaries
published in 9 August editions of Indonesian newspapers available to BBC
Monitoring.

London riots

Semarang's Suara Merdeka (www.suaramerdeka.com): "Arson and riots in north
London, precisely in the area of Tottenham, have shocked us all... The scale of
unrest has not abated but intensified... Given the background of the riots, it
seems clear that the sentiment of racism is a major factor triggering the London
riots... The riots in London should be a reflection of all parties because it
turns out that contemporary development and technological advances are still
facing difficulty to form a multicultural and inclusive civilization..."
(Editorial)

US debt

Jakarta's Kompas (www.kompas.com): "It appears that financial turmoil triggered
by the US debt crisis will not be over soon... The impact of the US crisis has
become a kind of touchstone for the resilience of our economy. Our challenge is
not just maintaining the pace of growth, but also reducing our economic
vulnerability..." (Editorial)

Jakarta's Seputar Indonesia (www.seputar-indonesia.com): "Banking supervision in
the United States has become a spotlight since the crisis in 2008.
Nationalization of several large banks in the US has also brought banking
supervision into the public domain... Transparency in the banking supervision
system has also become a serious issue..." (Achmad Deni Daruri, director
president of Centre for Banking Crisis)

Papua (Irian Jaya)

Kompas: "The series of ongoing violence in Papua has caused widespread
concern... Directly or indirectly, the series of violence was always linked with
the threat of separatist movements in Indonesia's easternmost region is. The
ongoing violence in Papua involves the overlapping of structural and cultural
aspects... The government should be fully committed to creating welfare, peace,
tranquility, and avoiding all forms of violence. Acts of violence and repression
would only attract the world's attention and could even encourage the
internationalization of the Papua issue..." (Editorial)

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Race riot to haunt Howard overseas

BYLINE: Patrick Walters

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407  words


Kuala Lumpur

JOHN Howard flies into Kuala Lumpur today for the inaugural East Asia Summit
with the Cronulla race riots front-page news in Malaysian newspapers.

The TV networks also aired graphic footage of Sunday's melee as the country
hosted the annual ASEAN leaders summit yesterday and prepared for tomorrow's
16-nation gathering, which includes India, Australia and New Zealand.

Kuala Lumpur's leading English-language newspaper, the New Straits Times,
featured the riots with the caption ''Race riot Down Under'', while
Malay-language newspapers gave the story similar coverage.

The Philippines's media also followed suit. ''Racial riot breaks out on Aussie
beach'', reported The Manila Times.

In Hong Kong, The Standard newspaper reported ''Race riot flares in Sydney''.

The story even featured in papers as far afield as London, where The Times
carried the headline ''Battle on beach as mob vow to defend 'Aussie way of
life'''.

The Middle East-based al-Jazeera TV network showed footage of the mayhem and ran
a story on its website headlined ''Race riots spread in Sydney'', with a picture
captioned ''Drunken thugs on the rampage''.

The startling images of NSW police wielding batons at Cronulla went to air as
thousands of officials and journalists converged on Kuala Lumpur for the annual
ASEAN summit meetings and tomorrow's East Asia leaders meeting.

They also came a day after Singapore's Sunday Times ran a highly critical
two-page probe into Australia's drug menace and light drug laws, with the
headline ''Haven for druggies and taxpayers pay for it''.

The article in the government-controlled media comes just weeks after Australian
media lambasted Singapore for its hardline stance on Melbourne man Nguyen Tuong
Van, who was hanged for drug-trafficking earlier this month.

Mr Howard will spend just 30 hours in Kuala Lumpur, with the East Asia Summit
expected to discuss security and energy issues and produce a declaration that
will set the future direction of the 16-nation forum.

Yesterday, he sought to play down expectations about how much would flow from
the inaugural gathering, saying it would not supplant APEC as the principal
regional forum covering economic and political interaction.

He dismissed statements last week by former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir
Mohamad that Australia should not have been included in the East Asia grouping,
saying ''those noises were anecho of the past rather than the future''.


World -- Page 9

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Additional reporting: AAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday

Eight people have been arrested by the Bedford police for rioting in a
residential area.

LENGTH: 263  words


Eight people have been arrested for rioting in a residential area in New
Hampshire. Bedford police arrested the rioters.

The police got the information about the rioting from a resident in Curtis Court
that atleast eight people are rioting.

Upon arrival, police found 13 people gathering in the driveway and the road,
some armed with metal pipes, knives, and a handgun. Preliminary investigation
revealed eight people had gathered outside the residence to confront the tenants
of the home.

The suspect believed to be responsible for orchestrating, identified as
23-year-old Jeffrey Riley of Bedford, was found to be armed with a loaded
handgun and wearing a bulletproof vest. He was charged with felony riot and
felonious use of body armor. Riley was released on bail and will appear in court
at a later date.

The following were also arrested and charged:

Anthony Perkins-Brainard, 24, of Hudson. Charged with felony riot and felony
criminal threatening with the use of a deadly weapon.

Kevin Hardy, 43, of Manchester. Charged with felony riot.

Christopher Lombard, 37, of Derry. Charged with Misdemeanor A Riot and
possession of a controlled drug.

Rachel Hamilton, 26, of Hudson. Charged with Misdemeanor A Riot.

Jeremy Champagne, 23, of Bedford. Charged with Misdemeanor A Riot.

Jason Wildes, 40, of Salem. Charged with Misdemeanor A Riot.

Alexandra Boule, 22, of Manchester, Charged with Misdemeanor A Riot.

The police are still investigating on this case and the public is asked to
contact at 603-472-5113 if they have any information regarding this issue. 2016
Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver riot probe cost police force $2M

BYLINE: Susan Lazaruk, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Investigating the 2011 hockey riot has cost Vancouver police $2 million in
overtime and other additional costs.

And the police department, which has dedicated between 50 and 70 officers and
staff from other departments to its riot squad since June 15, said it spent
another $5 million, mostly on base salaries, on what it called the largest
investigation of its kind in Canadian history.

But those were costs the Vancouver police would have spent anyway, said the head
of the riot squad, Insp. Les Yeo, in the first public accounting of the costs of
policing the riot.

Other area police forces spent $2 million on staff salaries for those who worked
on the investigation, again from their regular budgets, he said.

"The amount we (police) spent that we wouldn't have spent if there was no riot
was $2 million," said Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu after the monthly police
board meeting on Wednesday.

Vancouver police have recovered about $1 million from the provincial government,
he said.

Yeo estimated the damage amounted to $3 million from the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals to the Boston Bruins.

There was damage to 89 businesses and 113 vehicles, a third of which were police
vehicles, said Yeo.

The investigation involved going through 5,500 hours of video and investigators
tagged 15,000 different criminal acts, involving 65,000 different people.

To date, 508 charges have been recommended, 175 of them against rioters, and the
Crown has approved 225 charges, including 85 against rioters. He said officers
are in the process of recommending 100 more charges.

Three people have pleaded guilty and "there are more to come," said Yeo.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Jaitley Lauds Modi for Riot-free Decade

BYLINE: OUR POLITICAL BUREAU NEW DELHI

SECTION: POLITICAL THEATRE

LENGTH: 263 words



HIGHLIGHT: BJP leader blames rivals for keeping issue alive


In a bid to rid Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and the party of the ghosts
of the post-Godhra riots,the BJP has blamed Modi's opponents for reviving sad
memories from the past.In an article "Gujarat-Ten Years After 2002",BJP leader
Arun Jaitley praised the role of the Modi government over the past "riot-free"
decade saying that the chief minister and the government overcame various odds
to embark on an "unprecedented" growth story."Gujarat now has had a riot-free
decade.It has tried to move away from the past.It has embarked upon a road to
economic growth.The tragedy of Gujarat is that since Modi's opponents can't
defeat him politically,they hide behind NGOs and a section of the media.One can
only hope the judiciary keeps out of this political thicket and remains even
handed," he said.The article also alleged that while the media has ignored the
1984 anti-Sikh riots in which convictions were "negligible",it continues to
highlight the 2002 riots.He counts the 2002 events among the "major riots" and
expresses the hope that the "unfortunate events will never be repeated".He said
the memories of 2002 were revived by elements whose relevance existed in
reviving sad memories of the past."The NGOs which are actively campaigning
against Gujarat in the past 10 years have simultaneously pleaded for those who
burnt the Sabarmati Express which started the sordid saga of 2002.The UPA
government chose to appoint a carefully chosen retired judge of the Supreme
Court to opine in an inquiry that the fire in the Sabarmati Express started from
inside," Jaitley said.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Jaitley Lauds Modi for Riot-free Decade

BYLINE: OUR POLITICAL BUREAU NEW DELHI

SECTION: POLITICAL THEATRE

LENGTH: 243 words


In a bid to rid Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and the party of the ghosts
of the post-Godhra riots,the BJP has blamed Modi's opponents for reviving sad
memories from the past.In an article "Gujarat-Ten Years After 2002",BJP leader
Arun Jaitley praised the role of the Modi government over the past "riot-free"
decade saying that the chief minister and the government overcame various odds
to embark on an "unprecedented" growth story."Gujarat now has had a riot-free
decade.It has tried to move away from the past.It has embarked upon a road to
economic growth.The tragedy of Gujarat is that since Modi's opponents can't
defeat him politically,they hide behind NGOs and a section of the media.One can
only hope the judiciary keeps out of this political thicket and remains even
handed," he said.The article also alleged that while the media has ignored the
1984 anti-Sikh riots in which convictions were "negligible",it continues to
highlight the 2002 riots.He counts the 2002 events among the "major riots" and
expresses the hope that the unfortunate events will never be repeated."The NGOs
which are actively campaigning against Gujarat in the past 10 years have
simultaneously pleaded for those who burnt the Sabarmati Express which started
the sordid saga of 2002.The UPA government chose to appoint a carefully chosen
retired judge of the Supreme Court to opine in an inquiry that the fire in the
Sabarmati Express started from inside," Jaitley said.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

BJP, SAD slam Rahul remarks on Gujarat, 1984 anti-Sikh riots

LENGTH: 536  words

DATELINE: New Delhi,amritsar


The BJP and SAD on Tuesday attacked Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi for his
comments Monday on the 2002 post-Godhra and 1984 anti-Sikh riots during an
interview with Times Now.



The BJP refuted Rahul's remarks alleging complicity of the Gujarat government
during the Godhra riots while rejecting similar suggestions regarding the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. The BJP asserted that the Gujarat administration led by
Narendra Modi ensured the victims got justice while charging the Congress of
denying justice to the victims of anti-Sikh violence.

"The slogan 'Khoon ka badla khoon' was raised on the afternoon of October 31,
1984 at AIIMS, where Mrs Gandhi's body lay. Congress leaders were seen leading
the mobs and Sikhs were massacred at thousands of places," Leader of Opposition
in Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley said.

"What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv Gandhi - 'When
big tree falls, the earth shakes'," BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad highlighted
while addressing a press conference.

The BJP sought to take a moral high ground pointing that not only did Narendra
Modi get a clean chit but the state administration also effectively dealt with
the post-Godhra riots and subsequent prosecution. In contrast, it highlighted,
that the victims of 1984 anti-Sikh violence are still waiting for justice.

Ravi Shankar Prasad summed Rahul's interview as a "performance of evasion, which
was amateurish, rank falsehood and unfortunately of rank ignorance" of "a leader
unsure of himself" whose "inadequacies" were displayed during the interaction.

Meanwhile, SAD attacked Rahul for his comments that the Congress government had
tried to stop the 1984 riots in Delhi. SAD president and Punjab deputy CM
Sukhbir Singh Badal urged the whole (Sikh) community to boycott Congress after
the "admission" by "all in all of the party" that some party leaders were
involved in 1984 riots.

He added that the court should take suo motu notice of Rahul's statement and
immediately register a case.

The SAD chief added: "I was watching Rahul's interview where he says the then
Congress government tried to stop riots. The fact is that government did not
stop but supported the riots." Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal also
demanded a resolution in Parliament by the Congress apologising for the 1984
riots.

'Post-Godhra riots were orchestrated'

NEW DELHI: The Congress Tuesday came out in full support of party vice-president
Rahul Gandhi's views and his contrast of the 1984 and 2002 riots arguing that
while the 84 riots were a "spontaneous" reaction, the post-Godhra riots were
orchestrated.

The Congress also pointed out that the Supreme Court had moved hundreds of
trials in riot cases out of Gujarat in a clear "vote of no confidence" on the
state government as it was felt that "impartial, fair dispensation of justice"
cannot happen under Modi's watch. On the other hand, there were around 442
convictions in connection with the 1984 riots. Party spokesperson Abhishek Manu
Singhvi, however, parried questions on whether the party has acted against
Congressmen found involved in the 84 riots merely pointing out that the
political careers of ministers and very senior Congress leaders have had an
adverse effect. ENS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday

Historian discusses black resistance

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 656 words


Much of the 1908 Springfield race riot story still remains untold, including how
many of the city's black residents repelled white rioters by organizing armed
fronts, according to a historian who spoke at a downtown history symposium
Saturday.

"Generally, in a lot of race-riot stories, when resistance is present,
oftentimes black resistance is viewed as black retaliation," said Anthony
Landis, during a presentation he gave in the auditorium of the Howlett Building
as part of the Illinois Historical Society's symposium on "The African-American
Experience in Illinois."

It may have been easier for the white establishment to resume the status quo
after a race riot because it believed black residents had retaliated and sought
revenge against their attackers.

But black residents were merely defending themselves, Landis said. Justice still
needed to be served.

Typically, said Landis, a 1990 Southeast High School graduate who is now an
assistant director for the Ohio Board of Regents, race-riot scholarship examines
the causes and participants of race riots.

But Landis, who contributed a 5,000-word essay on the riot for the 2006
"Encyclopedia of American Race Riots," said he is trying to plot new ground by
focusing on targets of race riots.

"Who were these black people who wanted to defend their lives, their property?
What kind of lives did they lead within the city? What were their values? Who
was this (black) community?" Landis said.

Summing up his master's thesis about African-American organized resistance
during the 1908 Springfield riot, Landis described a black community in
Springfield that relied on several layers of social networking, lessons learned
from other riots that had recently taken place and even military tactics some of
Springfield's black veterans had mastered years earlier.

Such evidence also led Landis to challenge a popular perception that thousands
of blacks fled Springfield during the riots (there only were about 2,900 to
begin with). Landis also questions the performance of the state militia called
to Springfield by Gov. Charles Deneen.

When the rioting broke out, after a mob's attempt to lynch two black inmates was
thwarted, many black residents organized armed neighborhood patrols and placed
sharp-shooting squads in strategic places, according to oral history and
newspaper accounts.

As a result of such actions, many neighborhoods were kept safe, Landis said.

Still, by the end of the two-day riot that August, more than 40 black homes and
businesses were destroyed, two black men were lynched and several white rioters
had been killed. Nationwide reaction to the event inspired the formation of the
NAACP.

After the riot, many in the black community had high expectations that the
justice system would punish the rioters.

The 108 indictments issued were encouraging, as were passionate claims by many
white business leaders who pledged their full cooperation on the witness stand.

In the end, though, only one person was convicted - of petty larceny. Many of
those who offered their testimony suddenly couldn't remember names and faces.

The city was beginning to sweep the riot under the rug. By the following year,
blacks were banned from the elaborate Abraham Lincoln banquet in 1909 that
celebrated Lincoln's 100th birthday.

"I grew up here in Springfield. I never even heard of the riot," Landis said. "I
think one time - I'm probably about 8 or 9 years old - my dad had mentioned to
me that he had heard that some black people had been lynched over at Douglas
Park during the riot. But that's all he really knew about it. When I did my
research I never found any evidence saying blacks were lynched over there in
that area."

"We don't want to lose that history," Landis said. "Good, bad or indifferent,
it's still our history. And we have to live with it. And we have to accept it.
But I think there's still a healing process that needs to go on in the midst of
that."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday

Remembering the race riot

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 631 words


THE SPRINGFIELD Race Riot of 1908 is not an event that this city celebrates, nor
is it a part of history that Springfield ignores.

How exactly to commemorate the darkest chapter in Springfield history has long
been a vexing and divisive topic. Springfield's pride over being the hometown of
The Great Emancipator adds a layer of conflict that has made the issue even more
difficult. With the centenary of the riot only three years away, devising a
fitting commemoration will present a challenge for Springfield and will
certainly place the Springfield Race Riot squarely back in the news. While the
race riot is part of Springfield's local history, it also proved to be an event
of long-lasting national import in that it was a catalyst in the formation of
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

SPRINGFIELD'S efforts to properly recognize the race riot have drawn criticism
over the years because of their inconclusiveness and slow pace. Last April, the
Internet offshoot of the political magazine The Nation carried an article
headlined, "The Lincoln Museum and Springfield's Shame," that chastised
Springfield for celebrating its Lincoln history at the expense of the less
tourism-friendly history of the race riot. The article took particular issue
with the removal of historical markers that marked significant sites of the
Springfield Race Riot and that had been temporarily removed during construction
of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

"(S)hortly after ground was broken for the museum, construction workers removed
those markers to make way for the new buildings," wrote Adrian Brune. "A couple
of those markers went back up recently, but not the one that once stood where
the back corner of the library is today. The city plans to re-install the
monument but still hasn't figured out where to put it."

WE HATE to rain on the parade of guilt Brune has marched into Springfield, but
those historical markers are about to be replaced (one is being rebuilt, the
other had been misplaced during storage). More importantly, the director of the
Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau is among those forming a group to
plan an appropriate commemoration for the race riot's 100th anniversary in
August 2008.

Implicit in the arguments of those who have criticized Springfield for not doing
more to recognize the Springfield Race Riot has always been a belief that
Springfield wants to ignore and forget this part of its history and focus solely
on the more positive and lucrative Lincoln connection. The fact that the race
riot does not receive more Lincolnesque treatment, they imply, is evidence of a
deeply ingrained racism unique to Springfield.

Such arguments are unfair and uninformed.

THE REAL PROBLEM in Springfield's handling of the race riot has been logistical.
How do you memorialize an event that happened in places that no longer exist?
Little Rock, Ark., turned Central High School - site of some of the ugliest,
most enduring images of the civil rights movement - into the Little Rock Central
High School National Historic Site. The Springfield Race Riot has no such focal
point; no buildings from the two-day riots remain. Efforts to memorialize the
Springfield Race Riot also have suffered from lack of any impending deadline.
Until now.

The return of the historical markers along the race riot's route should be
viewed as step one in a process that will culminate three years from now on the
riot's 100th anniversary. This no doubt is an anniversary that will not be
pleasant to mark. Planning and executing events that will recognize the
Springfield Race Riot's place in local and national history presents a
formidable challenge that, after years of delays, this city appears to have
embraced.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2005 The State Journal-Register

                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                              March 7, 2016 Monday

Muzaffarnagar riots panel report: BJP demands CBI probe

LENGTH: 276  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 7 -- BJP on Monday demanded a CBI probe into the Muzaffarnagar
riots even as it termed the one-man judicial commission's report as an attempt
to cover up the role of the Samajwadi Party government in the conflagration.


 The party said the SP government is the "main culprit" in the riots which were
"triggered" by its leaders for its "vote bank politics".
 "The SP government is responsible for riots. It is the main accused. Its vote
bank politics fuelled the riots. If it had taken effective action against the
accused involved in killing two youths, then violence would not have erupted,"
the party's national secretary Shrikant Sharma said.
 The Akhilesh Yadav government should order a CBI probe into the riots, he said.

 Sharma alleged that Azam Khan, a minister in the UP government, used his
influence for securing the release of the people responsible for killing two
youths which added to the unrest and violence.
 He said the state government had learnt no lesson from the riots as communal
incidents continue to occur across the state on a daily basis.
 "People will teach the government a lesson during elections," Sharma said.
 Uttar Pradesh will have Assembly poll early next year.
 The one-man judicial commission of inquiry that went into the 2013
Muzaffarnagar communal riots has concluded that intelligence failure and laxity
on the part of police led to the violence that left 62 people dead but is silent
on the role of the Akhilesh Yadav government in the conflagration.
 700-page report of the Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission also accused the media
of putting out exaggerated reports and spreading rumours that fuelled violence.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday
                                  Pune Edition

All 3 riot-accused in west UP win big

BYLINE: TEAM TOI

SECTION: DANCE OF DEMOCRACY

LENGTH: 276 words


Muzaffarnagar: The Muzaffarnagar riots and the polarization that followed worked
wonders for BJP.The party won all the 10 seats in western UP that polled on
April 7.Among them were the three riot-accused,Sanjeev Baliyan (Muzaffarnagar
),Kunwar Bhartendra Singh (Bijnor) and Hukum Singh (Kairana ).They all beat
their nearest rival by a huge margin.All three were accused of inciting communal
passions during mahapanchayat that preceded the riots in Muzaffarnagar eight
months ago.Not many were surprised when Sanjeev Baliyan won by close to 4 lakh
votes,with the Muslim votes splitting between SP,BSP and RLD.Muslims were the
most disillusioned.Mohd Saleem,a tailor,said,"This time Muslims could not decide
which way to vote and this led to the split of votes among SP,BSP and RLD."
Blaming a lack of alternatives,Usman Ali said,"What choice did I have? SP will
still remain in power for another three years.If I do not vote for the SP
candidate then whom do I vote? BJP?"

But Surendra Sharma,an advocate,blamed SP squarely for the way they handled the
riots."Police were doing their job to control the riots in September last year
and yet the DM and SSP were transferred because they dared to arrest the
culprits in the first place," he said.Others were less circumspect in their
analysis of the result.Says Naresh Tyagi,a businessman,"Corruption and lack of
development were certainly the issues here before the riots began,but after that
it became a matter of compulsion for Hindus to vote for BJP.And,there are solid
reasons for that.Take,for example,all the areas which are close to Muslim
settlements.It is difficult for our women to even venture out."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Revisiting the riots of '93

BYLINE: Sharmila Ganesan-Ram TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 308 words


Twenty years later,why should we remember the Mumbai riots of 1992-93 ?" asked
author Naresh Fernandes,setting the tone for a discussion on 'Writing About The
Riots' at the Times of India-Kala Ghoda Arts Festival on Friday.On his panel
were three people,who have all been accused,time and again,of reopening 'old
wounds' through their journalism on the riots.Meena Menon,deputy editor of The
Hindu,who recently met a man who said the cops only watched as his house was
torched,felt the riots were a crucial turning point in Mumbai's communal
divide."A lot of people migrated to Mumbra,Thane and Mira Road after the riots
,which later came to be known as terrorist hotbeds," she said.According to civil
rights activist and journalist Teesta Setalvad,one of the reasons why Mumbai
hasn't fully come to terms with the riots is because none of the perpetrators
have been punished yet."Hatred has become a part of the public life,discourse
and internal life," said Setalvad,editor of Communalism Combat magazine,claiming
that interns from other cities always tell her they find Mumbai "cruel and rank
anti-Muslim".Author and journalist Vaibhav Purandare confessed to having edited
out some "horrendous" parts from the first draft of his book The Sena
Story,especially those detailing the destruction of shrines,as he found them
"extremely disturbing".But Menon felt that it was important to document what
happened."People are now willing to talk," said Menon,who recently met the
mother of a woman who had been gangraped in Devipada at the time.When Naresh
Fernandes asked if live television fuelled violence,Setalvad called it a 'beast
with which we are grappling'."While news channels kept showing the Godhra
coach,it did not show the corpses of victims of the post Godhra violence.But all
the same,it has helped in keeping Gujarat alive," she conceded.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-beauty queen pleads guilty in riot; Lawyer decries high media attention

BYLINE: James Keller, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 239 words


A former beauty queen whose crowning as Miss Congeniality made her one of the
highest-profile suspects in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot has pleaded guilty, and
her lawyer has suggested the woman's international notoriety has gone far beyond
what her case deserves.

Sophie Laboissonniere, who was 20 at the time of the June 2011 riot, wasn't in
court Monday, when her lawyer entered the plea on her behalf.

The Richmond resident was among the first batch of suspects charged after the
riot. Media reports quickly identified her as the winner of Miss Congeniality at
a local beauty pageant, sending her name and photo across Canada and farther
afield. She was charged with one count of participating in a riot and one count
of breaking-and-entering. She pleaded guilty to the riot charge, while the
break-and-enter charge will be stayed by the Crown once she is sentenced, said
her lawyer, David Baker.

The court has yet to hear what exactly Laboissonniere did as rioters torched
cars, smashed windows and looted stores around her.

" ... Compared to the vast majority of people charged here, her participation in
this riot was at the very low end of the scale," Baker told reporters outside
provincial court.

"She has received a level of notoriety that goes way beyond the offence she
committed."

The Crown has approved charges against 173 people, while police have recommended
charges against a total of 315 suspected rioters.

-The Canadian Press

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Former beauty queen Sophie Laboissonniere pleaded guilty to being
involved in 2011's Stanley Cup riot in Vancouver.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Crown wants hockey riot proceedings on TV

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 217  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Crown gave notice in court Wednesday that the attorney general wants to
televise proceedings involving accused Stanley Cup rioters.

Prosecutor Patti Tomasson told a judge that the Crown would apply to have the
proceedings televised involving people accused of participating in the June 15
riot. B.C. Premier Christy Clark has said she wants to see riot-related court
proceedings televised for the public.

The prosecutor gave notice Wednesday at the bail hearing of Ryan Dickinson, who
remains in custody. His case was adjourned until Friday at 9 a.m. at Vancouver
Provincial Court.

Dickinson is accused of participating in a riot, mischief and breaching his
undertaking.

Seven other riot-related accused were scheduled to appear Wednesday in Vancouver
provincial court.

They are: Spencer Kirkwood, Oliver Burke, Anthony Larsen, Matthew Lennox, Jeff
Post, Robert Snelgrove and Sophie Laboissonniere. Laboissonniere, 20, reportedly
won the title of Miss Congeniality at the recent Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

She is accused of taking part in the looting of the London Drugs store during
the riot as well as break-and-enter and participating in a riot.

Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said outside court Wednesday that he believes it
is the first time the Crown has applied to broadcast court proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

The State: Nine inmates injured in prison riot

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 165 words


FOLSOM
Nine inmates injured in prison riot

Nine ambulances were called to a California state prison Wednesday after a riot
that injured several inmates.

The riot is contained at the California State Prison-Sacramento, also known as
the new Folsom Prison.

Nine inmates have a variety of stab and gunshot wounds, but there is no word
about how serious they are.

Correctional officers suffered minor injuries.

Four inmates were sent to the hospital and released.

The riot started about 12:30 p.m. in the main exercise yard.

Officials say it lasted about 10 minutes and involved about 50 people.

When asked if 10 minutes was long for a prison riot, Department of Corrections'
Sgt. Tony Quinn said it is "extremely long."

Officers used pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to bring the riot under
control.

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses about 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.

Herald wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               September 8, 2014

BJP is planning to cause riots, claims Mulayam Singh

LENGTH: 230  words


Lucknow: BJP's ideology is to spread "rumours and instigate riots" to meet their
political ends Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday alleged and
claimed that according to intelligence inputs the saffron party was conspiring
to ignite riots in Uttar Pradesh.

"BJP ideology is to spread rumours and instigate riots to serve their political
ends," Yadav said and claimed that as per intelligence reports it (BJP) is
conspiring to ignite riots in the state.

The former UP chief minister said that two BJP MLAs instigated trouble in
Muzaffarnagar and Moradabad."They were not communal riots but only a minor clash
between two persons which was given communal colour," he said. The UP
government, however, handled it timely and successfully, he said addressing an
election rally here.

The SP leader also criticised Gujarat model of development claiming that due to
scarcity of water, seeds and manure 60 farmers have committed suicide there so
far.

"In Gujarat, farmers are not getting irrigation water, better seeds or manure as
many as 60 farmers have so far committed suicide there," Yadav said.

Yadav alleged that Modi misguided people by making tall promises during the
elections but failed to fulfil them.

"No jobs have so far been given to unemployed youth, prices of common
commodities are sky rocketing making the life of poor and the down trodden
miserable," he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Shadow of violence refuses to go away in Egypt

LENGTH: 1092  words


The riots in Port Said in February have led to court cases and protests in the
streets. AFP

The riots in Port Said in February have led to court cases and protests in the
streets. AFP

The riots in Port Said in February have led to court cases and protests in the
streets.

The riots in Port Said in February have led to court cases and protests in the
streets. AFP

The riots in Port Said in February have led to court cases and protests in the
streets. AFP

Aaron Ross

Eight months after a deadly stadium riot in Port Said brought domestic football
in Egypt to a grinding halt, the spectre of renewed violence looms over the
imminent resumption of the Egyptian Premier League.

Ultras Ahlawy, the hard-core supporters group of Cairo's Al Ahly, has issued a
series of conditions for accepting a new league season, slated to begin in
military stadiums on October 17.

Those conditions include a resolution of the ongoing trial of those implicated
in the Port Said deaths, the resignations of the minister of sport and board of
the Egyptian Football Association (EFA) and a purge of certain media
personalities.

Dozens of Ahlawy members were among the 74 killed last February, when armed
thugs invaded the away stands after the final whistle of a match between Al Ahly
and Port Said's Al Masry.

The trial, which began in April, has plodded along with no sign of a verdict
soon.

One senior member named Rani, 21, issued an ominous warning of what would take
place should officials forge ahead with the season.

"Violence, which was the last option," he said. Pressed for specifics, he added,
"simply breaking into the stadium." He added that no final decision had yet been
taken by the group, but that he could not envision any other course of action,
"because it will be the only available way to stop the league".

Ultras Ahlawy have been joined in their opposition to beginning the season by at
least four other Ultras groups-Red Devils, an Alexandria-based Ahly supporters
group; Zamalek's White Knights; Ismaily's Yellow Dragons and Ittihad's Green
Magic.

The government of President Mohamed Morsi has initiated dialogue with the
Ultras, who have a history of clashing with police, in an effort to head off any
violence.

Mohamed Fouad Gadallah, a legal adviser to the president, hosted representatives
from Ahlawy, White Knights and Yellow Dragons at his house a few weeks ago.

Ahmed El Kelaya, 21, a Yellow Dragons member who attended the meeting, described
Gadallah as receptive to the Ultras' concerns. The groups' staunch opposition to
resuming the league, however, remains a sticking point, though El Kelaya
cautioned that Yellow Dragons and others would not necessarily be willing to
resort to violence.

"We agree on the same principles and the same mentality," he said, "but we don't
have to do everything they do because [Ultras Ahlawy] are the ones involved, not
us. They are the ones whose people died, not us."

Ultras Ahlawy have escalated their campaign against the new season in the last
month, storming two separate Ahly training facilities, EFA headquarters, and the
television studios of a major Egyptian broadcaster.

They also threatened to storm the Egyptian Super Cup match between Ahly and
ENPPI in early September, which was held behind closed doors at a military
stadium in Alexandria. They backed off amid rumours that the police had hired
local Bedouin tribes to confront them outside the stadium, although the sports
ministry did postpone the start of the league by a month.

Rani vowed that these actions would continue.

"As long as [the government and media] spread [lies] about us, there will be no
mercy," he said.

But EFA spokesman Azmy Megahed insists that the season will begin on time. In
his office at an EFA headquarters bearing no sign of the recent attack, he
dismissed the prospect that the Ultras would cause a crisis.

"As long as the law is enforced, there will be no problem. As long as there is a
state that has laws, I think everything will turn out all right," he argued,
pointing out that the military stadiums where the matches will be played are
"like barracks".

He urged the Ultras to pursue their demands through peaceful channels. "The case
is still in court," he said. "And we have to wait until the court returns its
verdict. But they're rushing. They're attempting to rush the courts. And that's
something we don't need."

Egyptian football figures are desperate for a return to normal activity. The
long hiatus has had debilitating financial consequences for the clubs, players
and the thousands of other Egyptians - from stadium workers to souvenir vendors
- who rely on football for their livelihood.

Dozens of players demonstrated in front of the sports ministry on Monday to
demand the resumption of the league.

In a press conference last Wednesday, national team head coach Bob Bradley also
made the case for a prompt return to domestic competition. Forced to rely on
repeated training camps in a bid to stay match-sharp, the Pharaohs have
struggled, opening World Cup qualifying in June with two wins, but dropping a
play-off tie to lowly Central African Republic to miss out on qualification for
their second consecutive Africa Cup of Nations.

"The league is very important," said Bradley. "We must be optimistic that the
league will start and that the players will be back playing every week."

Ultras Ahlawy held a peaceful protest of their own in front of the sports
ministry on Tuesday. They also saw one of their major demands met the next day
as former members of Hosni Mubarak's National Democratic Party, Hani Abou-Reida
and Ahmed Shobeir, withdrew their candidacies from the upcoming EFA presidential
election. But with no verdict in the Port Said trial forthcoming and neither the
Ultras nor the EFA willing to budge, confrontation looks increasingly likely.

And El Kelaya fears that whether or not the start of the season ushers in
clashes between Ahly's faithful and police, the government's failure to address
key Ultras priorities - namely, reforming the loathed ministry of interior,
which many blame for the events in Port Said - augurs trouble down the road.

"The ministry of interior is the same - the same people, the same way as
before," he said. "They did not change ... That's why the revolution was made -
because of the police officers, because of what they have done to us, to the
Egyptian people. So nothing changed."

He added this grim assessment.

"We believe that an incident like Port Said will happen again in our current
atmosphere. That's why we don't want football to be back now."

sports@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2012 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chartist convicts were sent away to Tasmania

SECTION: THE WAY WE WERE;FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words


MADAM, - I read with great interest two recent articles in The Sentinel.

One was in the Weekend Sentinel on December 31, concerning Joseph Capper and the
Chartist Riots of the 1840s. And the other was in The Sentinel on January 2,
concerning the Sneyd Colliery disaster of January 1, 1942 and the 70th
anniversary memorial service.

In relation to the Chartist Riots of 1842, my grandmother's great uncle was one
of those convicted following the riots. He was Elijah Clay, aged 18 and a
collier at the time who lived in Botteslow Street, Hanley.

On August 27, 1842, following the riots on August 15, he was committed for trial
charged with 'riot and destroying and burning property at the Reverend Mr
Aitken's on the night of Monday, 15th August'.

My grandmother related that her family believed he had been involved in burning
down one of the vicar's hayricks. The newspaper of the time reported that 'the
Rev R.E. Atkins' loss is estimated at upwards of £2,000 at Hanley parsonage'.

In total, 264 men were convicted at Stafford Assizes in October, 1842. Some 54
were transported to Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania): 11 for life; 13 for 21
years; nine for 15 years; 18 for 10 years (one of whom was Elijah Clay); and
three for seven years. Some 146 were sentenced to hard labour in this country
and 64 were sent to the common gaol.

Elijah Clay along with most, if not all, of those convicted at Stafford to
transportation sailed from Spithead on December 7, 1842 aboard the prison ship
'John Renwick'.

There were 161 convicts on board and they arrived at Port Arthur, Tasmania, on
April 11, 1843 for imprisonment.

Elijah received a Ticket of Leave on April 11, 1848, was made a constable on
December 21, 1848 and was given a Conditional Pardon on February 5, 1850. He
married a widow, Mary Ann Page, in Melbourne, Victoria on September 2, 1850 and
moved upstate to become a farmer. At this point my family lost touch with him.

In relation to the Sneyd disaster of 1942, I worked at Norton Colliery, adjacent
to Sneyd Colliery, from 1957 to 1967 alongside some miners who had vivid
memories of the disaster. One of them, Edgar Brereton, had a relative killed by
it.

In my relatively short time at the pit there were four individual fatal
accidents that I recall. In the lifetime of Norton Colliery there must have been
many more.

Likewise in the lifetimes of the large number of pits in the North Staffordshire
Coalfield there must have been numerous individual deaths due to accidents.

With the memorial service and plaque of the Sneyd disaster in mind and the
efforts of Keith Meeson to obtain the memorial plaque, I wonder if it would be
possible for interested parties to try and compile a list of all who lost their
lives. If this could be achieved then I suggest that a Book of Names be built
into the Memorial Headgear at Alsagers Bank in the Apedale Country Park. A
magnificent site to the memory of these miners and their industry.

MIKE GOULD Wolstanton

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sneyd Colliery and, right, an illustration of the Chartist Riots.
The aftermath of the pit disaster, where 57 men lost their lives, photographed
by the mines inspector in 1942.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2012 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Express and Echo

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rioters' actions have stereotyped our lives

BYLINE: Keiran Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 581 words


RECENTLY we have seen rioters wreak havoc in London and other large cities
across the UK, including Manchester and Bir mingham.

Many properties were destroyed and millions of pounds of damage caused during
the riots. It was widely reported that young people were almost entirely
responsible for the riots taking place, but there are other things to consider.

The view that many people have taken is that the rioters didn't care about what
they were doing and had no reason for their actions. Although that may have been
the case for some people, it is ridiculous to suggest that one size fits all.

Consider this: riots took place in Manchester, where significantly large
portions of its youth service are being cut. Meanwhile, in Devon, which is
facing smaller cuts to the youth service, riots did not take place. This would
lead many to believe that rioters felt peaceful protests were not being noticed
by those who decided on the cutbacks which led to them wanting to take more
serious action. It also shows how vital these services are to young people and
how cutting them back is just causing further problems. When the full extent of
cuts is felt, the riots might escalate; they may become worse and more difficult
to sort out.

Many young people who disagree with the riots feel they are being unfairly
blamed. They believe the action was not the right thing to do and has only left
behind a negative impact.

It shows how just a small minority of people can give everyone else a bad image.
It can also lead to more serious problems such as creating stereotypes which can
take a long time to correct and are potentially very damaging.

The Government and local authorities should learn from the riots that they need
to find ways of making cutbacks in other areas that do not affect frontline
services, including those for young people.

The riots were a step too far; they ruined the work of those who peacefully
protested.

The rioters did not only cause criminal damage, they injured a large number of
people and their actions led to deaths.

Of course, there were many other reasons for the riots happening.

The police and other authorities must be commended for their hard work in
clearing up after the riots.

The events were appalling, they were unnecessary and they should never happen
again.

Nominations wanted for Echo awards THERE'S still time to nominate someone for
the Echo's Teen Team awards.

The awards are taking place for a second time and are part of the Echo's drive
to show that teenagers are some of the leading members of our community - but
that their efforts too often go unsung.

We still need nominations for the top spots in 14 categories, which will be
announced during a major awards night.

Nomination are due to close on Monday, October 24.

The categories are: ? The adult award for the person who has made the greatest
contribution to improving the lives of young people ? Arts and entertainment ?
Caring for others ? Charity supporter/fundraiser ? Community ? Environment ?
Education ? The friend prize for someone who has gone out of their way to be a
special friend ? High achiever ? Most improved pupil ? Positive young person ?
Sports (boys) ? Sports (girls) ? Young scientist of the year.

Organisations backing the event include Ashfords, City of Science Consortium,
EDF Energy, Exeter College, Mainline Fancy Dress, Razzamataz Theatre Schools,
Wales & West Utilities and Western Power Distribution. For details, or to make a
nomination online, visit www.thisisteen.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Negative impact: Rioters clash with police during riots in Tottenham in
August

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEE


                        Copyright 2011 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

We don't need more riot police

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 437 words


CHIEF Commissioner Ken Lay has offered a puzzling justification for his plan to
double the size of the Victoria Police riot squad, from 50 to 110 officers. The
decision, Mr Lay said, was partly motivated by the riots that swept English
cities in August last year: "What would our response be if we had a similar
incident? I certainly thought that there was room to make us better." The
comparison will strike anyone familiar with Britain's urban social problems as
bizarre, for Victoria has nothing like them in scale or intensity.

The Chief Commissioner was no doubt aware of this, however, because he also
suggested that the swollen riot squad would be useful support for general duties
police called out to rowdy teenage parties of several hundred people. Well,
that's a better try, Mr Lay, but not by much. Teenage revels do sometimes get
out of hand, it is true. But the level of force needed to restore order does not
always, or even very often, require helmeted police advancing behind riot
shields, with backup from mounted colleagues and billows of pepper spray or tear
gas wafting overhead. That scenario is rare in this state. The only recent event
resembling it was the eviction of the Occupy Melbourne protesters from the City
Square in October last year. And that was not a response to a riot. It was the
application of what Assistant Commissioner Stephen Fontana described as "minimum
force".

Nonetheless, Mr Lay insists that the enlarged riot squad is necessary, even at
the teenage parties, so that "when our general duties fellas and girls get faced
with this situation they have got an ability to roll out and address it and hit
it hard". The Chief Commissioner's language is so bellicose that he almost
sounds as though he is trying to convince himself of the need for more
paramilitary police. And Mr Lay's examples are so unrelated to the Victoria
people know that cynics might wonder whether the riot squad plan is really his
own initiative or comes from his political masters in the Baillieu government.
Doubling the riot squad is like the government's plan to put armed guards on
Melbourne railway stations after dark: it is aimed at the perception, not the
reality, of crime. Except that in this case even the perception is hazy, or it
would not be necessary to evoke riots in foreign cities.

Mr Lay is fortunate in that he will soon have 400 more police at his disposal.
He can surely find better ways of deploying them than by doubling the riot squad
- by assigning them to understaffed country or suburban stations, for example.
Their presence should reassure, not intimidate, the public they serve.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

ACTION NOW!;
Riots report urges quick reforms

BYLINE: EXAMINER News Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 443 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across the country, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recom-mendations in our report."

The interim report from the panel detailed the "sometimes horrifying and tragic"
accounts of people's experiences of the disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims of the riots receive compensation quickly.

The panel had not heard from anyone who had received a payment under the Act,
with forecasts that by March 2012 "barely half" of the smallest and only one in
10 of the largest claims will have been paid.

The report called for the insurance industry to tackle cases where service has
been poor.

It also said stop and search needed "immediate attention" to ensure community
confidence was not undermined. This followed complaints from many people that
police stop and search was "consistently" carried out without courtesy.

Victims should be able to confront rioters who committed crimes against them,
the report said, and service personnel who protected communities at "great risk"
should be honoured.

There should also be "clear plans" to help cut the risk of reoffending by
convicted rioters, the report added.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person. The final bill could
reach around pounds 500 million, including up to pounds 300 million of claims
under the Riot Damages Act and pounds 50 million costs to police, the report
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Mulayam's wisdom: Modi took so many lives and didn't give a single rupee, but UP
govt gave Rs.115 cr assistance to Muzaffarnagar riots victims!

LENGTH: 312  words


Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh): On his maiden visit to Muzaffarnagar since the
deadly communal violence seven months ago, Mulayam Singh Yadav today defended UP
government's handling of the riots and claimed Rs 115-crore assistance was given
to victims unlike in Gujarat where "not a single rupee" was spent by Narendra
Modi on the 2002 riots affected.

Addressing a rally in the western UP district that will go to polls on April 10,
the Samajawadi Party supremo reached out to Muslims, and said his government had
initiated a number of schemes for their welfare.

With SP government under attack for handling of communal riots that left over 60
people dead and thousands of others homeless, Mulayam claimed the administration
had successfully controlled the violence in two days.

"The riots were unfortunate. We decided to give job to one member of each
affected family. We assisted them in housing. SP government provided an
assistance of Rs 115 crore to riot victims. Such a big amount was never
distributed as relief to riot victims in the country.

"They say Modi, Modi. He took so many lives.... Gujarat government did not give
a single rupee to the riot victims.

"UP government has distributed relief amount to riot victims without any
discrimination," the former chief minister said.

Referring to the Sachchar committee report, he said that Mulims are economically
backward and the state government has planned various welfare schemes for them.

He said that no party would gain majority in the elections. The Third Front will
form government and SP will emerge as the largest party.

He claimed that Samajwadi party would win more than 50 per cent of the 80 seats
in Utter Pradesh.

SP leader said that Muslims and farmers have been ignored in the country and
they needed a helping hand to improve their condition. He appealed to the people
to vote for SP candidate Virender Singh.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Advocate Phoolka explains the "differences" between 1984 and 2002 riots to Rahul
Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 609 words


JALANDHAR: After Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi's comments that there were
differences between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots and refrained
from tendering an apology for the '84 riots, senior Supreme Court advocate H S
Phoolka who has been spearheading the legal battle to get justice for the
victims has said that Rahul was right to the extent that there is a difference
in the Gujarat riots and the 1984 riots but his reasons are all wrong.

"The actual difference is that in case of the Gujarat riots all those cases
which were closed by the Police were reopened and reinvestigated by the SIT. The
Congress fully supported the formation of this SIT. In a shameful display of
double standards, when it comes to the 1984 riot cases, again most of the cases
were closed by the Police itself but the Congress is not supporting the demand
of formation of SIT," pointed out Phoolka who also co-authored a book titled-
"When A Tree Shook Daily," coined after Rajiv Gandhi's famous quote after his
mother Indira Gandhi's assassination.

According to the Nanavati Commission Report which was submitted in 2005, a total
of 587 FIRs were registered in Delhi and out of these 241 were closed by the
Police as untraced and were never even sent to Court for trial. "It is thus
absolutely imperative to form an SIT to reopen and reinvestigate these cases but
unfortunately the Congress is not interested in formation of an SIT.

There are other glaring differences as well. In the Gujarat riots, 131 persons
have been awarded life imprisonment, 10 have been awarded the death sentence and
one minister has been sentenced to 28 years imprisonment. In stark contrast, in
the riots of 1984, hardly anyone has been punished.

"As far as the involvement of the Government is concerned, Rahul Gandhi should
only see the report of Mishra Commission, a commission appointed by the Congress
government only," Phoolka said while quoting from the Mishra Commission's report
which read- "If the Army had been called in the morning of November 1, 1984-and
by then about 5,000 Army people were at Delhi- the position would certainly not
have been as bad as it turned out to be. 5,000 Army jawans divided into columns
and moving into the streets properly armed would not have brought about the
death of at least 2,000 people."

Those political leaders who openly led the mob were rewarded and given high
positions. Instead of sending them to jail they were given position of power and
made ministers. This sent a wrong signal and started a dangerous precedent that
murders of hundred and thousands of innocents would not be punished, and would
rather be rewarded.

If the guilty of 1984 riots had been punished, we wouldn't have seen the riots
of Mumbai in 1993 or the riot of Gujarat in 2002 and it was the active
connivance of the Congress government in 1984 and its massive cover up for all
these decades thereafter, that has prevented justice from being done for the
victims of 1984, he said adding, Rahul Gandhi's statement was like salt on the
wounds of the victims of 1984.

"During the 1984 riots, throughout Delhi, Sikhs had been disarmed by the Police
and they were arrested from their houses, if they defended themselves and their
children. Even the "Right To Defend" of its citizens had been brutally stripped
off, let alone protect them. Wherever any Sikh tried to himself and his
children, the Police reached in large numbers and arrested that Sikh from his
house, but didn't even touch anyone in the mob," Phoolka said. "If this is not
government's connivance, then we ask Gandhi, what is it?" asked the Supreme
Court advocate.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

Cong has apologized for '84 riots,Modi has not: Singhvi

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 238 words


New Delhi: Congress on Tuesday said apology from the party leadership for the
1984 riots set it apart from Narendra Modi who is accused of orchestrating the
2002 anti-Muslim carnage,slamming the comparison between the two parties as well
as the pogroms as "odious".AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said PM Manmohan
Singh and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had apologized for the anti-Sikh riots
more than once and that too 10 years ago.He said the Gujarat riots were
different because apart from apology,the process of reconciliation over the past
12 years as well as the transfer of riot cases out of Gujarat showed that the
state government was suspect."There was en masse transfer of cases from
Gujarat,done for the first time in the country.That was a vote of no-confidence
(in the state),else why would the Supreme Court transfer cases?" Singhvi
asked.The Congress spokesman said terrible events like riots could not be
compared because they were all unpardonable but Congress could not be blamed for
the Sikh riots like Modi is for Gujarat riots.For the full report,log on to
www.timesofindia.com Courts should take suo motu notice: SAD P unjab deputy CM
Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the courts should take suo motu notice of
Rahul Gandhi's remarks in an interview to Times Now that some of his partymen
were involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots,asking Punjab Congress leaders to quit
the party after such a "confession".TNN

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

44 KILLED IN PRISON RIOT;
INMATES CAPTURE GUARD

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 227 words


A PRISON riot in Mexico left about 44 people dead yesterday, a security official
claimed.

Nuevo Leon state spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the violence broke out at
about 2am.

He added authorities at the state prosecutor's office reported 40 dead.

The official said a group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took
a guard hostage.

The riot then spread to a second cell block.

He added authorities regained control within a couple of hours.

Distraught families of the prisoners gathered yesterday morning outside the jail
in Apodaca outside the northern city of Monterrey, seeking word of the victims.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons.

Gangs and drug cartels stage jail breaks and battle for control of
penitentiaries, often with the involvement of officials. A total of 31 prisoners
died in January in a riot in the city of Altimara in Tamaulipas state, which
borders Texas.

Another jail fight in Matamoros last October left 20 inmates dead and 12
injured.

In July, the death toll in a prison riot in Juarez reached 17. Mexican
authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash.

Surveillance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed prisoners into
a room where the slain victims were holding a party.

Twenty-three people died in a Durango city jail riot in 2010, and a 2009 riot in
Gomez Palacio left 19 dead.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENT Prisoners attack security fence after riot in Apodaca prison
yesterday ANGUISH Relatives

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

'Rahul Must Take Back Riots Remark'

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Jan. 29 -- Political parties on Tuesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for
his comments on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots, saying his
statements were condemnable and he should express regret for it.

"Rahul Gandhi's defence of the Congress government's action in the 1984 riots is
deeply condemnable. What has Rahul to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes - and the manner in which
Congress leaders involved in the massacre were shielded by the government and
the investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse
comments," said senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad.

BJP ally and ruling party in Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal, also flayed Rahul for
his comments that the Congress government had tried to stop the 1984 riots in
Delhi. "Rahul Gandhi says that Modi was responsible for the 2002 riots in
Gujarat because he was the CM. Then what about his father who was the PM when
the carnage against Sikhs took place in Delhi," said Akali Dal Rajya Sabha MP
Naresh Gujral.

Rahul had reportedly said the difference between the 1984 Sikh riots and the
2002 riots was that in Delhi, the government acted to stop the riots, while in
Gujarat the Modi government did not do anything.

JD (U) too reacted acerbically to Rahul's comment on Lalu. "There is a huge
difference between what Gandhi says and does... Even the public understands as
much and will not buy his clarification on his party's alliance with RJD in
Bihar," said Bihar CM Nitish Kumar.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Muswellbrook Chronicle

                                 April 26, 2012

Riot squad justified: police

BYLINE: Stacey Post

SECTION: NEWS - GENERAL

LENGTH: 360  words


Police have defended their decision to call for back-up riot officers after a
wake for a Muswellbrook teen got out of control last week.

Hunter Valley Local Area Command Sergeant Peter Robertson said requesting the
riot squad was the right call given the level of violence that erupted in south
Muswellbrook.

Posts on social media site Facebook suggested the need for riot police was
unnecessary with one post saying it was "a big waste of taxpayers' money."

Sergeant Robertson said specially trained riot officers were needed as soon as
the crowd - which swelled at one point to close to 200 people, many intoxicated
- started attacking police.

"When a large crowd of intoxicated people turn on police, it is a good
indication to deploy public order police," he said.

Two teams from the public order riot squad were called to Muswellbrook following
direction from the NSW Police Assistant Commissioner.

"Anyone that doubts our justification needs to know that it is not just ad hoc,"
Sergeant Robertson said.

"The public order police have to be deployed through a formal notice."

About 40 officers, including the riot squads, were in south Muswellbrook last
Thursday night to bring the alcohol-fuelled violence under control.

Officers attended from the Central Hunter and Port Stephens commands and the
Police Dog Squad was also called in.

The disturbance escalated about 8pm in Wybong Way following the wake of
19-year-old Muswellbrook teen Daniel Horton.

Mr Horton died after the car he was driving, believed to be stolen, left the
road and hit a tree at Curlewis earlier this month.

Police first received calls to Wybong Way in relation to a large crowd of about
200 people with reports of fights breaking out and vehicles doing burn-outs.

By the time police arrived, the crowd had spread into Wollombi Road where a
number of brawls took place.

Police said shortly after officers arrived the crowd started to turn on police.

Bottles and rocks were used as missiles and thrown at officers.

Once extra police enforcements arrived, the crowd was moved on and brought under
control about 2am.

One man was charged for using offensive behaviour.

No injuries were reported.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

Revisiting the riots of '93

BYLINE: Sharmila Ganesan Ram

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 320 words


MUMBAI: "Twenty years later, why should we remember the Mumbai riots of
1992-93?" asked author Naresh Fernandes, setting the tone for a discussion on
'Writing About The Riots' at the Times of India-Kala Ghoda Arts Festival on
Friday. On his panel were three people, who have all been accused, time and
again, of reopening 'old wounds' through their journalism on the riots.

Meena Menon, deputy editor of The Hindu, who recently met a man who said the
cops only watched as his house was torched, felt the riots were a crucial
turning point in Mumbai's communal divide. "A lot of people migrated to Mumbra,
Thane and Mira Road after the riots, which later came to be known as terrorist
hotbeds," she said.

According to civil rights activist and journalist Teesta Setalvad, one of the
reasons why Mumbai hasn't fully come to terms with the riots is because none of
the perpetrators have been punished yet. "Hatred has become a part of the public
life, discourse and internal life," said Setalvad, editor of Communalism Combat
magazine, claiming that interns from other cities always tell her they find
Mumbai "cruel and rank anti-Muslim". Author and journalist Vaibhav Purandare
confessed to having edited out some "horrendous" parts from the first draft of
his book The Sena Story, especially those detailing the destruction of shrines,
as he found them "extremely disturbing". But Menon felt that it was important to
document what happened. "People are now willing to talk," said Menon, who
recently met the mother of a woman who had been gangraped in Devipada at the
time.

When Naresh Fernandes asked if live television fuelled violence, Setalvad called
it a 'beast with which we are grappling'. "While news channels kept showing the
Godhra coach, it did not show the corpses of victims of the post Godhra
violence. But all the same, it has helped in keeping Gujarat alive," she
conceded.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday

Moscow endures a quiet riot

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 437 words


The Manezhnaya riots on Dec. 11 were indeed riots, according to Russia's
investigative committee.

But 5,000 or so nationalists and football fans rampaging beside the Kremlin was
a 'soft' riot according to the criminal code.

Those convicted of any crimes on the day will therefore face lighter sentences
of up to three years in jail rather than the eight to 10 year tariffs demanded
for 'heavy' rioting.

Investigators were unable to prove that the violence had been organised in
advance, RBC Daily reported.

Charges will focus on appeals to disobey the police, calls to riot and attempts
to incite violence against citizens.

To qualify for a more serious riot participants would need to commit planned
violence against citizens or indulge in arson, looting, use of weapons or
explosives or offer armed resistance to the security forces.

Spontaneous violence

According to one of the participants in the riot, there was no guiding hand and
football fans gathered in the square to protest against the release of suspects
in the murder of Spartak supporter Yegor Sviridov on their own initiative.

The man, who spoke to Kommersant on condition of anonymity, said that leaders of
supporters' groups had urged fans not to go - on police advice - but had been
unable to stop the demonstration.

And he warned that the 'Russian bear' was awaking from hibernation and
threatened a repeat of Manezhnaya in every city.

'We are tired of being afraid, tired of the constant insults,' he said. 'The
country's leadership has to address this national question. If not we could see
if not a civil war then certainly internal conflict.'

Called up

Not everyone caught up in the recent unrest in Moscow will be facing legal
action, however.

Among the young men detained during the Manezhnaya incident and subsequent
disturbances at Kievskaya and Ostankino police found more than 200 who had
ducked military service.

As a result 120 detainees have already been frogmarched to the local recruitment
office.

Who guards the guards?

A criminal case has now been opened against the investigators who agreed to
release five suspects in the brawl which led to Sviridov's death.

That decision, on Dec. 6, lit the fuse on a wave of unrest across Russia,
prompting nationalists to stage several increasingly violent rallies in Moscow
and beyond.

Now Vladimir Markin, spokesman of Russia's investigative committee, has
announced that the officers who released the suspects will be charged with
negligence.

Last week deputy prosecutor general Alexander Buksman said: 'It was an
absolutely illegal decision and, in fact, led to rioting.'

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           December 22, 2009 Tuesday

India: Riot victims protest Doabia's visit

LENGTH: 195  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Dec. 22 -- Victims of 1984 riots today protested against the visit of
TS Doabia, a former Delhi High Court Judge, who was asked by the Delhi Sikh
Gurdwara Management Committee to probe into the December 5 firing against Sikhs
who were protesting against religious leader Ashutosh Maharaj.Justice Doabia was
to listen to the victims of the violence at Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women.
The riot victims carried black flags and marched towards the college.However,
the police had barricaded the area and did not allow the riot victims to pass
through.The riot victims alleged that Sarna was a "traitor" and was working at
the behest of the Congress while portraying himself as their sympathiser.They
said he did not allow the riot victims to organise an akhand path at a Delhi
gurdwara to observe the 25th anniversary of the riots. "What kind of a Sikh is
he?" they asked, adding that he had no locus standi to constitute a probe panel
as the state had already ordered a magisterial probe. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday
                                Lucknow Edition

'Riots underscore need for much-delayed police reforms'

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 331 words


New Delhi: The political complicity in the Muzaffarnagar riots,as revealed by a
TV news channel's sting operation,underscores the need for the much-delayed
police reforms in UP and elsewhere in the country.This was the joint message on
Wednesday from civil society groups fighting for the implementation - "in letter
and spirit" - of the 2006 Supreme Court judgment on police reforms,which seek to
insulate the law enforcement machinery from political interference."These
Muzaffarnagar riots are an absolute replica of so many of the riots that have
stained our country,including the Delhi riots of 1984 and the Gujarat riots of
2002," said Maja Daruwala of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative
(CHRI)."This manufactured hatred is becoming a template for cynical
politicians.The same provocative speeches,the same wink and nod to let the
killing,loot and arson go on,then the same assurances of accountability that are
all planned to melt when public memory fades," Daruwala said.Retired police
officer Kiran Bedi,representing Members of the People's Police Campaign,said: "A
careful balance has to be struck between legitimate supervision of the police by
the police executive and illegitimate interference and influence that has been
so blatantly visible in Muzaffarnagar." On the brighter side,activists
appreciated the initiative taken by a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice G S
Singhvi to break the deadlock on police reforms.Kamal Jaiswal of Common Cause
warned that judicial efforts were unlikely to bear fruit "until there was
sufficient popular pressure on political parties to implement police
reforms".The police too had a stake in the reforms mandated by the Supreme Court
because those willing to stand up to extraneous pressures would be provided with
a remedy in the event of political vendetta.An aggrieved police officer will
then be able to approach the state police commission,duly empowered to undo any
unjust or politically motivated action taken against him.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                National Edition

Who's to blame for the riots?; Regular citizens fuelled the chaos

BYLINE: Jeffrey W. Tighe, National Post

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 113  words


Re: Lessons from Vancouver and Toronto, editorial, June 17.

While I agree with most of the Post's editorial on the Vancouver riots, it got
one thing wrong when it stated that that law-abiding citizens are free to remain
in a riot zone, but that it is unwise to do so. In fact, it is a crime to remain
in a riot zone after the riot provisions of the criminal code have been
broadcast (which was done in Vancouver).

Those dolts who remained to laugh and take pictures of the riot were aiding and
abetting the main rioters, and making it impossible for the police to gain
control. They are just as guilty as those who threw the bricks and smashed the
windows.

Jeffrey W. Tighe, Toronto.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mike Carlson, Reuters; A Sears store in downtown Vancouver is looted
during street riots after game seven.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 11, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: European Commission: Riots in Egypt will not impact oil supplies to
Europe

BYLINE: V.Zhavoronkova, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 258 words


Feb. 11--The European Commission believes riots in Egypt will not affect the oil
supplies to Europe.

"The EU imports a lot of crude oil from the Persian gulf countries, including
Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia Oman and others," the Spokesman for EU Energy
Commissioner Guenther Oettinger, Marlene Holzner, told Trend over the telephone.

However, she said, the riots in Egypt may slightly affect the total oil supply
to the EU, as the quantities that it gets from Egypt are very small.

According to the statistics from the EU, Egypt ranked the 20th with 2.2 million
tons of oil among the supplier countries over the oil supplies figures in
January-August last year.

Riots have led to concerns about that this will reduce the oil supplies to
Europe.

Large-scale anti-governmental protests are ongoing in Egypt from Jan.25.
Thousands of people in different cities across the country have taken to the
streets, demanding President Hosni Mubarak's resignation and the dissolution of
parliament. The unrests in the country have killed at least 300 people and have
injured over 4,000.

In 2009, the EU has received 4.4 million tons of oil from Egypt.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at capital@trend.az

To see more of the Trend News Agency, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://en.trend.az/. Copyright (c) 2011, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110211-1AZ-BRF-European-Commission-Riots
-in-Egypt-will-not-impact-oil-supplies-to-Europe-0211-20110211

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011

                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 20, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

NCM seeks report on Muzaffarnagar riots

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 459  words


Muzaffarnagar, Sept 19 (IBNS) A team from the National Commission for Minorities
(NCM) on Thursday arrived at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh where communal riots
claimed at least 48 lives recently.

The team, headed by NCM chairperson Wajahat Habibullah, sought a report from the
Akhilesh Yadav government on the riots and subsequent actions takne by it.

Talking to reporters, Wajahat said, "If such an incident happens it is obviously
a failure of the administration and as a result that of the state and Centre."

"Such things do not happen only in Uttar Pradesh. We have had recent communal
clashes in Indore, Rajasthan and Mumbai," he said.

Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said state
minister Azam Khan did not play any role in the riots.

"Azam Khan had no role to play in Muzaffarnagar riots. He did not call any
police officer and asked them to go slow on rioters," Yadav told media.

"It is the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) who fuelled Muzaffarnagar violence," he
said.

Khan on Wednesday said he hs nothing to with  Muzaffarnagar riots.

"I have nothing to do with Muzaffarnagar riots. I am not involved," said the
senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader.

Khan on Monday slammed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and top brass of Congress
party for touring riot-hit Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.

"Manmohan Singh has gone to Muzaffarnagar... it is good... elections are near so
he should do this," Khan told reporters here.

He said if the PM is so concerned about communal riots, then he should have also
visited other areas like Faizabad, Mathura and Bareilly, where riots have taken
place in the past.

He also defended the state government over the handling of the situation and
said it has followed law so far, which helped in stopping the riots.

"We have followed the law so far and will continue doing so. It is the law that
has stopped the violence in Muzaffarnagar."

Khan alleged that the riots in Muzaffarnagar were triggered by fascist forces
which operate under the cover of secularism.

"Fascists in the country were bothered by the fact that the Samajwadi Party is
peacefully in power in UP," Khan told reporters.

"Whatever happened there was bad and we condemn it. WE will take strict action
against the perpetrators," he said.

Khan reportedly skipped a crucial national executive party meeting in Agra last
week and his absence was speculated as a registration of protest over the
Muzaffarnagar riots that have killed at least 44 people.

NDTV citing sources even reported that Khan had told supporters that he blames
the state government for failing to prevent the riots despite myriad warning
signs.

However, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav had denied all reports of rifts within
the party and said Khan could never be upset with him.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

If Narendra Modi becomes PM, riots may follow: Sheila Dikshit

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 346 words


NEW DELHI: Chief minister Sheila Dikshit took her party's anti-Modi rhetoric to
a new height on Saturday when she warned the people at a rally in Ballimaran
that if the Gujarat CM became Prime Minister, there was a possibility of riots
breaking out. Union minister Kapil Sibal insinuated further and said wherever
Modi went, riots invariably followed.

These barbs came just an hour-and-a-half after Modi's own rally near Red Fort
where he spared no opportunity to attack Congress. "Aur woh jo hain Narendra
Modi ... agar woh satta mein aa gaye to aisa na ho ki yahaan dange ho jayein (If
Narendra Modi comes to power, it is possible that you may see riots)," Dikshit
told the crowd.

Sibal simply lashed out: "Modi jahaan jatey hain wahaan riot ho jata hai.
Gujarat mein Godhra aur UP mein gaye toh phir riot ho gaya (Wherever Modi goes
there is a riot. Godhra happened in Gujarat and when he went to UP there was a
riot). He wants to be PM. BJP has only one hero, Modi, and in the court of this
hero, all decisions are his. He makes us all stand in that court and passes
verdict where he gives himself 100 and everyone else zero. I want to ask where
the hero was in 2002 during Godhra riots?"

He went onto warn people to make the right choice. "If you vote for the BJP led
by Modi then you may end up in a situation that led to 1947. If you vote for
Congress then you can hope for a secular, independent India that emerged after
Partition. Don't waste your votes on AAP. They have ridden into politics using
the Anna Hazare movement. They are not going to provide a stable government,"
Sibal added.

Dikshit said that BJP was misleading people and had no vision for Delhi. To
drive home her point, she gave the example of BJP's campaign on onion prices.
She said even though onion prices have come down to Rs 25 per kilo, BJP is still
accusing Congress of mismanaging the crisis.

What was unmistakable, however, was the over emphasis on Modi that reflected a
growing worry within Congress that Modi wave might sweep the city's voters away
with it.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

RIOT JAIL LAGS WANT GBP 1M 'STRESS' COMPO;
Human rights 'rip-off'

BYLINE: by CAMERON MILLAR

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 299 words


LAGS caught in a jail riot are suing for more than GBP 1million over their
"stress."

Prison officers involved in the same riot are also demanding a big payday after
some of them were attacked.

The revolt which erupted over a move to swap hot dinners for sandwiches at
Lincoln Prison caused GBP 3m worth of damage.

Prisoners seized the jail for more than eight hours, destroying cells, tearing
up expensive fittings and attacking other inmates with legs torn from tables and
beds.

The building was rocked by two explosions and part of the crowded Victorian jail
was set ablaze.

Two hundred police were scrambled to the scene and the Army was reported to be
on stand-by.

But in their group legal action, bleating lags are demanding Government cash for
"physical and psychological injuries" sustained because they claim the jail's
security was not up to scratch.

The claimants, believed to include sex offenders, say they did not start the
riot, but became victims when other inmates grabbed keys and launched an attack
on the vulnerable prisoners' wing.

The case will probe whether keys and locks installed at the time of the riot in
October 2002 were tough enough. Solicitor for the prisoners Stephen Wilson said:
"They were victims in a riot.

They were no way involved in the starting of this.

"The claim is against the Prison Service for not doing more to prevent the riot
or to protect them when the riot started."

But Blair Gibbs, spokesman for the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "Cases like this
prove that the compensation culture in British prisons is clearly out of
control.

"The Government is allowing criminals to use human rights laws to rip off the
taxpayer."

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We can confirm that we are looking into
these claims but it would be inappropriate to comment further."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION STATIONS: Troubled Lincoln jail and police in riot gear waiting
to go into the prison in 2002

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                Lucknow Edition

'Scared of Modi? I've seen my dad,grandma die.I'm scared of nothing'

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 728 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rahul: NaMo Govt Was Involved In Guj Riots;In 1984,Cong Tried To Stop
Riots Says He Had A Hand In Cong Backing To AAP


New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has drawn a distinction between the 2002
Gujarat riots and the 1984 anti-Sikh riots on the grounds that while the
violence in Gujarat was aided and abetted by the Narendra Modi state
government,in the 1984 riots the government tried to stop the violence.Asked in
an interview why certain Congress leaders like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler
were facing court cases if the Congress government,indeed,tried to stop the 1984
riots,Rahul didn't respond directly,but eventually acknowledged that some
Congressmen were probably involved in the riots.Covering considerable ground in
a detailed interview with Times Now,Rahul indicated his role in Congress's
decision to support AAP,said he did not want to be formally named PM candidate
because of his respect for the Constitution but expressed confidence about
winning the polls.After initially fending off questions on Modi,Rahul denied he
fears losing to him."I have seen my grandmother ...my father die...there is
absolutely nothing I am scared of." He refuted the suggestion that Congress
might already be knocked out of the 2014 contest,saying he is "reasonably
confident" of winning the election and will,as vice president,accept
responsibility if the party fails.Asked pointedly whether he agrees with
Manmohan Singh's criticism of Modi for presiding over a "mass massacre",Rahul
said,"The Gujarat riots took place,people died.Mr Narendra Modi was in charge of
Gujarat at that point."

He responded to questions about Modi disparagingly referring to him as "shehzada
(prince)" by criticizing BJP for concentrating powers in the hands of one
individual.ON THE 1984 ANTI-SIKH RIOTS Did the riots take place? Absolutely.Did
innocents die? Absolutely.Were Congressmen involved? Some were probably
involved.There is a legal process which they've gone through HOW HE'S COPED WITH
ELECTORAL SETBACKS I don't go into an election thinking it'll be the end of the
world if we lose WHETHER HE SHOULD HAVE SPOKEN OUT ON GRAFT EARLIER My position
was that I report to the PM... Whatever I felt,I had conversations with the PM
WHAT IF AAP TARGETS SHEILA DIKSHIT? Regardless of who the person is,if there is
an issue of corruption,the law should take its course Rahul appreciates AAP's
ability to reach out to people 'In Cong,Anyone Who Doesn't Act On Graft Will Be
Punished' Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi came across as committed to the
long term in politics and sought to counter the impression of being a reluctant
politician,saying that he was "thinking deeply and in the long term".He said his
commitment to altering the existing closed door political system was why he is
being attacked and said,"That's why I am attacked.I understand that.And frankly
attack me all you want.Beat me to death.It is not going to stop me." Rahul also
shed light on Congress move to support AAP which has been strongly criticized by
senior leaders like finance minister P Chidambaram."I think as far as I am
concerned that AAP won an election in Delhi,we thought we would assist them," he
said,making it clear that the decision was cleared at the highest level in the
party.Asked if Congress would continue to support AAP if it goes against Sheila
Dikshit in the CWG scam,Rahul said,"I have already said that regardless of who
the person is,if there is an issue of corruption,the law should take its
course." Rahul appreciated AAP's ability to connect with people,saying,"They
reached out to people in a particular way that was good,there are things that I
don't think we should take away from them." But he vehemently denied that
Congress was propping up AAP to check BJP."I think you underestimate the power
of the Congress party,I don't think the Congress party could even do that if
they wanted to," adding sharply,"I think questions about whether we have
supported AAP or not supported AAP,frankly it is a ridiculous notion." Though he
evaded questions about why he was not acting against Maharashtra leader Ashok
Chavan and Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh who are facing
corruption allegations,Rahul said no one will be protected though a legal
process cannot be short-circuited."What I will say is that in the Congress party
anybody who does any act of corruption will be taken and punished...( But) there
is a legal process and that legal process should be followed," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Riots dampen country's investment climate

BYLINE: Zhang Jianhua in Hanoi

LENGTH: 762  words


Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Stumbling blocks;
The clean chit in the Gujarat riots notwithstanding, the inability to apologise
for the riots and the recent alt147snoop-gatealt148 scandal could hamper Modi's
ascent

BYLINE: Edit

LENGTH: 588  words


The little comfort that the BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi
could have drawn from a clean chit in the Gulbarg society massacre case relating
to the 2002 Gujarat riots has been offset by the Centre's decision to institute
a commission of inquiry to probe the surveillance of a young woman allegedly at
his behest. The magistrate court concurred with the Supreme Court-appointed
Special Investigation Team's (SIT) findings that there was no "satisfactory"
evidence to put Modi on trial for official inaction that led to the death of 69
people when a mob surrounded the Muslim locality and set it on fire. Zakia
Jafri, widow of former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri who was burnt alive, will now
have to take her contention - that Modi was aware of the buildup outside the
society and allegedly influenced the police inaction - to the Sessions court.
The twist in the case came when two IPS officers, RB Sreekumar and Sanjiv Bhatt,
took positions against Modi and filed affidavits supporting Zakia's claims.

Zakia's tenacious fight for justice and Modi's steadfast silence on the riots
despite his rising national profile represent two facets of the 2002 Gujarat
riots discourse. There are sizeable sections of society holding out against
Modi's charms despite the sweeping anti-incumbency against the ruling Congress
party. Many among his detractors - in the political class and civil society -
have reiterated that an apology from Modi for the riots is his best chance to
prove his secular credentials. Not surprisingly, despite Sadbhavana fasts and
pro-business and good-governance agendas, Modi's reputation as a polarising
figure has stuck. In his blog, Modi has now written about his disturbed state of
mind following the riots and his belief that the future of any society lies in
harmony. But the attempt to weave into the narrative, the devastation wrought by
the 2001 Gujarat earthquake and the attacks on him by activists pursuing the
riots cases, raises questions about why a simple apology for command
responsibility is still not forthcoming. For Zakia, the verdict has dashed hopes
kindled by amicus curiae Raju Ramachandran's report to the Supreme Court,
disagreeing with the SIT's clean chit to Modi and its suspicions on Sanjiv
Bhatt's motives. Ramachandran had said that a prima facie case was made out
against Modi and that Bhatt's allegations could be tested in court after
summoning Modi.

Modi's attempt to play the victim card in his latest blog coincides with the
Congress turning the heat on him by a judicial inquiry into the "snoop-gate"
scandal. The Gujarat government had instituted its own inquiry, but after
Gulail.com published new tapes showing the woman was stalked in Bangalore too,
the Centre has got its chance to jump in. The BJP has termed the inquiry a
violation of the federal structure of the Constitution under which law and order
is a state subject. But the latest revelation that the Karnataka police was also
roped in to intercept the woman's phones, points to the pervasiveness of illegal
surveillance. The widening of the probe to include the illegal access of Arun
Jaitley's call detail records was meant to temper the BJP's resistance. Both
these cases relate to the misuse of surveillance technology by the police force.
They highlight the importance of judicial sanction before police can undertake
the surveillance of suspect individuals. An opportunity to rein in agencies and
officials who violate the privacy and individual liberty of citizens has finally
presented itself.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Forged letters submitted for relief claims in '84 riots case

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 9 -- UNIDENTIFIED persons allegedly tried to use forged letters
in the name of a senior Anti- Riot Cell officer to obtain compensation and other
benefits meant for '84 riot victims, police said today.

A case of cheating and forgery has been registered by the Economic Offences Wing
of Delhi Police in this regard after it received a complaint from the Anti-Riot
Cell, a senior police official said. According to the complaint, two letters
dated March 22 under the name of DCP (Anti-Riot Cell) Mahesh Bhardwaj were sent
to SDM, Rohini and Deputy Commissioner of Police (North- West) clearing 41 names
-- nine in the first letter and 32 in the second- for rehabilitation and
compensation. When ACP Mahipal Singh went to the office of Deputy Commissioner
of Police (North-West) for a meeting regarding rehabilitation and compensation
for riot victims, he was handed over the said letters for verification.

"During scrutiny of the letters and verification with the dispatch registers of
the Anti-Riot Cell, it came to light that no such letters were issued by the
Cell. Subsequently, signatures of DCP Bhardwaj on both the letters were also
found to be forged," the official said. "The forged letters talked about the
cases of victims and mentioned that police have verified their claims," the
official said. A written complaint has been filed with the Economic Offences
Wing in this regard and investigations are on, he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 5, 2000, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

COMMISSION ON RACE RIOT IN TULSA, OKLA., OKS PAYMENTS TO SURVIVORS,;
DESCENDANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: TULSA, OKLA.


* Reparation package for clash in 1921 that killed up to 300 must still be
approved by Oklahoma's Legislature.

A state commission on Friday recommended the payment of reparations for one of
the nation's deadliest racial clashes: a little-known rampage in 1921 by a white
mob in Tulsa that killed as many as 300 people, most of them black.

The 11-member panel called for direct payments to survivors and victims'
descendants, scholarships, and a tax checkoff program to fund economic
development in Tulsa's mostly black Greenwood area and a memorial to the dead.

"This way we will be helping people first, which is what we are supposed to be
doing," said Jim Loyd, a member of the Tulsa Race Riot Commission.

The panel gave no specifics on how much the package would cost and offered no
details on such issues as who would get the scholarships. It also did not say
who should make the payments.

Oklahoma's Legislature set up the commission and must approve the
recommendations.

Genevieve Elizabeth Tillman Jackson, 84, a black woman who survived the riot,
said after the vote that she never thought she would see the day.

"It's great. I think the survivors should be helped, and the children of
survivors," she said.

About a half-dozen of the 80 known riot survivors watched Friday as the
commission reviewed personal accounts, newspaper stories and a subcommittee
recommendation before approving the payment of reparations.

Ten of the 11 members voted in favor of the memorial and the scholarship after
one commissioner left the meeting early. The vote was 9-1 on the direct payments
and the tax checkoff.

The riot broke out May 31, 1921, when a white lynch mob clashed with blacks who
were protecting a black man accused of assaulting a white elevator operator.

Over two days, white mobs set fire to homes, businesses and churches in
Greenwood, a thriving black business district. When the smoke cleared, the area
lay in ruins.

Many blacks left and never returned. The National Guard rounded up thousands of
others and held them at the fairgrounds, convention hall and a baseball stadium.

The commission included a survivor, historians, lawmakers and community members.
It held meetings for two years.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                                October 11, 2012

Jug commemorates 1831 riots

SECTION: Pg. 52

LENGTH: 175  words


An Ancient jug designed  to thank troops in Yeovil during a series of riots in
the 1800s will go under the hammer in Sherborne next week.

The Yeovil Riot jug, commemorating the October riots which took place in the
town in 1831, was brought to a free valuation session at Charterhouse
Auctioneers in Long Street.

The earthenware jug, defined by its silver lip, is thought to be one of 67 made
to thank the Mudford and Martock troops for their efforts to quell the violence.

Each has an inscription dedicated to the person in question.

This particular jug is dedicated to Sergeant Woolmington.

Local historian Jack Sweet previously wrote about the 1831 riot in his book More
Shocking and Surprising Somerset Stories.

He said the October riot began when William Ponsonby, the Whig Reform candidate,
was defeated by Lord Ashley in a Dorset parliamentary election in Blandford.

In Yeovil the riots were said to be the worst scenes of violence that it had
ever witnessed.

The jug is among the lots at an auction on Friday, October 19, priced between
£400 to £600.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 30


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                            September 7, 2012 Friday

Soft approach no way to tackle riots

LENGTH: 469  words


THE riots in north Belfast should not have been allowed to take place. After the
first night, the police could have cordoned off the area. The matter should have
been nipped in the bud. In previous riots, following opposition to a few
parades, very few law-breakers were arrested, and the punishments were
insufficient to deter future crimes of this type. The chief constable and the
justice minister need to take full responsibility.

Had stronger measures been taken against the previous rioters, and stiffer
sentences meted out, then there would have been serious deterrents in place
against future law-breaking. If the lesson had been learnt from the strong
reaction by police and magistrates after the 2011 London riots, then subsequent
riots in Belfast would have been less likely.

A softly, softly approach is in no one's interests, and the consequent worldwide
publicity of riotous behaviour gets Northern Ireland a bad name. Considering the
objective to attract more tourists and inward investment, these riots are a
newsworthy disaster which could lead to millions of pounds of lost income.

Of course, the best scenario is to eliminate the causes of discontent. The
Parades Commission should be abolished since it often creates more problems than
it was designed to prevent. It is also an unnecessary expense.

Instead, alternative means of defusing any dissension should be examined. For
example, any body wishing to hold a parade should be required to give eight
weeks' notice.

Then the local MPs, MLAs and other interested parties could be summoned to a
meeting, to be held at least four weeks before the proposed parade, so that
solutions can be found to arrive at a consensus for such a parade to proceed,
subject to basic conditions. There should be no playing of band instruments
outside those places of worship where this might cause offence.

If there is any infringement of such a rule, then the members of that band, and
those who engaged them, should be fined and the proceeds given to that
particular church.

Resident representatives could be invited to attend and make representation at
such meetings.

However, it may be noted that residents do not own the roads over which others
have a right to pass.

Nevertheless, the meeting should give ample scope to reconcile varying
viewpoints. In the unlikely event that they cannot agree, the matter might then
be referred for adjudication to the Speaker of the Assembly.

The wider interests of the public at large need also to be taken into account,
since adverse publicity for Northern Ireland can do positive harm to peaceful,
law-abiding citizens, and the tourist industry. It is also prejudicial to
much-needed inward foreign investment. The misdeeds of the few cannot be allowed
to cause misery and financial loss for the many.

Neil C Oliver

Newtownards

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Sunday Nation (Kenya)

                                October 18, 2015

Mombasa university closed after riots

BYLINE: MOHAMED AHMED

LENGTH: 250  words


The Monday morning riots led to the destruction of property around the
university.

The main campus of the Technical University of Mombasa has been closed following
riots by students who were protesting against fees increment.
The Monday morning riots led to the destruction of property around the
university.
A garbage collection truck belonging to the Mombasa County government was also
burnt by the rioting students.
Anti-riot police were deployed in the institution to deal with the unruly
students.
The students claimed that they were not informed in advance of the raise in fees
by the university management.
Following the riots, a special senate meeting was held and the decision to
indefinitely close the university's main campus was reached.
In a statement, the senate said the decision to close the institution was
reached after the rioting students refused to be addressed by the management.
However, the university's Kwale and Lamu campuses would not be affected by the
closure, added the statement which was signed by the Vice-Chancellor Josphat
Mwatelah.
The students were ordered to vacate the halls of residence and the university's
premises by 10am Monday.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/338/1383/49/144524364148.jpg

A garbage collection truck belonging to the Mombasa County government burns
after it was it was set ablaze by rioting Technical University of Mombasa
students on Monday October 19, 2015. The university's main campus was closed
indefinitely. PHOTO | MOHAMED AHMED | NATION MEDIA GROUP

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1383


                       Copyright 2015 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Enfield Independent

                           September 16, 2013 Monday

Police ordered to pay compensation for riot damage to Enfield Sony Centre

BYLINE: Charlie Peat

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 185 words


Two years after it was destroyed in the London riots, insurance companies have
won compensation from the police to pay for looting and arson at a Sony
distribution centre.

The Sony distribution centre in Solar Way, Enfield, was burnt down during the
London riots of 2011 and the High Court last week ruled that the Mayor's Office
for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) will pay for damage caused to the centre under
the Riot Damages Act.

The building was destroyed on August 8, 2011, and the barrister for the police
argued this was a planned raid and not a result of the riot.

But Mr Justice Flaux felt otherwise and said that the group of more than 20
youths were acting "riotously."

He also felt that the police could have prevented the incident after receiving
numerous public calls after rioting in Enfield Town the previous night and with
fears they could strike again.

No amount has been set, but insurers for Sony wanted £49.5million for the damage
while insurers for the owners of the warehouse had sought £9.35million.

The centre was rebuilt and reopened by Prime Minister David Cameron on Friday,
September 14, 2012.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday

Sydney race riot accused is bailed

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141  words


A MAN accused of stamping on and kicking a man of Middle Eastern appearance
during Sydney's race riot has been granted bail, despite new laws aimed at
keeping riot suspects in jail.

The NSW Supreme Court yesterday overturned a local court's decision to keep
19-year-old Mitchell John Newby in custody on charges of riot and affray.

It was the first test of the new bail laws in the aftermath of the riot at North
Cronulla Beach on December 11.

Newby, from Toongabbie in Sydney, was arrested and charged with riot and affray,
after he was allegedly identified from video and photographic footage as one of
several people who stormed a train at Cronulla station that day.

The train was carrying two men of Middle Eastern appearance who were attacked by
a mob.

Justice Brian Sully said the new laws did not remove the right for a person to
apply for bail.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            November 11, 2005 Friday

France on fire II

LENGTH: 152 words


The author of "The French riots" identifies the riots as a "Muslim/Arab jihad,"
but I must take exception to this. The French riots are not religious in nature.

As reported elsewhere in Wednesday's paper ("Rioting forces 'moment of truth'"),
the riots are taking place because immigrants feel as though they are
second-class citizens, unwanted by society and government, not for any religious
or theological reason.

By describing the riots as "Muslim" and "jihad," the author is perpetuating
destructive misconceptions in this country; misconceptions that say all Arabs
are Muslim and all Arab actions are religious in nature. The riots may be taking
place in France, but this type of reporting is damaging to American citizens as
well.

Other news sources have gone out of their way to report that Islam has nothing
to do with the events in France. Why is the Trib willing to print something
false?

Sarah Fisher

Ross

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

If Modi becomes PM,riots likely to follow: Sheila

BYLINE: Ambika Pandit TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 308 words


New Delhi: Chief minister Sheila Dikshit took her party's anti-Modi rhetoric to
a new height on Saturday when she warned the people at a rally in Ballimaran
that if the Gujarat CM became Prime Minister,there was a possibility of riots
breaking out.Union minister Kapil Sibal insinuated further and said wherever
Modi went,riots invariably followed.These barbs came just an hour and a half
after Modi's own rally near Red Fort where he spared no opportunity to attack
Congress."Aur woh jo hain Narendra Modi...agar woh satta mein aa gaye to aisa na
ho ki yahaan dange ho jayein (If Narendra Modi comes to power,it is possible
that you may see riots)," Dikshit told the crowd.Sibal simply lashed out: "Modi
jahaan jatey hain wahaan riot ho jata hai.Gujarat mein Godhra aur UP mein gaye
toh phir riot ho gaya (Wherever Modi goes there is a riot.Godhra happened in
Gujarat and when he went to UP there was a riot).He wants to be PM.BJP has only
one hero,Modi,and in the court of this hero,all decisions are his.He makes us
all stand in that court and passes verdict where he gives himself 100 and
everyone else zero.I want to ask where the hero was in 2002 during Godhra riots
?" He went onto warn people to make the right choice."If you vote for the BJP
led by Modi then you may end up in a situation that led to 1947.If you vote for
Congress then you can hope for a secular,independent India that emerged after
Partition.Don't waste your votes on AAP.They have ridden into politics using the
Anna Hazare movement.They are not going to provide a stable government," Sibal
added.Dikshit said that BJP was misleading people and had no vision for Delhi.To
drive home her point,she gave the example of BJP's campaign on onion prices.She
said even though onion prices have come down to Rs 25 per kilo,BJP is still
accusing Congress of mismanaging the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 12:22 PM GMT

Riot law reform will help firms survive;
Small businesses offered 'new for old' payouts in easier claim process

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 468 words


A major overhaul of riot laws will make it easier for small businesses in London
to receive proper compensation after future disturbances.

A report commissioned by Home Secretary Theresa May says businesses affected by
riots should receive "new for old" compensation and that compensation for damage
to vehicles should be provided for the first time. Other key recommendations
include making it easier to apply for compensation and the creation of a Home
Office-backed "claims bureau" staffed by insurance industry experts.

However, large firms will lose out because of a plan to cap payouts to prevent
huge awards such as the £70 million a judge recently told the Met to give Sony
for the destruction of its Enfield warehouse in the 2011 riots.

Unveiling the report today, policing minister Damian Green said the proposals to
the Riot Damages Act were "sensible" and signalled that many would be
implemented after a public consultation. In an article for the Evening Standard
on this page, he says that ministers want to help small firms and that
substantial changes were needed to the "antiquated" Act, which became law in
1886.

The report, produced for the Home Office by Neil Kinghan, a former senior civil
servant and director of the Local Government Association, also calls on local
authorities to draw up emergency plans "for a riot-recovery service to provide
co-ordinated advice and support" to those affected by disorder.

Interim payments before claims are settled in full are also proposed. Mr Kinghan
calls on ministers to "allow flexibility" so that payments received by victims
from charities "or other non-public sector bodies" are not used as a reason to
reduce the compensation awarded. Power to rule on whether a riot has occurred in
the capital - and whether compensation payments can be made by the taxpayer -
will be given to the deputy mayor for policing, who will be required to seek
advice from the Met and make a decision within seven days of the disorder.

Unveiling his report, Mr Kinghan said that victims and the worst affected areas
were still suffering the consequences of the riots and that legal changes were
needed to minimise the impact of any future disorder.

"I hope that riots will not occur again," he said. "But it is essential that we
should learn from the events that followed the riots." Today's report reveals
that taxpayers have paid £35.2 million under the Riot Damages Act relating to
the 2011 riots, but that this could "still grow to £100 million" or more.

Many affected businesses have complained that legislation has proved
bureaucratic and that payouts have been insufficient to cover losses.

Under the proposed reforms, police will remain liable to pay compensation after
riots. The Home Office will be expected to continue to reimburse forces if the
bill spirals.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Mining riot early fight for rights

BYLINE: PAUL MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 365 words


JACK O'Shea chuckles and his eyes gleam as he looks back on December 16, 1929.

He was a 20-year-old Hunter Valley coalminer then, protesting with about 4000 of
his colleagues in what became known as the Rothbury Riot.

Mr O'Shea remembers the day when northern coalfields men rose against "scab"
labourers being used down the pits, from which they had been locked out, and
police shot and killed a miner who was sitting by the road with his back to the
troubles.

Mr O'Shea, now 96 and living in a Cessnock aged care home, has been interviewed
for a $350,000 television documentary on the 16-month lockout that culminated in
the riot.

A spokesman for Newcastle-based Lockout Productions, Greg Hall, said three men
who were at the riot had been interviewed.

"Jack O'Shea, Jim Comerford from Kurri and Tom McMahon from Wollongong are the
only ones we know who were at the riot and are still alive," Mr Hall said.

"We would love to hear from anyone else who was either at the riot or has
memorabilia, old photographs, diaries, letters or anecdotal stories from people
who were there.

"The lockout and riot were a pivotal time in Australian history as the workers
fought for their rights, and its interesting to note how relevant it remains
today as the Federal Government has tough new industrial relations legislation
before Parliament which workers and the union movement oppose."

Mr O'Shea said police had shot at him and his colleagues during the riot, and
men either side of him were injured as they fled.

The miners eventually went back to work on lower pay.

"But the union gained strength and its members became more militant from what
happened during the lockout and the riot," Mr O'Shea said.

A ROBBERY has delayed by at least two months production of a documentary on the
1929 northern coalfields lockout and Rothbury Riot.

Lockout Productions spokesman Greg Hall said the company's office in the
Newcastle Trades Hall King Street building was ransacked on Tuesday night.

Camera gear, laptop and desktop computers with interviews and material gathered
in the past four years was stolen.

The documentary is funded by Hunter Valley investors, including a $75,000 outlay
by the region's mineworkers trust.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CATALYST: Jack O'Shea, who was in the 1929 Rothbury riot, says it
helped to strengthen unionism.- Picture by Peter Stoop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Accused rioters appear in court; Some of the dozens facing charges start their
journeys through justice system

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 307  words


A Coquitlam man charged for his alleged part in the Stanley Cup riot will spend
Christmas in jail.

Ryan Dickinson, 20, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court Friday and was
ordered held in custody pending a Jan. 6 arraignment date.

Dickinson is charged with participating in a riot and two counts of mischief
over $5,000. He was held in custody after being picked up more than a week ago
for breaching his probation.

The day before he was taken in, Dickinson told The Province he was concerned
about the riot charges because he had been out on bail pending a 2010 aggravated
assault charge at the time of the June 15 riot.

In October, he was given a year's probation for a downgraded conviction of
assault causing bodily harm, which he said happened "while I was drunk at the
time."

Dickinson, a sheet-metal apprentice working at a window repair company, said he
was totally sober the night of the Stanley Cup riot and got "caught up in the
moment.

"These charges are a real concern," he said. "I just started a job I really
like.

"I had a curfew at the time and ended up going down," added Dickinson of his
trip into downtown Vancouver. "I didn't have any liquor, I was just being
stupid."

A number of others charged in the riot made their first appearances. Jerry
Wernicke, 28, who is charged with participating in a riot and mischief, and
Richard Dorosh, 18, who is charged with participating in a riot and
break-and-enter, had their next court appearances set over to Jan. 26.

Mobeen Mohammed, 33, who faces break-and-enter and participating-in-a-riot
charges, will be in court Jan. 12 along with Emmanuel Alviar, 20, who is charged
with participating in a riot and two counts of mischief.

In all of Friday's cases, a Crown prosecutor made notice they will seek to get
an application to have the court proceedings televised.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Les Bazso - PNG; Jerry Wernicke; Les Bazso - PNG;  Emmanuel Alviar
(above) leave court Friday after their first appearance to face charges. Both
will return to court next month.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WEAK ARM OF LAW BLAMED FOR RIOTS;
Police failure to crack down let rampages spread

BYLINE: STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 288 words


MOST of the summer riots were yesterday officially blamed on police weakness.

Yobs across England trashed and looted after seeing how ineffective London's
force were at dealing with the initial outbreak, an inquiry said.

That was the "sole trigger" for the riots spreading, the Riots Communities And
Victims Panel ruled.

It estimated the total cost at up to £500million. The report said: "Lack of
confidence in the police response to the initial riots encouraged people to test
reactions in other areas.

"Rioters believed they would be able to loot and damage without being challenged
by the police. In the hardest-hit areas, they were correct."

The report also blasted police for failing to protect victims trapped in their
homes. The first riots in Tottenham, north London, were caused by police
shooting dead Mark Duggan, 29, but there was not "one single reason" why they
spread.

The report said: "We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers
to a desire to attack society."

Chairman Darra Singh warned: "Our research led us to conclude riots of this
nature will happen again unless immediate action is taken."

Police must be clear about the balance between protecting commercial property
and protecting homes, the report said.

The panel estimated 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved" in August's
riots, in cities including Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Bristol,
Gloucester and Nottingham.

More than 4,000 suspects were arrested, nearly all known to police. Five people
died during the rioting and an estimated 5,000 crimes were committed.

The Star Says: Page 6 steve.hughes@dailystar.co.uk ? 15,000 took part ? 4,000
arrests ? Five people killed ? 5,000 crimes were committed ? £500million cost of
riots

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT: Mark Duggan
MOCKING: Youth gets close-up of cop
¦ SCENE OF THE CRIMES : Hooded lout last August. Below: Mob attack a shop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

BJP triggered Muzaffarnagar riots: Akhilesh

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, April 1 -- Targeting the BJP, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and
Samajwadi Party State president Akhilesh Yadav blamed the party for the
Muzaffarnagar riots and said if Narendra Modi comes to power, the country will
witness widespread communal tension.

"The BJP has only one target - to come to power by any means. It triggered riots
in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli to divide society on religious lines. It was
Samajwadi Party that saved the State and the people from the communal
conflagration. If the BJP comes to power at the Centre, the country could see
large-scale communal riots," Yadav said while addressing rallies in Saharanpur,
Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar on Monday.

Yadav said the riots in Muzaffarnagar were unfortunate and should not have
happened as they led to huge loss of life and property. He said the Army was
deployed at the right time and this controlled riots in urban areas but the
violence had spread to rural areas and this were unfortunate.

"The people behind this riot will never be spared and the State Government is
firm on preventing any such incidents further," he said and added: "It is very
easy to become communal but extremely tough to maintain secular credentials."

Yadav reached the rally venue at Chandpur in Bijnor almost an hour late but the
massive crowd, which comprised a large number of Muslims, patiently waiting for
him. Enthused by the crowd, Yadav, whose speech is generally short, spoke for 40
minutes. He berated his political opponents and apprised the people about the
development works his Government had carried out in the last two years.

"The BJP is a master in spreading canard. Modi says that Gujarat is the highest
producer of milk while everyone knows that Uttar Pradesh is first in milk
production in the country. The Gujarat company, Amul, came to UP not after
taking permission from Modi. It came here to bolster its business fortunes,"
Yadav said.

He also attacked Modi for his statement on lions. "Let me tell you that the
lions of Gujarat will be caged in the ravines of Chambal and will not be allowed
to roam free," he said as the crowd shouted Mulayam Singh Yadav zindabad,
Akhilesh Yadav zindabad.

Earlier, addressing another election rally at Gangoh town of Saharanpur district
that falls in Kairana parliamentary constituency, Akhilesh Yadav said that Modi
and his development model would never be a challenge to SP in the Lok Sabha
election. He said the Modi hype was artificial as the BJP had spent over one
thousand crore rupees on publicity but the SP would depend on its pro-people and
pro-minority policies.

Addressing the meeting in support of party's young candidate from Kairana, Nahid
Hasan, Yadav said the work done by his Government included distribution of
laptops, launching scholarship scheme for minority members and women, and health
schemes that are benefiting the masses.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 29, 2014

Nitish blames Congress,BJP for 80's, 2002 anti-Sikh riots

LENGTH: 147  words


Patna: Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday held the Congress governments
at the Centre and in the state responsible for 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 1989
Bhagalpur riots and said the BJP government in Gujarat was accountable for the
2002 riots in that state.



All these riots were blots on the country for which all Indians were ashamed,
Kumar said and asked those responsible for the carnage to own up responsibility.


"Nobody could escape accountability for these incidents," the chief minister
told reporters in reply to a question on Congress Vice- President Rahul Gandhi's
interview to a national news channel yesterday.

In the interview, Rahul Gandhi said the Narendra Modi government was responsible
for "abetting and pushing" the 2002 Gujarat riots while the Congress government
tried to stop the 1984 riots. The Congress leader, however, offered no apology
for the violence.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Four more charged in Cup riot

BYLINE: Mike Hager, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 143  words


Prosecutors have approved more charges against four people in connection with
the June 15 Stanley Cup Final riot in downtown Vancouver.

The four face 13 charges. A total of 129 charges have now been approved by the
Crown against 47 rioters.

Facing charges are:

. Johnny Chou, 19, of Burnaby, charged with participating in a riot and two
counts of breaking and entering.

. Jacob Pateman, 18, of North Vancouver, charged with participating in a riot
and breaking and entering.

. Rag Gu Rock-Gue Kim, 19, of Kelowna, charged with participating in a riot,
arson and two counts of mischief over $5,000.

. Matthew Schulz, 19, of Burnaby, charged with participating in a riot, theft
under $5,000 and two counts of mischief over $5,000.

Police said more than 22,000 unique visitors have accessed their riot website,
Riot2011.vpd.ca, in the last week, generating 145 new tips.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Influx of prisoners after riots 'has led to serious incidents'

BYLINE: Alan Travisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 211 words

ABSTRACT

Chief inspector of prisons Nick Hardwick says decision to remand more than 65%
of riot defendants in custody had resulted in problems at London jails

FULL TEXT

An influx of more than 1,000 prisoners in the immediate aftermath of the riots
that hit England last month has fuelled gang culture in prisons and led to
serious incidents, the chief inspector of prisons said on Wednesday.

In his first annual report, Nick Hardwick said the decision to remand more than
65% of riot defendants in custody had already resulted in incidents at Feltham
young offenders prison and Brixton prison, in London, and "significant numbers"
of people being placed on suicide watch.

Hardwick said that although the prison service had coped with the influx of riot
-related inmates, there had been serious tensions involving existing prisoners
who had been moved to other prisons to make way for the new inmates.

But he also reported that his prison visits in the last four weeks had revealed
first-time inmates on riot charges had been joining gangs for their own
protection.

He said the gym at Feltham was wrecked during an incident, and young prisoners
got out onto a roof space before the situation was brought under control. At
Brixton, prisoners refused to go back to their cells.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday

Three riot accused win elections;
Fula Vyas, Girish Prajapati and Bipin Patel get thumbs up from voters; social
activists term their victory as 'unfortunate'

BYLINE: Nikunj Soni

LENGTH: 313  words


Fula Vyas, Girish Prajapati and Bipin Patel, all accused in two different riot
cases won the civic elections on Tuesday. Patel is an accused in the Gulberg
Society massacre case while Vyas and Prajapati are accused in the Naroda Gam
massacre.

Social activists have termed the victory as 'unfortunate' in a democracy. "It is
very unfortunate," said Teesta Setalwad of Centre for Justice and Peace (CJP),
an NGO representing the 2002 Godhra riot accused. She further said that the BJP
gave tickets to the riot accused and it shows that the party has no remorse for
the 2002 communal riots that killed hundreds of people.

"They have no respect for the due process of justice," she said. Another civil
rights activist and lawyer, Mukul Sinha said, "This is a very dangerous trend.
The manner in which the party is able to promote people, who are directly
accused of involvement in riots and encounter is very dangerous. It is time
people realise the game plan."

The BJP had allocated tickets to four candidates who were facing serious charges
in the 2002 communal riots. Patel was given ticket in 2005 and was repeated this
time too.

Patel is a candidate from Meghaninagar ward. Vyas and Prajapati are candidates
from Noblenagar and Naroda respectively. Another accused in Naroda Patiya,
Kishan Korani was also a candidate from Saijpur-Bogha. But Saijpur's elections
were postponed after a Congress candidate died.

All three accused candidates won the elections with a high margin.

Vyas and Prajapati have been accused of being part of a violent mob, attempting
robbery, causing damage to property and causing injury. Both the leaders are at
present out on bail.

Eighty nine people were killed by an enraged mob in the Naroda Patiya massacre
while nine were killed and two went missing in the Naroda Gam incident on
February 28, 2002. The Gulberg society massacre saw 69 people being killed.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2010 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Gold Coast Bulletin

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                  Main Edition

Riot police may rein in wild Dogs fans

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 198  words


RIOT police could be called in to control unruly Bulldogs fans who face being
segregated at future NRL games after violence marred the club's latest game
against Wests Tigers in Sydney.

Four men were yesterday charged with affray following a wild brawl during the
game at Telstra Stadium on Friday night.

NSW Police Commissioner Ken Moroney has refused to rule out using the riot squad
at future Bulldogs games, the main fear

being the Bulldogs-Cronulla clash scheduled for the weekend of May 19-21.

Mr Moroney said an increased police presence will be in force for this game at
Telstra Stadium amid concerns it could reignite the tensions that erupted during
the Cronulla riot.

Both teams' fan base generally represent the two sides that opposed each other
in the December 11 race riot.

While Mr Moroney considered using the state's new permanent riot squad, he said
segregating the Bulldogs fans at home games also was an option.

''I do not rule out any operational strategy or tactic that I can use that
brings about a secure environment in that football

setting,'' he said.

Mr Moroney will detail his strategy to tackle the violence after a meeting with
Bulldogs officials and the NRL this week.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

Number of riot police to increase after Gezi Park protests

LENGTH: 527  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Following the recent Gezi Park protests across the country,
the National Police Department has decided to recruit more riot police and also
to provide training courses for existing riot police on how to respond to mass
demonstrations more effectively.



The protests that erupted over the government's plan to demolish Taksim's famous
Gezi Park in late May later spread to tens of cities across Turkey. During the
protests, which lasted for nearly a month, some groups of protesters clashed
with the police and shouted anti-government slogans. Millions of lira of damage
were caused to shops and other buildings located near the demonstration areas.
The lack of a satisfactory response to the protests by police has led the
National Police Department to take action. The National Police Department has
decided to increase the number of riot police units as well as to give greater
training to existing riot police officers in responding to mass demonstrations.
In addition, the police department will give riot training courses to nearly
2,000 new police officers.

However, after Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arinç claimed on July 30 through the
TRT news channel that the government had received intelligence concerning a wave
of similar protests in September and October, the National Police Department has
intensified its efforts. The police department has also decided to provide riot
training courses to specialized police officers working in counterterrorism
units and anti-smuggling and organized crime units in the cities of Ankara,
Istanbul, Bursa, Izmir and Diyarbakir.

The National Police Department has already started giving riot training courses
to 1,500 police officers and 3,500 riot police officers in Ankara. The police
officers are being instructed in mass psychology, efficient and logical methods
of intervention in social events, and the legal aspects of intervention as part
of the riot training courses. Psychological specialists also attend the courses
to train the police officers on mass psychology and effective ways to respond to
mass demonstrations without escalating tension. Additionally, the officers will
undergo special tests as part of the program. Those officers who tend to lose
their temper during the tests will be excluded from the riot program and will
not be assigned to mass demonstrations in the future.

The source within the National Police Department, who declined to be named as
civil servants had not been authorized to speak to the press, told Today's Zaman
that the problems experienced during the Gezi protests caused the police
department to question itself and raise the awareness of its officers.

A small group of environmentalists began a sit-in protest at Gezi Park in the
heart of Istanbul in late May, attempting to block the government's plan to
build an Ottoman-style barracks on the park. Following a heavy-handed police
crackdown on the peaceful protesters, thousands took to the streets and rallies
spread across Turkey. Five people, including a policeman, have died and more
than 5,000 have been injured in the clashes, according to a Turkish rights
group. (Cihan / Today's Zaman) CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Myths, mobs and moral panics - understanding the reasons for the riots

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 323 words

ABSTRACT

Ebook gives a different view from the media on the realities that sparked the
riots

FULL TEXT

I mentioned the "media and the riots" conference yesterday, which is taking
place in a week's time.

Perhaps the participants should first read an ebook entitled Mad mobs and
Englishmen? Myths and realities of the 2011 riots, which is available from
today.*

The authors, Steve Reicher and Clifford Stott, argue that the August riots were
not simply the result of mindless criminality or the result of irrational mob
mentality.

They point instead to the people's grievances - a lack of opportunity, shared
identity or empowerment - as the central factors.

In evaluating the riots, they draw together authoritative academic research with
detailed analysis of the live reports from the frontline.

They not only place the events in their historical context, but also offer
suggestions about how a repeat scenario can be avoided in future.

Reicher, professor of social psychology at St Andrews University, is regarded as
a leading expert in crowd psychology. Stott, senior lecturer in psychology at
Liverpool university, is one of Europe's leading authorities on the policing of
riots.

There has been wide praise from those who have already read the book. They
include George Akerlof, winner of the 2001 Nobel prize in economics and
professor of economics at Berkeley, who describes it "compelling evidence for an
alternative view of what really caused the uprisings."

Claudia Hammond, presenter of Radio 4's All in the Mind, said: "Anyone who
really wants to understand the riots should read this."

And Superintendent Roger Evans, former deputy commander of the Metropolitan
police's territorial support group, believes it to be a "reasoned and
intelligent approach in stark contrast to the moral panics apparent in
Westminster and the media in the immediate aftermath of the riots."

*Published by Constable and Robinson. Kindle price: £2.39 on amazon.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

Protecting installations: Capital to get new anti-riot force

LENGTH: 274  words


The interior ministry has decided to form an anti-riot force to counter sit-ins
and processions in the federal capital, it is learnt.

A source at the interior ministry said that the new force is to be set up to
secure key installations in the capital as the security of these sensitive
places is compromised when police are moved from these installations to counter
a sit-in or procession in Islamabad.

He said that the riot police would be called in to tackle various situations and
for a variety of different purposes, including controlling riots, dispersing or
controlling crowds, maintaining public order or protecting people or public
property.

The ministry is said to have given the go-ahead to the inspector general of
police (IGP) to take necessary measures to translate the concept of ant-riot
force into reality. He said that the force would consist of 2,000 policemen who
would be trained on modern lines at the police lines in Islamabad. He added that
police high-ups have already made arrangements to ensure training at the
earliest.

The riot police, he said, would be part of the regular police who could assume
the role of riot police in certain situations within the regular police force.

As many as 2,000 personnel would be taken from the current strength of the
Islamabad police and trained till the new contingent is recruited.

He added that the force would not create problem for the peaceful protesters but
would come into action if anyone tried to ransack public property. The anti-riot
police will also be given special equipment to help protect themselves against
any attack.

Published in The Express Tribune, December 5th, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 5, 2014 Wednesday

Paucity of judges hit trial of re-opened Bhagalpur riots cases

LENGTH: 334  words


The trial of the re-opened cases relating to the 1989 Bhagalpur communal riots
in Bihar has been hit by an acute paucity of judges, a senior lawyer said on
Wednesday.


"Trial of Bhagalpur riots cases has been badly hit as many posts of judges have
been lying vacant for more than a year," Additional Special Public Prosecutor
Atiullah said in a letter addressed to the Patna High Court chief justice.
Atiullah said that vacant posts of judicial officers were delaying justice to
hundreds of victims of the Bhagalpur riots.
Over 1,000 people, a majority of them Muslims, were killed in the month-long
riots in Bhagalpur city in October 1989.
"The posts of third, fifth and seventh additional district and sessions judges,
earmarked for trial of Bhagalpur riot cases by the high court have been vacant
for more than one year. While post of second additional district and session
judge fell vacant after the incumbent judicial officer took over as first
additional district and session judge in June 2013," he said.
Atiullah said that it was not first time trial of Bhagalpur riots cases has come
to a halt. A similar situation cropped up due to vacant posts of judges in the
past.
"It is bound to affect and delay proceedings of the courts for trial of riot
cases," he said.
A total of 876 cases were registered by police of which chargesheets were filed
in 293. The remaining 583 cases were closed by police citing lack of evidence
for investigation.
However, 39 riot cases were reopened between 2006 and 2009 on recommendation of
a judicial committee appointed by the Nitish Kumar government.
In 2006, Nitish Kumar instituted a fresh probe to re-investigate the riot cases
that were closed by the police for lack of evidence.
The commission, headed by Justice (retd) NN Singh, submitted an interim report
in 2007. Till date, police have filed chargesheeted in 29 of 39 re-opened cases
and 10 cases were again closed.
Atiullah said a total of 346 accused have been convicted. As many as 107 have
been awarded life term.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               September 15, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Youths set to riot for kicks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 106 words


A RIOT is predicted in Belfast's Berry Street this week as the Northern Ireland
Youth Forum brings people together for a fun fight on Friday night.

As part of this year's Culture Night Belfast on Friday, the NIYF in conjunction
with Champions 4 Change are staging a non-violent riot.

Participation Worker at Champions 4 Change, Michelle Nolan, said: "This
Alternative Riot is what young people have came up with as an alternative to
recent contention. Traditionally riots can be events about anti-social behaviour
and violence."

The Alternative Riot is on between 5-6pm in Berry Street, part of Culture Night
Belfast on Friday, September 20.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2013 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

RIOTS HUNT: MAN T0 FACE COURT;
Warilla surfer turns himself in to police Warilla man, 20, to face court

BYLINE: SARAH ALLELY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 323 words


WARILLA surfer Craig Sala woke yesterday morning to see his photo published
among 20 Cronulla race riot suspects.

Shortly after, he walked into Warilla Police Station, with his mother and two
teenage sisters. He was told to go to Wollongong Police Station where Sydney
detectives from Strike Force Enoggera questioned him for several hours, before
charging him with riot and affray. His family rallied around him, waiting in the
station until he was released on bail at 4pm.

Sala, 20, is the first person to have been charged after police attempted to
shame riot suspects into handing themselves in by releasing their photos to the
media this week.

Dawn Jordan said her son was at the Cronulla riots from about 10.30am on
December 11.

"I rung him on that Sunday to see if he was okay because I knew he was there. He
said he was fine. He was shocked to see his picture in the paper this morning,"
Ms Jordan said.

Friends had rung him on Wednesday night telling him he was on the television
news.

"He said this morning, 'I'll go in and do the right thing.' This is his first
time in a police station, it's his first offence. He's definitely not racist.
He's got friends from every culture in the world."

Ms Jordan said her son did not receive the infamous text message calling for
Aussies to rally in Cronulla and bash "Lebs and wogs" that hot Sunday.

"He definitely wasn't there because of that text message."

She said her son had lived in Cronulla for six months while working as a trade
assistant contractor at Kurnell. He returned to Warilla three weeks ago and was
looking for work.

She said her son had no idea he was wanted by police.

"He said 'I can't believe they've got my picture there' because he didn't do
anything. He wasn't throwing the punches, he put his arms up to protect
himself."

The mother-of-three said her son, a keen surfer, was a "really good kid".

Sala was granted conditional bail to appear in Wollongong Local Court on April
4.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                             January 4, 2016 Monday

Pictures:Zimbabwe riot police brutalise protestors - NewsDay Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 189  words


Officers of the Zimbabwe riot Police today brutalised defenceless citizens
protesting the delayed payment of December salaries and bonuses for civil
servants.

Rural Teachers Union in Zimbabwe protest against the Government-for the delay of
December salaries bonus.The protestors were dispaced by riot police.

Riot
-Police-beat-up-members-of-Rural-Teachers-Union-in-Zimbabwe-after-they-staged-a-
protest-againist-the-Government-for-the-delay-of-December salaries and
bonus-Pic-Shepherd-Tozvireva.

A-riot-police-office-confiscate protesters' placards after beating them up.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/66/145192489081.jpg

Rural Teachers Union in Zimbabwe protest against the Government-for the delay of
December salaries bonus.The protestors were dispaced by riot police.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/44/145192489356.jpg

Riot
-Police-beat-up-members-of-Rural-Teachers-Union-in-Zimbabwe-after-they-staged-a-
protest-againist-the-Government-for-the-delay-of-December salaries and
bonus-Pic-Shepherd-Tozvireva.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/90/145192489625.jpg

A-riot-police-office-confiscate protesters' placards after beating them up.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2016 NewsDay
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

Man found guilty on three charges for 2011 riot

BYLINE: DANIEL BITONTI, With reports fromThe Canadian Press

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP MAYHEM; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The first person to go on trial for participating in the 2011 Stanley Cup riot
was found guilty on three charges Thursday afternoon.

The riot, which took place in Vancouver on June 15, 2011, was a black mark for
the city and eventually led to charges against more than 100 people.

Spencer Kirkwood was found guilty of participating in a riot, mischief and
breach of bail.

Mr. Kirkwood, who said in his defence that he was too drunk to remember rioting,
pleaded not guilty to the charges in February and, by doing so, became the first
person to go to trial. According to a Crown counsel spokesperson, 138 people
accused in the riot have already pleaded guilty to their roles in the mayhem.

Provincial Court Judge Conni Bagnall said Mr. Kirkwood's intentions were clear
and he was not too drunk to understand he was doing something wrong.

Mr. Kirkwood will be sentenced on April 9.

Perhaps the most damaging evidence against the 26-year-old presented in court
was a video that shows Mr. Kirkwood pumping his arms outside a
telecommunications store on the night of the riot. As the crowd hollers their
approval, he heaves a long wooden barricade through glass that had only moments
earlier been shattered by another man, who kicked it in first.

The court heard that two days after the riot, Mr. Kirkwood reported himself to
police when he saw footage of the video.

But the saga of the riot, which has now stretched on for almost two years, isn't
quite over yet. The Crown counsel spokesperson said another 12 individuals
accused in the riot have "set their matters to trial," though specific dates for
them were not given.

The riot took place after the Vancouver Canucks lost to the Boston Bruins in
Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals. Hundreds of people took to the streets with
hammers, fire accelerants and balaclavas in a rampage of destruction, arson and
assault. Tens of thousands of innocent people were trapped, trying to flee the
escalating violence.

Vancouver police held off responding for several crucial minutes, enough time
for a handful of troublemakers to become a mob. The police said the delay was to
avoid injury to innocent bystanders.

The riot left millions of dollars in damages and led to a massive investigation.
Vancouver police were forced to defend themselves on multiple occasions as
criticisms were made that the investigation was slow to lay charges.

Many commentators across the country called the riot a national embarrassment.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Jacksonville Daily Progress (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

Jacksonville Riot win Ross Stewart Invitational soccer tourney

BYLINE: Jacksonville Daily Progress, Texas

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 489 words


June 16--JACKSONVILLE -- The Jacksonville Riot (U-12) soccer team won its third
high profile tournament of the season last weekend by defeating the Oak Cliff
Pumas 3-2 in the finals of the Ross Stewart Memorial Invitational tournament at
Russell Creek Park in Plano.

The Riot, members of the Jacksonville Soccer Association, were competing in the
recreational division of the tourney which was only open to teams having
finished first or second in a North Texas Soccer sanctioned tournament during
the year.

Jacksonville opened play early Saturday morning by blanking Longview Fuego 99 by
an impressive 6-0 margin, which avenged a loss to the Fuego earlier in the
season.

In their next outing on Saturday afternoon, North Texas Soccer Association's
Galary 99 outlasted the Riot 3-2.

Jacksonville recovered by bouncing back to shutout FC Forza 4-0 on Saturday
night to advance into Sunday's semi-finals.

In their semi-final match, the Riot thumped the Dallas East Jaguars 2-0 to
advance into the finals later in the day.

A tired bunch of Riot fed off the energy of the large contingent of Jacksonville
fans that had made the trip over to support the team as the Riot were able to
get past the Oak Cliff Pumas 3-2 in the championship match.

The Pumas advanced to the finals by edging the North Texas Galaxy 99 5-4 on
Sunday morning.

Other tournament wins this season for the Riot came at the Nacogdoches Cup &
Games Spring Shootout, where the Riot went through the field undefeated in
capturing the crown, and at the 3rd annual Jalapeno Tree Spring Shootout, held
at Lindsey Park in Tyler.

The Riot defeated Tyler FC International 3-1 to earn the top prize in that
prestigious event.

Team members are Adrian Sotelo, Jose "Roy" Martinez, Casey Johnson, Enrique
Rocha, Devin Vasquez, Eduardo Castillo, Brayden Bauer, Jack Oden, Jonathan
Mireles, Cesar Guerrero, Mason Brashear and Jose "Nato" Escareno. Other team
members are Gamaliel "Toti" Mandujuano, Jacob Maldonaldo, Austin Pierce, Jordan
Meza, Cobie Hamilton and Emilio Meza.

Guest players during the Plano tournament were Josue Rodriquez and Kevin Perez
from Mount Pleasant United.

Team coaches for the Riot are Alan Neva (head coach) and Jose Carmona
(assistant).

Sergio Hernandez serves as the squad's team manager.

Conditioning coaches are J. J. Martinez, Alberto Escareno and Pedro Mireles Jr.

Cherokee County CO-OP and Smith Auto Salvage are the Riot's sponsors.

For more information about the Jacksonville Soccer Association, visit
www.jacksonvillesoccer.org or call 1-800-991-4JSA.

Sergio Hernandez contributed to this story.

To see more of the Jacksonville Daily Progress, or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.jacksonvilleprogress.com. Copyright (c) 2011,
Jacksonville Daily Progress, Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110616-JD-Jacksonville-Riot
-win-Ross-Stewart-Invitational-soccer-tourney-0616-20110616

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JD


                   Copyright 2011 Jacksonville Daily Progress

                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 3, 2015 Friday

Vadodara riots: Residents say cops violated their human rights;
8 Hindu residents write to human rights panels against cops

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 245  words


8 Hindu residents write to human rights panels against cops

Vadodara: Alleged human rights violations by the police after last month's
communal riots in Vadodara's Fatehpura area have resulted in the area's Hindu
residents petitioning the state and national human rights commissions.

On Thursday, eight Hindu residents sent petitions to both the Gujarat Human
Rights Commission and the National Human Rights Commission complaining against
the ways of Vadodara police in dealing with residents after the June 7 riots.
The petitioners said that if police were unable to protect them, the state
government should permit them to commit mass suicide.

The petitioners said Vadodara police personnel had picked up a number of Hindu
residents without there being any evidence against them regarding their
involvement in the riots and beat them up while asking them to admit their
involvement in causing the riots in the city.

"The riots broke out after a Shiva idol in a temple in Fatehpura was found to be
damaged. Right after the riots, the police picked up Deepak More, the manager of
the temple, and beat him hard asking him to accept that it was he who had
damaged the idol to create communal tension in the area and thereby gather funds
for the temple," said Niraj Jain, the lawyer of residents who wrote to the two
human rights panels.

Jain had filed a petition against the police in the matter in a court in the
last week of June.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      June 4, 2014 Wednesday 11:10 PM GMT

Riot Act in line for shake-up following 2011 violence which rocked UK;
Home Office wants to update Act to make it fit for the 21st century

BYLINE: By liverpoolecho Administrator

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 306 words


The Government is to reform the Riot Damages Act in the wake of violence that
hit              Liverpooland other cities in 2011.

The Home Office wants to update the Riot Damages Act (RDA) - which was written
in 1886 - to make it fit for the 21st century.

The proposals would improve and modernise the way that compensation is paid to
people and businesses who suffer loss or damage to their property caused by
riots.

It follows an independent review of the RDA by Neil Kinghan, who was
commissioned by the Government to assess whether the Act was fit for purpose
after major cities were affected by serious public disorder in the summer of
2011.

Merseyside Police Authority made a special grant application to the Government
to meet the bills for the street riots - estimated at £2.8m.

The claim was based on two separate costs - operational (police overtime pay,
etc) and those arising under the Riot Damages Act.

But the Government has acknowledged that the 1886 act needs updating in the
event of future riots.

The proposals unveiled by the Policing Minister Damian Green include:
allowing higher value settlements by providing "new for old" replacements for
destroyed or damaged goods;              increasing the time limit in which
people can make claims applications;              allowing people to submit
claims electronically, thereby speeding up and simplifying the process;
including compensation for damage to vehicles, which were previously not covered
by the Act.              The Home Office also proposes implementing a cap
limiting the amount insurance companies can reclaim from the Government. The
changes will now be subject to a consultation exercise so the public, police and
business community can contribute to how the Act is reformed.

For all the latest news from across Merseyside, click here

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Riots dampen country's investment climate

BYLINE: Zhang Jianhua in Hanoi

LENGTH: 786  words


Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

BJP team to visit riot-hit Bharatpur

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 174 words


NEW DELHI: BJP president Nitin Gadkari has formed a team of MPs, led by the
party's MP from Bhagalpur in Bihar Shahnawaz Hussain, to visit the riot-affected
area of Bharatpur to meet family members of victims and submit a report.

The team will visit the Gopalgarh area of Bharatpur district where riots
occurred on September 15 and meet victims, including families of those allegedly
killed in police firing. Eight people were killed in the riots involving two
communities.

Hussain will be accompanied by three other BJP MPs -- Devji Bhai Patel (Jalore,
Rajasthan), Rajendra Aggarwal (Meerut) and Ram Shankar Katheria (Agra) - besides
four MLAs from Rajasthan. The BJP team will leave for Gopalgarh on Tuesday and
return the same day.The Congress government in Rajasthan has already asked for a
CBI inquiry into the riots.

The riot-affected communities are unhappy with the compensation offered by the
government to family members of those killed.

The families are also demanding action against the police personnel.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday

Idioms

BYLINE: By Philip Leetch

SECTION: YOUNGPOST; Idioms; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 354 words


Read the riot act

Mrs Chan was late for class and we went wild. Johnny was dancing on the desk and
everyone was shouting.

Then Mr Ho came in and read us the riot act.

Mr Ho, in other words, gave you a lecture about bad behaviour and being like a
class of kindergarten children, and threatened you all with a detention.

To read the riot act means to give someone a good telling off, or scolding, to
use a rather old-fashioned word. The origin is straightforward and historical.

A riot is a disturbance, people fighting in the street, breaking windows and so
on.

An Act is a British law made by Parliament. The Riot Act of 1714 forbade gangs
of more than 12 people gathering and making a lot of noise.

If a riot occurred, a magistrate would come and read out part of the Act as a
warning. If you did not go away after the Act had been read, you were in serious
trouble.

Soldiers could fire without any more warning and the punishments for rioting
were severe. The law was finally changed in 1973, but the idiom remains.

Bury the hatchet

A hatchet is an axe. To bury is to dig a hole and put something in the ground,
as with buried treasure.

Knowing that, you can begin to understand the idiom.

The war axe or tomahawk was one of the main weapons of the tribesmen living in
the area of North America below the Great Lakes. They had the custom of burying
axes when peace was made between groups or tribes.

A famous occasion was when the Five Nations formed a league before the Europeans
arrived.

The French and English settlers in the area who had a lot of dealings with these
people soon learned the custom, and when they made peace with them after various
periods of war they too buried hatchets to symbolise the end of fighting.

The very first example of the phrase was recorded in 1753.

Later, the US government used the ceremony even with southern tribes that did
not use it themselves.

The phrase also came to have much wider use than states of war. Any two people
who have been having an argument can now shake hands and agree to bury the
hatchet.

The phrase "to raise the hatchet" and return to war exists, but is uncommon.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: Illustrations by Harry Harrison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Accused rioter held for breach of probation for assault and robbery

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 289  words


A Coquitlam man charged with offences relating to the Stanley Cup riot will
remain in jail until at least Monday after breaching a prior probation.

Ryan Dickinson, 20, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court on Thursday and was
held in custody over the weekend pending a bail hearing.

Dickinson, a sheet-metal apprentice, is charged with participating in a riot,
two counts of mischief over $5,000 and a breach of an undertaking. Those charges
were made public on Wednesday.

At the time of the June 15 riot, Dickinson was already dealing with an
aggravated assault and robbery charge from a 2010 incident.

In October, Dickinson was given a year's probation after the robbery charge was
dropped and he was convicted of assault.

In a Province interview after the riot charges were made public, Dickinson
admitted he was out past his court-ordered cur-few the night of the riot.

"I was just caught up in the moment and was very stupid," Dickinson said.

Dickinson said he knew there would be consequences for a breach of the probation
and admitted "these new charges are a real concern."

During the Stanley Cup riot a drunken mob flipped cars, lit them on fire,
smashed store windows and looted stores. The Vancouver Police Department has
been analyzing more than 1,500 hours of video footage they gathered from the
infamous night.

Police also announced on Wednesday that John Anthony Sawicki, 19, of Surrey is
charged with participating in a riot, mischief over $5,000 and two counts of
arson.

Twenty three of the first 27 people charged in riot- related incidents have
either turned themselves in or have been formally arrested.

A number of people up on riot charges begin their first appearances next
Wednesday and Thursday.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday

HOPE FLOATS

BYLINE: D. P. B HATTACHARYA

LENGTH: 344  words


HOPE FLOATS

IN RIOT- SCARRED GUJARAT They bore the full frontal blowof the Gujarat riots
after the burning train of Godhra. Lost their loved ones, home and hearth as
communal hatred singed the state. Ten years after the horror, M AIL T ODAY ' S
D. P. B HATTACHARYA checks out those who survived the pain and polarisation to
rebuild their lives...

THE HIJAB CRUSADER

THE FANATICS were running riot on the roads and Noorjahan Diwan was fighting the
taboos in her house.

Diwan - belonging to a conservative Muslim family - gave up her hijab to help
out the victims of the 2002 riots. The Juhapura resident showed exemplary
courage in not just reaching out to the riot- affected but also in taking on the
fanatics, including her own husband.

A known name in Ahmedabad civil society, Diwan used to wear a burqa till riots
broke out in Ahmedabad. But she gave up the hijab and started working at the
relief camps. The decision did not go down well with her conservative family,
which could not bear the fact that a woman from the household is roaming around
without properly " covering" herself.

" My husband did not talk to me for months.

But it did not weaken my resolve," she said.

As Diwan started working with an NGO, her auto driver husband - Abdul Hamid -
got their two- year- old daughter, Musarrat, enrolled in a madrasa in Danilimda
area. " I was horrified to see my daughter donning a burqa," she recounts.

She took up the cudgels against the family and sent her daughter to Delhi for
education.

" She is 11 now," Diwan said.

Diwan mobilised women from the neighbourhood to challenge the diktats of the
religious fanatics and take control of their lives.

Hailing from a village in Himmatnagar, about 80 kms from Ahmedabad, Diwan
struggled hard to continue her education in a conservative family. She was
engaged when she was in class XI and got married after her class XII exams.

" I went to college as a mother of two and completed my graduation," she smiles.

" Initially, I did not approve of her going out of the house. Today, I am proud
of my wife," Hamid said.

encircled).

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday

Police arrests members of a gang involved in Juni Ghadi riot

SECTION: VADODARA

LENGTH: 360 words


VADODARA: Did notorious members of criminal gangs in the city play a role in the
communal riots that rocked the walled city some days ago? Police arrested two
members of a gang for their involvement in riots and also took two other
gangsters into preventive custody. Though the police have been cracking down on
criminal gangs after the riots in Juni Ghadi and Nani Chhipwad area on July 18,
it has denied any direct involvement of the gangs in instigating the riots.

The police arrested Azzharuddin alias Azzu Abdul Majid Sheikh and Tausif Sheikh,
members of the Bichhu gang led by notorious criminal, Aslam Bodiyo. The cops
said both Azzu and Taufik were present in the mob when the rioting occurred in
Juni Ghadi. "Investigations showed that both of them were in the mob that began
rioting in the walled city. So we have arrested the duo and are inquiring about
involvement of others in the riots. Prima facie it seems that the duo hadn't
instigated the mob," said a police official.

City police commissioner, Satish Sharma too said the criminal gangs didn't seem
to have a direct role in the riots. "We have taken Aslam Bodiyo and his
accomplice Munna alias Tadbuch in preventive custody. Such arrests are done to
prevent further trouble and maintain peace," Sharma told TOI. Their accomplice
Rafiq Fafda too has been taken into custody.

Many more history-sheeters are expected to be arrested to prevent untoward
incidents in the communally sensitive areas. The police had earlier arrested
four persons after their names surfaced in the communal riots that occurred in
Juni Ghadi and Nani Chhipwad. Mobs of two communities had clashed with each
other during the riots that occurred after a shop-owner had heated arguments
with an autorickshaw driver in Juni Ghadi.

While the police managed to quell the riots immediately, another round of riots
began in the same area after an hour. The cops had lobbed 16 teargas shells to
disperse the rioting mob that damaged dozens of vehicles. Five separate FIRs
were registered at the city police station and it was suspected that the riots
were instigated deliberately by some persons.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Rioters were 'unruly mob' seeking instant gratification, claims May: Home
secretary dismisses Guardian/LSE analysis But most believe poverty a factor,
says charity survey

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words


Theresa May has dismissed many of the findings of the Guardian/LSE Reading the
Riots study - the largest set of interviews with people who took part in
England's summer unrest - arguing those involved in the trouble were an "unruly
mob" who were "thieving, pure and simple".

But a report from charity the Children's Society, which surveyed 13 to
17-year-olds and adults, has found that young people across the UK believe
poverty is one of the key reasons behind the August riots. Of those questioned,
66% of adults and 57% of children believed people had rioted "to get goods and
possessions they couldn't afford to buy", according to the survey of 1,004
adults and 1,027 children.

Writing in the Mail on Sunday, the home secretary said the riots were not about
"protest, unemployment or cuts. They weren't about the future, about tomorrow
and a person's place in the world. They were about today, about now. They were
about instant gratification."

Enver Solomon, policy director at the Children's Society, said that a perceived
sense of "material deprivation" could not be overlooked as a factor behind the
riots. "This research shows that Theresa May is out of step with the majority of
children and adults in this country when she says the riots were about instant
gratification," he said. "Most people believe that the riots were caused by a
whole range of factors - and poverty and material disadvantage are at the heart
of it."

Analysis of more than 1,000 court records suggests 59% of the England rioters
come from the most deprived 20% of areas in the UK. Analysis by the Department
for Education and the Ministry of Justice of young riot defendants found 64%
came from the poorest fifth of areas and only 3% from the richest fifth.

The Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots report - which interviewed 270 people
involved in the riots - found that opportunism played a role in the riots when a
"suspension of normal rules presented them with an opportunity to acquire goods
and luxury items they could not ordinarily a&#64256;ord".

But rioters also identified a number of other motivating grievances, "from the
increase in tuition fees, to the closure of youth services and the scrapping of
the education maintenance allowance", according to the report.

Only 7% of adults and 5% of children interviewed in the Children's Society
report, Behind the Riots, believed anger at cuts had played a significant part
in the riots. But 29% of 17-year-olds cited cuts as a reason behind the unrest,
with 67% of those saying more government support was needed following the riots.

"The prospects of this age group are pretty bleak," said Solomon. "They felt
particularly cuts to public services, they are facing great uncertainty and are
particularly effected by high youth unemployment levels." One young person
interviewed as part of the report stated: "Young people aren't being prioritised
. . . the government needs to listen."

The report found one in five (19%) of children and 23% of adults believed people
had taken part "just for fun".

Many children and young people felt perception of them had deteriorated since
the riots, with 20% feeling they were viewed more negatively. "Our findings show
that there is agreement between adults and children that the government should
be providing more support to young people," said Solomon.

"This sends a clear message to central and local government that the public
would like to see more positive activities on offer to children rather than a
reduction in out-of-school youth provision. With the considerable challenges now
facing children and young people in early adulthood, the case for investing in
youth support must be taken seriously."

Captions:

Theresa May argued those rioting had not been making a political protest, but
had been 'thieving, pure and simple'

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Chandan Nagar riots, an attempt to polarize voters: SC panel

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 316 words


INDORE: Certain groups are trying to flare up communal tension ahead of assembly
election in the state in a bid to polarize voters. This was alleged by the state
co-ordinator of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, government of India,
Maulana Mohammad Umar Qasmi here on Wednesday.

Qasmi along with members of commission was in the city to investigate Chandan
Nagar riots. The commission held meeting with officials of district
administration and police and also held a public hearing of riot-affected
people. The commission will submit its report to the Union government.

He said that administration and state government has given an assurance that no
one would be allowed to flare-up communal passion in the state. But in reality
soon after the Chandan Nagar riots, tension broke out at Harda. In both cases
the cause of riots was same- carcass of animal was found in the proximity of
religious structure that led to tension. "The commission is worried over such
incidents ahead of election," said Qasmi adding that the BJP government may use
state-machinery and administration to instill fear in minds of people from a
section of society.

He also raised the issue of detention of innocents after Chandan Nagar riots.
Still 15 people are in jail. He also demanded compensation for injured and
people whose properties were damaged in the riots.

On the other hand director of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, D
Hanumantharaya expressed satisfaction over action taken by the administration
after Chandan Nagar riot.

Collector Akash Tripathi said commission is for SC whereas the communal tension
was between two communities. It was not in their jurisdiction to conduct a probe
but we answered their queries. Later they inquired about cases related to
atrocities against SC and status of SC hostels in district. We will send them
the relevant information.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday

Arun Jaitley lauds Narendra Modi for riot-free decade

SECTION: POLITICS/NATION

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW DELHI: In a bid to rid Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and the party of
the ghosts of the post-Godhra riots, the BJP has blamed Modi's opponents for
reviving sad memories from the past.

In an article "Gujarat-Ten Years After 2002", BJP leader Arun Jaitley praised
the role of the Modi government over the past "riot-free" decade saying that the
chief minister and the government overcame various odds to embark on an
"unprecedented" growth story. "Gujarat now has had a riot-free decade. It has
tried to move away from the past. It has embarked upon a road to economic
growth. The tragedy of Gujarat is that since Modi's opponents can't defeat him
politically, they hide behind NGOs and a section of the media. One can only hope
the judiciary keeps out of this political thicket and remains even handed," he
said.

The article also alleged that while the media has ignored the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots in which convictions were "negligible", it continues to highlight the 2002
riots. He counts the 2002 events among the "major riots" and expresses the hope
that the "unfortunate events will never be repeated". He said the memories of
2002 were revived by elements whose relevance existed in reviving sad memories
of the past.

"The NGOs which are actively campaigning against Gujarat in the past 10 years
have simultaneously pleaded for those who burnt the Sabarmati Express which
started the sordid saga of 2002. The UPA government chose to appoint a carefully
chosen retired judge of the Supreme Court to opine in an inquiry that the fire
in the Sabarmati Express started from inside," Jaitley said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Let SC probe and all will know who are Saharanpur rioters: Yogi Adityanath

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 543 words


On a day when the Samajwadi Party government blamed the BJP for inciting the
Saharanpur riots, Yogi Adityanath, an influential BJP leader from East UP, tells
ET's Aman Sharma that an impartial inquiry into the recent riots would put the
SP government in the dock for collusion.

The UP government has blamed the BJP for Saharanpur riots today. Isn't BJP
playing with fire in UP?

It is ironical that those who doused the fire in Saharanpur, the BJP government
at the Centre, is being blamed for igniting it. Is it not a fact that the
Allahabad HC had given a verdict in favour of the Sikhs and ordered protection
be given for the construction of a gurudwara? The police and the administration
knew that the Muslims had held a meeting, yet they didn't intervene. Ultimately,
a group of 2,000 Muslims ran riot for five hours under the leadership of a
political person who is close to CM Akhilesh Yadav. SP's own senior leader Ram
Gopal Yadav has told Parliament last week that all the 17 persons arrested for
Saharanpur riots by the Police are Muslims. So how is the BJP involved in the
riots?

SP's Naresh Agarwal has said that since the role of a BJP MP has come to the
fore, it can be said that BJP also has a role.

The fact remains that the riots stopped only after Home Minister Rajnath Singh
called the UP CM and told him to control things and also sent in 600 CRPF men to
Saharanpur who controlled the riots. The BJP government stopped the riots,
rather than starting them. I believe the UP government report also blames
administrative lapses for the riots, so by that logic, it can also be said that
the SP government has a role in the riots. Who will probe that?

Congress and SP allege a bigger design behind the repeated riots in the state
and say BJP wants to deliberately polarise the state.

There have been 430 communal disturbances in UP during the tenure of Akhilesh
government. Is BJP behind all of them? The Assembly elections in UP are in 2017
- twoand-a-half years away. BJP will storm to power in the next state elections
like we did in the LS elections in UP in 2014. It is the SP which is using
Muslim polarisation to incite riots as it knows that it doesn't stand a chance
in 2017. This government needs to be dismissed.

So why doesn't the BJP govt in Centre dismiss the UP govt?

An elected government should be allowed to continue, but things cannot be as
usual if communal riots aimed at the Hindus continue to happen in UP. I would
certainly appeal to Home Minister to impose President's Rule in UP as the state
government is failing in its basic law and order duties. I am, in fact, sure
that an inquiry by a SC Judge into all riots would reveal that SP is in fact a
party of rioters, that it has incited riots and protected those who are behind
them, and the Yadav family could find itself cooling its heels behind bars.

Political leaders say your views before the House only shows how BJP is
polarising matters in the state...

I have spoken what I needed to speak. Let the SP government ask the SC to
conduct an inquiry into all the riots. I am sure connections of many of the
present political dispensation to anti-national elements could also be revealed
from this inquiry. The country should know the truth.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

UK riots inquiry panel named by Nick Clegg

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 654 words

ABSTRACT

Deputy PM announces team to look into causes of August riots, led by chair Darra
Singh, chief executive of Jobcentre Plus

FULL TEXT

Nick Clegg has named the "grassroots" panel that will lead an inquiry into the
causes of this summer's riots, setting a November deadline for them to deliver
their first verdict.

Darra Singh, the chief executive of Jobcentre Plus and former chief executive of
Ealing and Luton councils, will chair the panel, which will also include Simon
Marcus, the founder of the Boxing Academy in London, Baroness Sherlock,
previously chief executive of the National Council for One Parent Families, and
Heather Rabbatts, a former barrister.

Rabbatts went on to become Britain's youngest ever chief executive of a council,
Lambeth, and then to senior positions in organisations as diverse as the Bank of
England, the Royal Opera House and Millwall Football club.

Clegg, during a visit to Tottenham where the first riots began earlier this
month, said that a proper analysis of the causes of the outbreaks of violence
and looting across the country was essential. "The August riots were on a scale
that many people have never seen in this country. I saw devastating scenes of
burned out shops and houses in neighbourhoods around the country. I met
traumatised families who no longer had homes," he said.

"Only by listening to people who have been affected by the riots - the victims -
will we ever be able to move on and rebuild for the long term. This is not just
about individuals, but entire communities. These victims, who stood side by side
and refused to be beaten by the senseless destruction, hold the key to how
residents, shopkeepers, parents, young people and communities can move on."

The government agreed to the inquiry under pressure from the Labour leader, Ed
Miliband, amid a rush of government suggestions of how to deal with the riots
including social media shutdowns, benefit withdrawals for offenders and a
promise of "zero-tolerance" from the prime minister.

Labour accused the Tory leadership of "knee-jerk" reactions and it later emerged
that Clegg had been pushing ministers behind the scenes for an inquiry. It will
not, however, be a full public inquiry, as Labour initially argued for, which
would have been judge-led and operated under the Inquiries Act with powers to
call witnesses. It will report to all three leaders of the parties publishing
interim findings in November and a final analysis next March.

Miliband said: "We must never excuse or justify the behaviour we saw in the
riots. But we owe it to the communities affected to listen to them about why it
happened and look at the deeper causes of the criminal behaviour. The temptation
for politicians is to reach for simplistic solutions to the issues we face as a
society."

previously chaired a commission for integration and cohesion panel for Labour in
2006. Trained as a lawyer he worked in housing advice and went on to run housing
authorities then local authorities, before moving to Jobcentre Plus.

Singh said: "This is an important opportunity. I think it is vital that we hear
straight from individuals and communities that have been affected directly and
indirectly by the riots. Along with the other panel members, I am looking
forward to hearing their views on the causes and their ideas on how similar
events can be prevented in future."

The panel has been asked to investigate six areas:

· Why people took part in riots.

· Why the riots happened in some areas and not others.

· How key public services engaged with communities before, during and after the
riots.

· What motivated local people to come together to take civic action to resist
riots in their area or to clean up after riots had taken place.

· How communities can be made more socially and economically resilient in the
future, in order to prevent future problems.

· What they think could have been done differently to prevent or manage the
riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Azam Khan is 'UP's Modi', says Syed Ahmad Bukhari

BYLINE: Pankaj Shah

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 451 words


LUCKNOW: Shahi Imam of Delhi Jama Masjid Syed Ahmad Bukhari on Saturday joined
the chorus of opposition in taking a pot shot at senior Samajwadi Party leader
Azam Khan, calling him "Narendra Modi of Uttar Pradesh". He accused Khan of
orchestrating the riots that led to massacre of Muslims and forced many to leave
their home in the riot-hit Muzaffarnagar district.

Speaking to TOI, Bukhari said that the sting operation has cleared all doubts as
to who was behind the riots. It was a couple of days ago when a sting operation
by a TV channel showed cops claiming there was political pressure to go slow on
rioters. It was claimed, Khan, the minister in charge of Muzaffarnagar, had been
directing cops when riots were unfolding. The two cops in the sting were later
transferred, casting doubts on UP government claims on impartial probe. The
sting give an ammo to the opposition to gun for the SP's Muslim face, Azam Khan,
alleging his direct involvement in fanning the riots.

"I reiterated my stand during the Friday prayers that Azam is no less than
Narendra Modi since he fanned the riots,'' Bukhari, who has been cosying up to
the Congress ally Rashtriya Lok Dal, said. The Imam said that he would certainly
attempt to go to Muzaffarnagar if Azam Khan visited the riot-hit district. "I am
getting calls from the people asking me to come there and see for myself the
condition of Muslims in the present dispensation. But I am being stopped from
going there. What can I do?" he said.

Earlier this week Bukhari was prevented from visiting riot-hit Muzaffarnagar. "I
wanted to visit riot-affected areas in Muzaffarnagar on a couple of occasions to
meet the victims and their families. But the administration did not allow me to
go. Government should take strict action against the guilty," said Bukhari. He
was detained near Ghaziabad and taken to Vasundhara PWD Guest house by the city
police.

A furious Bukhari had earlier asked Mulayam Singh Yadav to sack Azam from the
Samajwadi Party as he had "nothing to do with the people".' Bukhari claimed that
Muslims hated the SP leader. "Samajwadi Party should not give him importance and
sack him immediately," he said. He accused Khan of playing vote bank politics
with the Muslims. He said that he was looking after more than ten government
departments, but has not benefited Muslim community so far.

Due to Khan's behavior, tension has been mounting in the state, he said, adding
the state government had not fulfilled the expectation of Muslims. "We supported
Samajwadi Party in the state elections, but it has not fulfilled our
expectations after coming to power. Law and order situations has deteriorated,"
Bukhari added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

Inmate accused in CCA riot pleads 'not guilty'

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Oct. 30--NATCHEZ -- An inmate charged in the May 20 prison riot at Adams County
Correctional Facility pleaded "not guilty" Friday to the charges against him.

Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano entered the plea before federal Magistrate Judge F.
Keith Ball in Jackson, and Friday the judge appointed a public defender for
Serrano-Bejarano and set a jury trial for the matter for Dec. 3.

The defendant was indicted Oct. 3 on charges of instigating, conniving,
attempting to cause, assisting and conspiring to cause a mutiny and riot.

During the seven-hour riot in which Serrano-Bejarano is accused of
participating, a guard -- Catlin Carithers, 24 -- was killed, and other guards
were injured and taken hostage.

Previous court filings against Serrano-Bejarano allege he helped inmates access
the roof of a building where correctional officers trying to control the riot
were. Carithers was on one of the prison's roofs when he was assaulted and
received the wounds from which he died.

An affidavit filed in September alleges the defendant was one of a number of
inmates who stacked food carts in order to reach the officers on the roof.

The affidavit likewise states a participant in the riot told investigators he
had witnessed Serrano-Bejarano assaulting a hostage correctional officer during
the prison uprising.

The riot started after prison officials tried to contain a mass disobedience by
a group of prisoners known as Paisas -- an informal prison group composed of
Mexican nationals -- who wanted to express displeasure with the facility's
operations and staff.

Another inmate accused in the riot, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, pleaded guilty to
charges against him Aug. 27, and will be sentenced Nov. 19.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121030-YY-Inmate-accused-in-CCA-riot-pleads-not-guilty-1030-20121030

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat

                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

1984 riots: HC prods Centre

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 280 words


AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday asked the Union home ministry, the
state revenue department and Ahmedabad district collector seeking explanation
over the issue of compensation for damages sustained by the Sikh families during
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

A division bench of acting Chief Justice Bhaskar Bhattacharya and Justice J B
Pardiwala has asked the concerned authorities to submit affidavits in this
regard within three weeks, said advocate Kishor Paul.

Paul filed a public interest litigation on behalf of Kalgidhar Sewak Jatha, a
Sikh organization, which has demanded compensation for 60 families in Ahmedabad.
According to the petitioner organization, in the anti-Sikh riots that broke out
following assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi, Properties of 60
Sikh families were damaged and destroyed in Raipur and Saraspur areas of the
city. FIRs were also lodged in connection with the riots.

The PIL further stated that the Centre had then announced a relief package for
the riots affected. Accordingly, the riot affected families from Ahmedabad had
sought the relief, but they were refused. They communicated with central and
state governments, but their requests were not heeded.

The petition also stated that the state government had gone to the extent of
claiming that no incident of rioting had taken place in Gujarat and no step was
taken to assess the damage caused during the riots. Petitioner's counsel also
contended that the riot affected in different states like Jammu & Kashmir,
Punjab and Haryana were duly compensated and the riot affected of Ahmedabad
should be given compensation on the same line.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Can rioters be fired from their jobs?

BYLINE: Wendy Stueck

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; RIOTS IN VANCOUVER / THE LABOUR CODE; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 309 words


As police sift through thousands of videos and photographs of people involved in
Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot, employers are also studying the evidence.

Some people have already lost their jobs as a result of their alleged
involvement in the riot and others could face dismissal as their employers come
under pressure from angry customers who want to see rioters sacked.

Labour law, however, may not support an employer's right to fire a person over
acts committed by that person when he or she is not at work.

"Terminating people for just cause on the basis that their conduct has
essentially repudiated the employment agreement ... that is an extremely high
threshold to meet these days in Canada," Peter Eastwood, a labour lawyer with
Borden Ladner Gervais in Vancouver, said on Monday. "Unless you can clearly show
this [riot conduct] is tied somehow to the employment relationship, it's going
to be very difficult to say that that person has breached the employment
relationship simply by doing some horrible, obviously egregious, thing, but in
their off-duty conduct."

Companies that have policies relating to employees' use of social media or
conduct off the job could have more leeway when it comes to firing employees
over riot-related acts or social media postings, Mr. Eastwood said, adding that
he expects that the riot - and its aftermath of online vigilantism - will spur
more companies to consider adding such language to their contracts.

While some riot-related firings might not hold up in court or under the B.C.
Human Rights Code - which prohibits firing because that person has been
convicted of a criminal or summary conviction offence that is unrelated to the
employment or to the intended employment of that person - Mr. Eastwood does not
expect a flurry of wrongful dismissal or human-rights claims over riot-related
firings.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                          December 24, 2008 Wednesday
                             Web-Exclusive Edition

There's a riot goin' on;
L.A. Riots bring their dual-DJ mix to Boulder

BYLINE: Wendy Kale kale@coloradodaily.com

LENGTH: 639 words


If you go

Who:

L.A. Riots

When:

9 tonight

Where:

Fox Theatre, 1135 13th St.

Cost:

$10

www.foxtheatre.com

I

t's the weekend after Christmas, but that's not stopping local venues from
hosting a full slate of cool shows.

Many locals hunkered down and stayed in Boulder this holiday week. Now, they can
check out L.A. Riots at the Fox Theatre and the Motet's Talking Heads show at
the Boulder Theater.

L.A. Riots

Get ready to start your New Year's party a little early. That's because L.A.'s
premier electro dance party, aka L.A. Riots, is getting ready to invade the Fox
tonight.

L.A. Riots creates a pulsating DJ mix of electro sounds and the group is gaining
note around the globe.

The mixmasters -- Daniel LeDisko and Jo'B -- are also known for their work with
remixes. A-list acts Justice, Method Man and Timbaland regularly call on L.A.
Riots to join them in the recording studio.

"We're a pretty new act, but we've been part of the L.A. scene for six years,"
LeDisko said. "We were drum 'n' bass DJs and then we became producers.

"L.A. is ground zero for music and it's a jump-off point for electro music. So
we get to work and perform in our own backyard."

The DJs use the tracks they've re-worked for famous artists and incorporate them
into the live show.

"We use the mixes to make our own music," LeDisko said. "We've each DJ'd for 15
years and we have a definite signature sound.

"Now we're getting hit up to do remixes for all these acts and we play all over
the world."

LeDisko says L.A. Riots shows are very spontaneous and off the cuff.

"We do what we do and we get a feel for the crowd," LeDisko said. "We never
prepare -- we just do what comes naturally. We never have time to practice."

The DJs have performed for crowds of 20,000 to 40,000 people, so locals will be
in for a treat at the Fox.

The Motet does the Talking Heads

If something works, you have to stick with the plan.

Every Halloween, the Motet comes up with a new band to cover. The group's
already paid tribute to Madonna and Prince, but last October the band really hit
its stride.

The local groove outfit decided to perform its own twist on early Talking Heads
material -- and the show was the highlight of Boulder's infamous Halloween week.

The Motet will now revive the popular concert at the Boulder Theater. Saturday's
show will feature the same crew of top-rate players and the band will close out
2008 in '80s style.

"Every night of the Halloween run sold out," bandleader Dave Watts said. "It was
the perfect storm; we had waited so long to do this and people were ready for
it.

"Definitely having a great line-up of players helped. People were really excited
about the whole thing."

The top-rate players are returning for round two of the Motet's Talking Heads
show. The elite line-up features Kyle Hollingsworth of String Cheese Incident,
Fuzz from Deep Banana Blackout, Jans Ingber and Liza Oxnard.

"There might be some surprise tunes we throw in, but we feel the music worked
out so well the last time," Watts said. "We don't want to mess things up. If it
ain't broke, then don't fix it."

However, there will be a few subtle changes at the Boulder Theater.

The wider Boulder Theater stage will give the players the chance to really move
around and interact.

Colorful lighting effects and wide-screen projections also will accompany the
Talking Heads' music.

"This is going to be a very cool show," Watts said. "We have a great choice of
songs and the players have all made this a very unique show.

"We'll be playing Talking Heads songs from the '70s and '80s," Watts said.
"That's before the band started playing all these pop songs. That didn't get us
excited."

Watts and his band mates have future plans for their Talking Heads tribute
concert. If all goes well, the group hopes to take the show to music festivals
in 2009 and Jam Cruise 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: L.A. Riots perform tonight at the Fox Theatre. Courtesy photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

Spontaneous clashes are most common, say cops;
Cops attempt to identify pattern to curb riots in Vadodara

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 320  words


Cops attempt to identify pattern to curb riots in Vadodara

Vadodara: The Vadodara police have pulled up their socks to identify a pattern
of riots in the Culture Capital of Gujarat, so that the problem can be targeted
directly, and a solution can be brought about.

According to police, two of the main reasons for the riots in Vadodara are
spontaneous clashes due to people of different religions residing in close
proximity.

"One of the biggest reasons is that of spontaneous clashes, which arise due to
even the minutest of issues. A minor accident on the road, or a verbal spat
between rickshaw drivers, or a petty rumour which doesn't affect anybody,
snowballs into a bigger form taking the shape of riots here," Saurabh Singh, ACP
of C division in Vadodara, said.

Another reason is that Hindus reside in Muslim colonies and vice versa. There
have been several times when people of either community are forced to vacate
their homes just because they belong to another community, which leads to riots.

"What the department is currently focussing on is identifying causes of riots in
Vadodara. This step has been taken seeing the recent clashes in the city, which
are very high in number. While interrogating people and during our own
investigations, we have found out that there have been several reasons for the
riots here."

The police further said that all the reasons and causes are being currently
studied and a detailed report is being prepared to identify the frequency at
which clashes have broken out in the city.

Vadodara police by Wednesday have arrested 42 persons for the rioting that broke
out on Sunday, which also flared-up on Tuesday night. On Thursday, police
rounded them off for interrogation and arrested them. "We have been following a
rigorous procedure of detaining the suspects, interrogating them thoroughly and
arresting the accused," added Saurabh Singh.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

1 in 5 riot thugs in prison for 2nd time

BYLINE: KATE McCANN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words


ONE in five of those jailed following the 2011 London riots have been banged up
again, figures have revealed.

Experts say sentences handed down to street thugs were too short to teach them a
lesson.

Conservative MP Philip Davies, who unearthed the figures, said: "It is time we
stopped letting thugs out of prison early to continue to blight communities and
create further victims of crime.

"The public will be outraged to learn that those involved in the London riots,
which caused so much damage and upset, have been released only to commit such
serious further offences that they have been returned to prison."

Following the riots that brought parts of London to a halt five years ago, 1,014
people were locked up in prison.

More than 800 have been released. Of these, 155 have already been sent jailed
again.

The Sun is calling on all political parties to back our Sunifesto, which demands
stricter sentences for major crimes and cash fines for nonviolent offences.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outrage ... 2011 riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PREM STAR: I TRIED TO STOP KIDS RIOTING;
The day Defoe stood up to gangs

BYLINE: TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 237 words


ENGLAND football star Jermain Defoe confronted thugs during the summer riots and
begged them to stop.

The Tottenham striker, 29, came face to face with gangs of youths preparing to
cause havoc in London.

And he said he stopped them from getting into trouble.

"They said: 'We're going to riot,' so I said: 'Do you even know what you're
rioting about?' "They said: 'What else are we supposed to do? We haven't got any
jobs and that.' I told them it was crazy. When I was a kid, I wasn't doing
things like this and I was shocked when I saw what was going on."

He said the group heading off to riot in Tottenham included girls.

"After the riots it made me even more conscious of the need to be a role model
for young people," he said.

"I could have been like that. I could have gone down the wrong path and just
followed my mates.

"But I always say you have got to be an individual. You shouldn't just follow
your mates all the time." Defoe was speaking at the launch of the Tottenham
Hotspur Foundation, which aims to put something back into the community.

He attended the event only hours after hearing his cousin had been murdered.
Allan Edgar, 78, was knifed in the neck by burglars on Caribbean isle St Lucia.
The footballer's brother Jade was killed by a thug in London in 2009.

?In the Daily Star phone poll yesterday 96% of readers said rioters should be
shot if they cause carnage on British streets.

tom.hutchison@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON RAMPAGE: Last summer's Tottenham riots
DEFIANT: Striker Defoe spoke to teenagers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IPR

                       April 16, 2010 Friday 8:22 PM  EST

Tender Notice: Central Reserve Police Force Seeks Special Riot Drill Equipment
(India)

LENGTH: 121  words

DATELINE: GURGAON, Haryana


GURGAON, Haryana, April 16 -- Central Reserve Police Force said it had a
requirement for special riot drill equipments like riot control helmets and
police body protectors.

According to the description: "Tenders are invited for supply of special riot
drill equipments: 1) Riot Control Helmet Mk.II (Qty - 700 Nos.) 2) Police Body
Protector Mk.II (Qty - 480 Nos.)."

Bidding type is domestic competitive bidding.

The tender notice no. is L.VII.I/10-11-Q-GGN(RIOT).

The last date for the submission of tender is May 6 till 12 noon.

The opening date of tender technical bid is May 6 at 4 p.m. For more information
about India Press Release please contact: Sarabjit Jagirdar, India Press
Release, Email:- htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2010 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Brownsville Herald (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 22, 2009 Thursday

BRIEF: 2 dead, 36 injured in Matamoros prison riot

BYLINE: The Brownsville Herald, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


Jan. 22--MATAMOROS -- At least two people are dead and dozens are injured during
a riot at a Matamoros prison.

A Mexico City news agency says the riot started this morning at Centro de
Readaptacion socieal (Cereso) de Matamoros, located in the community of Santa
Adelaida on the out-skirts of Matamoros.

The riot began at 9 a.m. when a fight broke out between a group of inmates armed
with guns. An hour later, authorities had not been able to enter the prison. At
the time prison director Pedro Benavides said no one had been killed in the
shooting.

The Brownsville Herald has learned two inmates are dead and 36 others were hurt.
Their injuries are unknown.

Relatives of the inmates have been outside the prison, waiting to learn about
the fate of their loved ones.

We will have more details as they develop on www.brownsvilleherald.com.

(El Universal contributed to this report.)

To see more of The Brownsville Herald, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.brownsvilleherald.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Brownsville Herald,
Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090122-BV-BRF-2-dead-36-injured-in-Matamoros-prison-riot-0122

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BV


                     Copyright 2009 The Brownsville Herald

                              433 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Racial riots in spotlight;
FOCUS - SYDNEY ON EDGE - OVERSEAS VIEW

BYLINE: PETER STRACHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Features; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 229 words


MOB violence in Sydney continues to receive media coverage around the world.

While Prime Minister John Howard says the riots of Sunday and Monday will have
no long-term impact on our reputation overseas, the violence has put Australia's
race relations in the global spotlight.

"Sydney has suffered a second night of violence and destruction in what appeared
to be a backlash against the previous night's rampage by white racists,"
al-Jazeera's online news service read this morning under the heading "Race
violence rages on".

The Bangkok Post wrote that "Australia's reputation for racial harmony lay
shattered Tuesday after a second night of violence," while The Standard in Hong
Kong also reported Monday night's unrest.

Several British papers have continued to cover the violence. The Daily Telegraph
reported that thugs, armed with guns and crowbars, threatened to do battle with
rival gangs. The story ran under the heading "Mobs riot again as Sydney race
tensions explode". The Sun headed its story "Race riots rock Sydney", while the
Daily Mirror reported "Race riots in Sydney suburbs".

The Cronulla riots have been reported in the United States by papers including
The New York Times and USA Today, the latter heading its latest story "Racial
violence continues in Australia".

"Race riots break out on Aussie beach", The Toronto Star reported on its
website. -- PETER STRACHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

1984 riot victims yet to get flats in Mohali

BYLINE: Diljot Singh

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 436 words


MOHALI: The 1984 anti-Sikh riots had displaced thousands of families, many of
whom are now settled in Mohali. Thirty years on, several victims are still
struggling to get a home.

The Punjab and Haryana high court on February 21 had directed the Mohali
authorities, including Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and the
deputy commissioner, to decide on the allotment of houses and booths to the
victims in three months. A week ago, Manjeet Singh, a riot victim, along with
others, had approached GMADA chief administrator AK Sinha, and filed a
representation on giving them possession of the flats at the earliest. Manjeet,
along with other victims, had filed a petition in the high court in 2011,
seeking allotment of the flats, plots and booths, as per the policy framed on
September 29, 2011, for the riot victims.

In 2011, the court had asked the affected families to approach the authorities
concerned for flats, plots and booths. The riot victims filed more than 42
petitions in the court, alleging that the authorities were negligent, and that
the state was taking no action. Jaswinder Singh, president of the riot victims'
association, said: "Of the over 2,000 families living in Mohali district who
were displaced by the riots, less than 600 have got flats. We have approached
almost every office in the district but in vain."

"In 2006, GMADA had issued a letter to the DC, saying 919
houses/flats/commercial sites had been allotted to the riot victims. But for
every allotment, there are discrepancies in documents, and the allotted sites
are still not fully in their possession," added Jaswinder. In March 2013, the
high court, on a petition filed by riot victim Gurmeet Singh, had asked Punjab
to give flats to those affected.

LEGAL POSITION

The sites to be allotted in Mohali were flats/plots/booths/commercial sites in
sectors 68, 70, 66, phase1, X, and Sector 57, among others.

GMADA estate officer Mahesh Kumar Bansal said: "There are some houses which are
occupied by riot victims which belong to someone else. We cannot allot the
property of someone else to the illegal occupants. About 20 riot victims had
approached us, and we are scrutinizing their documents, and then the files will
be sent to the DC TPS Sidhu who will make the final decision."

Bansal too had stated that the authorities had allotted the various sites to the
riot victims as per the guidelines of the law. "If someone illegally occupies a
locked flat or the house of someone else who had gone for vacation or got
transferred, then when the original occupier comes back, he will sue us."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Immigration failed to heed signs leading up to riots

BYLINE: Kirsty Needham IMMIGRATION CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words


THE Immigration Department was explicitly warned by a consultants' report that a
serious incident would occur on Christmas Island because of severe overcrowding
five months before riots broke out, an independent inquiry has found. The
inquiry, by former public servants Allan Hawke and Helen Williams, into the
Christmas Island and Villawood riots found the failure of the department to
brief the Immigration Minister, Chris Bowen, on the warning until March 2011 was
"highly regrettable". Their report, released yesterday, described conditions on
Christmas Island before the riots as "severely compromised" - with failing
sewerage systems, supply of water "precarious", and access to toilets and
education under stress. Detainee numbers had leapt to more than 6000, with 2530
on the island.

Knowledge Consulting warned in October 2010 that safety was compromised,
accommodation was not fit for purpose, staff shortages had affected intelligence
gathering, and detainees had no meaningful activities to distract them. A freeze
on processing Sri Lankan and Afghan asylum claims the previous year had caused a
significant backlog. The Hawke and Williams inquiry found that adding to this
mix was an influx of middle-class Iranian asylum seekers who had higher
expectations of service and lower tolerance for delays in decision making or
"failure to achieve a positive result". Riots on Christmas Island sparked on
March 11 caused $2.5 million in damage, while riots at Villawood a month later
cost $6 million. Serco, the private company that runs the detention network, was
warned of the planned mass escape and riot on Christmas Island four days in
advance, but a teleconference with the Immigration Department in Canberra
dismissed an informant's warning and there was no request for extra police. The
report blamed both riots in part on the detention network's inability to manage
a core group of asylum seekers who had been rejected as refugees. It said 80 of
the 100 detainees identified as taking part in the Christmas Island riot had
received an initial rejection of their refugee claim and were waiting for a
review. Thirteen of the 19 charged over the riots had been rejected as refugees
at the first interview. All nine charged over the Villawood riot had received a
negative initial decision. Mr Hawke and Ms Williams also called for a revision
of terms of the contract with Serco to improve security and better co-ordination
with police forces. Mr Bowen said: "This is not necessarily about the time taken
for processing, not about the conditions in detention but about the number of
people in immigration detention who had been rejected." The opposition spokesman
on immigration, Scott Morrison, said the government's shift to bridging visas
meant the rioters had received what they wanted. Mr Bowen said there has been a
35 per cent reduction in the detainee population since that time, and a 60 per
cent cut on Christmas Island. However, boat arrivals this month have returned to
the levels that led to the 2010 overcrowding, following the High Court ban on
the Malaysia refugee swap.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

Dalai Lama speaks out over UK riots

BYLINE: Andrew Brownguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 348 words

ABSTRACT

Tibetan spiritual leader, in London to collect £1.1m Templeton prize, says young
people wrong to believe life would be easy

FULL TEXT

The Dalai Lama has said that last summer's riots were the fault of a generation
brought up to believe life would be easy.

Speaking in the crypt of St Paul's Cathedral on Monday, where he was presented
with the £1.1m Templeton prize for spiritual progress, he said: "I have the idea
of Englishmen as mature, sensible, law-abiding people, If [riots] happen in
England, it is a shock. I sent a letter to the prime minister in which I
expressed sadness and urged to him to think about the causes of the riots."

He said that the root cause was young people "being brought up to believe that
life was just easy. Life is not easy. If you take for granted that life will be
easy, then anger develops, frustration, and riots."

Asked about the Occupy protest outside St Paul's, he said: "If their reasons and
motivations are sincere, then I will join with them." He thought the protests
were justified as a way of bringing to light grievances which would otherwise
have been ignored.

But he refused to talk about Tibetan politics on the grounds that he stepped
down last year as the political leader of the Tibetan people in exile. Invited
to discuss the wave of suicides across the country in the last year, when monks
have set themselves on fire in protest against the Chinese occupation, he said
he would say "zero".

The Tibetan spiritual leader was in London to collect the Templeton prize which
"honours a living person who has made an exceptional contribution to affirming
life's spiritual dimension", according to its website. The award makes him the
only person apart from Mother Teresa to have won both the Templeton prize and a
Nobel Peace prize - which is worth rather less in monetary terms.

He will give the money to charity, he said. The bulk will go to the Save the
Children fund in India, with smaller bequests to a science and religion group
which is studying the effects of Buddhist practice and to a project to train
Buddhist monks as scientists.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

The Reading the Riots project: our methodology explained

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 884 words

ABSTRACT

How we and our academic partners went about collecting and analysing 1.3m words
of rioters' first-person accounts

FULL TEXT

Reading the Riots is the only research study into the causes and consequences of
the summer riots involving interviews with large numbers of people who actually
took part in the disorder. A project run jointly by the Guardian and the London
School of Economics (LSE), the aim was to produce evidence-based social research
that would help explain why the rioting spread across England.

The research was inspired by a study of the Detroit riots in 1967 involving a
collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and the University of
Michigan's Institute for Social Research. The Detroit project, which challenged
some of the assumptions about the cause of the unrest in the city, used
quantitative research techniques - multiple-choice questionnaires - to compare
populations that rioted with others that did not.

However, it was decided that a qualitative framework - involving in-depth,
free-flowing interviews with rioters - would be the most appropriate method of
studying the summer disturbances in England.

The first phase of Reading the Riots was completed in three months using
confidential interviews with hundreds of people directly involved in the riots
in six cities. It also involved a separate analysis, by academics at Manchester
University, of a database of more than 2.5m riot-related tweets.

The second phase - to be completed early next year - will involve interviews
with police, court officials and judges and a series of community-based debates
about the riots.

In September we advertised on the Guardian website for researchers with skills
in interviewing and good links with riot-affected communities. More than 450
people from across the country applied. A team of 30 was selected and trained
with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society
Foundations. They spent October interviewing people who had been involved in the
riots in six cities: London, Liverpool, Birmingham, Nottingham, Salford and
Manchester.

Each researcher was given a topic guide covering the major themes of their
interviews with rioters should cover. They were asked to find out how people
first heard about the riots, how they became involved, how they communicated,
what they did, why they thought the riots stopped and how they felt about their
actions now.

The questions were deliberately neutral and researchers were discouraged from
asking leading questions. Each interview tended to last at least 45 minutes and
allowed for an extended discussion between interviewer and respondent, providing
nuanced first-person accounts of people's experiences and perspectives.

Basic demographic data was collected about the interviewees, including where
they lived, their age and ethnicity, educational qualifications, previous
criminal history and whether they worked. They were also asked a series of
survey-style questions, on topics ranging from their thoughts on the riots to
their attitudes towards police - each of which was taken from a larger social
survey for the purposes of comparison.

We wrote to 1,000 people convicted during the riots and offered them the
opportunity to take part in the study. Researchers also visited their homes. But
primarily, local contacts were used to find people who were involved in the
riots but had not been arrested. After being promised anonymity, a surprising
number agreed to take part in the study, often because they wanted their story
to be heard.

Interviews were in various locations, such as people's own homes, youth clubs,
cafes and fast-food restaurants. The Ministry of Justice gave Reading the Riots
access to prisons, enabling interviews with about 13 people convicted for their
involvement in the riots. However, a large majority of the 270 people
interviewed for the project had not been arrested.

All interviews were recorded, transcribed and stored in a database. In total,
Reading the Riots collated more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters. Rigour in the analytical phase - mostly undertaken in November - was
vital.

Once all the data was collected, a team of five research analysts recruited by
the LSE began the complex task of analysing the lengthy transcripts in search of
themes. The process began with an analyst reading a transcript to get an
overview of its contents. After several readings, each transcript was then coded
so that particular themes could be identified and evidenced.

A list of coding labels was produced - essentially themes and sub-themes
appearing in the interviews - and these were reviewed by the research team on a
regular basis. The links and relationships between dozens of themes and
sub-themes such as government injustice, riot motivation, police, community, and
the role of social media, were constantly updated, providing an ever more
detailed picture of why the riots happened.

The relationships between the themes were recorded and displayed on a thematic
map document, allowing the team to see the larger, overall picture as a cohesive
set of findings began to emerge.

The analysis that has gone into producing these Reading the Riots findings is a
first attempt; transcripts will be subject to more advanced analysis in the
weeks and months to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday

'No further relief for Rakhial riot victims'

BYLINE: Nikunj Soni

LENGTH: 264  words


The state government on Monday informed the Gujarat high court that 56 riot
victims of Rakhial were not entitled to riot compensation as they had already
received relief under the industrial rehabilitation scheme. A bench of justices
Akil Kureshi and CL Soni was hearing a petition filed by advocate Utpala Bora, a
member of the NGO, Jan Sangharsh Manch (JSM). The petitioner had asked that
contempt of court proceedings be initiated against the state government as it
had not decided the issue of compensation for the riot victims of Sundaramnagar
in Rakhial. During the communal violence of 2002, 56 shops in the area were
ransacked and set ablaze by the rioters. The petitioners had sought compensation
for the riot victims but the government had refused on the ground that they are
not included in the list of riot victims eligible for relief under the
compensation scheme. Government pleader PK Jani said the state government had
told the court that the riot victims of Rakhial are not entitled to compensation
as they had already taken the benefit of the Industrial Rehabilitation Scheme
launched by the state for riot victims. "The applicants had taken benefits of
the scheme. According to the police, they are therefore not entitled to further
compensation which is meant for common riot victims," Jani said. Bora, however,
said the petitioners are entitled to further compensation under the central
government&apos;s scheme. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on
April 10 after instructing the state government to furnish details of the
Central government scheme.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday

'Riots will happen again if urgent action is not taken'

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 392 words


'The riots, arson and looting that tore through Tottenham and spilled over into
Wood Green could happen again, an independent panel has warned - unless urgent
action is taken.



The response of police to the initial unrest in Tottenham led to outbreaks of
violence elsewhere in the capital, triggering rioting across the nation. But it
was not the only cause.

That is the interim conclusion of the independent Riots Communities and Victims
Panel, which analysed evidence from thousands of people affected by what
happened, including rioters, victims and police, and will deliver a final
verdict to the Prime Minister in March.

It found many individual causes and motivations for the disorder between August
6 and 10, which left homes and businesses in Tottenham gutted by fire or
ransacked by looters.

Darra Singh, panel chairman, said it was "a sad fact that in some respects, the
underlying challenges are strikingly similar" to those around the Brixton riot
and others 30 years ago in 1981.

He added: "While deprivation is not an excuse for criminal behaviour, we must
seek to tackle the underlying causes of the riots, or they will happen again.

"Our findings have led us to set out recommendations for immediate action by
individuals, government, public services and business. The threat of future
riots and the response to them is not somebody else's problem."

The report called for changes to the Riot Damages Act and for insurers to
provide prompt payouts.

A more robust response by police in Tottenham and across London could also have
prevented the spread of rioting elsewhere in the country, the report said.

The Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) responded that while the scale of disorder
"was unprecedented", it has since conducted "a thorough review of our emergency
plans, including implementing changes for faster deployment of larger numbers of
officers".

Its statement added: "It is understandable that some people feel police
abandoned them. We have already accepted that we did not have enough officers
available quickly enough to prevent the disorder spreading in London, however
the MPS did everything it could with the resources available to prioritise
protecting life."

It said it acted on intelligence "wherever possible" and emphasised: "There was
no conscious decision to protect commercial property over individuals or
residential areas."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

A POLITICAL PLOT? Cong Sees Pattern in Riots, Seeks Explanation from PMO, MHA,
L-G

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 167 words


Congress sees a political plot and bid to polarise communities before polls in
the Trilokpuri riots and demanded an inquiry by an independent institution.
Pointing out that Delhi Police was controlled by the central government, apart
from the state being under President's rule,

Congress sought an explanation from the PMO, the home ministry and L-G on the
reasons behind the riots.

"We feel the riots in Trilokpuri is part of a political pattern and conspiracy
to instigate communal tension and polarisation ahead of elections from states to
states. It happened in UP , Bihar and some more states.Now the same is taking
place in Delhi which has been riot-free for more than 25 years. Who is
instigating communal tension and riots at Trilokpuri? We here the name of a BJP
MLA. We hear the name of a VHP activist here and there," party spokesman
Abhishek Singhvi said.

"Since Delhi is under President's rule...we demand an explanation...There must
be an investigation by an independent institution," he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday

Riot Fest 2014 announces daily schedule

BYLINE: Ernest Wilkins, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words


July 24--Here's what we know so far about Riot Fest 2014:

The Humboldt Park-based fest will take place Sept. 12-14 and is absolutely
stacked. Over 100 acts will be performing and now fans will have an idea as to
what day they can expect to see their favorite bands. Today, Riot Fest announced
the daily lineup and you can check it out below. Personally, Sunday seems like
the best lineup to really bring the essence of Riot Fest to newcomers.

Three-day passes for the festival are on sale for $189.98, although the festival
is operating a layaway program for $64.59. Two-day and single day passes are
still available. All tickets be purchased here.

Skip to Friday -- Saturday -- Sunday

Friday

--Jane's Addiction

--Rise Against

--Slayer

--The Offspring

--Pussy Riot (Nadya Tolokonnikova & Masha Alekhina)

--NOFX

--Gogol Bordello

--Of Mice & Men

--Mastodon

--The Murder City Devils

--Failure

--Circa Survive

--Clutch

--GWAR

--Stiff Little Fingers

--Black Joe Lewis & The Honeybears

--We Came as Romans

--Senses Fail All

--Title Fight

--Emarosa

--Pity Sex

--From Indian Lakes

--The Hotelier

--Radkey

--Pianos Become The Teeth

--Red City Radio

--Baby Baby

--Wounds

--Plague Vendor

--Somos

--Ughh, My Parents Are Here

Saturday:

--The National

--The Flaming Lips

--Wu-Tang Clan

--Samhain

--Descendents

--Metric

--Taking Back Sunday

--Die Antwoord

--City and Colour

--Paul Weller

--The Used

--The Afghan Whigs

--C*ck Sparrer

--Dashboard Confessional

--Saosin w/ Anthony Green

--Say Anything

--Mighty Mighty Bosstones

--Tokyo Police Club

--The Dandy Warhols

--The Get Up Kids

--Me First and the Gimme Gimmes

--Streetlight Manifesto

--Buzzcocks

--Face To Face

--Marky Ramone w/ Guests

--Wavves

--The Orwells

--RX Bandits

--Samiam

--7 Seconds

--Anti-Flag

--Frnkiero And The Cellabration

--Citizen

--The World Is A Beautiful Place...

--Lemuria

--The Pizza Underground

--Nostalghia

--Skaters

--The Unlikely Candidates

--Jessica Hernandez & The Deltas

--The Bots

--Broncho

--The American Scene

--Restorations

--The Picturebooks

--Rose's Pawn Shop

--The Crombies

--Ex Friends

Sunday:

--The Cure

--Weezer

--Social Distortion

--Primus

--Tegan and Sara

--Cheap Trick

--Patti Smith

--Bring Me The Horizon

--Dropkick Murphys

--Naked Raygun

--Superchunk

--Billy Bragg

--The Hold Steady

--Blue Meanies

--Lucero

--New Found Glory

--Mudhoney

--Hot Snakes

--Thurston Moore

--Motion City Soundtrack

--Andrew W.K.

--Bouncing Souls

--Kurt Vile & The Violators

--Mineral

--La Dispute

--Only Crime

--The Menzingers

--The Front Bottoms

--Silverstein

--The Whigs

--In The Valley Below

--Modern Baseball

--I Am the Avalanche

--Laura Stevenson

--Cerebral Ballzy

--PUP

--Dads

--Show You Suck

--Lucki Eck$

--My Gold Mask

--Tiny Moving Parts

--Team Spirit

--Survay Says!

--Chumped

--Archie Powell & The Exports

--Ur Lineup Sux, Bro

___ (c)2014 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140724-1RC-Riot-Fest-2014-announces-daily-schedule-0724-20140724

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2014

                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday

' Maulana' Mulayam soothes riot victims

BYLINE: By Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow

LENGTH: 397  words


UNDER ATTACK from various quarters for allegedly ignoring the plight of
riotaffected people in Muzaffarnagar, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and
Samajwadi Party ( SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav on Tuesday met a delegation of
Muslim leaders and victims, and heard their grievances.

The delegation, comprising Jamiat Ulama- i- Hind president Maulana Arshad Madani
and several other Muslim clerics and riot victims, called on the two leaders and
demanded compensation for the families of those who have been missing in the
aftermath of the communal violence of August- September 2013.

" We have demanded the state government to look into the case of riot victims
sympathetically, treat those missing as dead and give compensation to their
families," said SP leader Ashu Malik, who led the delegation.

Maulana Arshad Madni said both Mulayam and Akhilesh assured them that their
demands will be looked into. " We appreciate the work done by the state
government for Muzaffarnagar riot victims.... We, however, have some demands
like compensation and government job for the kin of missing people, as announced
in case of those who died," said Madni, who believes that Muzaffarnagar riots
occurred due to failure of the local administration.

Another section of Muslim clerics, however, slammed the SP leaders' "
hobnobbing" with some leaders of the community as a " political gimmick".
Maulana Amir Rashid Madani, a leader of Ulema Council, compared the Akhilesh
government with the Narendra Modi government in Gujarat.

" Those organisations which want to pardon Modi for 2002 riots in Gujarat are
also close to Akhilesh. We believe that Muzaffarnagar riots were not much
different from Gujarat riots. A few maulanas may pardon Mulayam and Akhilesh but
the Muslims of the state have seen the real face of the SP government.

We will give our reply at the polling booth," he said. " Government- sponsored
riots rendered thousands of Muslims homeless but these people have no time to
solve their problems." Noted Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad said, " Every
organisation and political party is trying to cheat the riot victims. None of
them is honestly interested in improving the life of refugees. Their children
are still dying in refugee camps. But the government is driving them away and
forcing them to spend nights under the open sky. We should have refrained from
doing this kind of politics."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

Riots in the time of YouTube;
dna looks at the allegation that people in Muzaffarnagar were driven to savagery
with the use of social media

BYLINE: Harini Calamur

LENGTH: 373  words


In Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, two young men knifed another man who was
stalking a woman. The stalker's family lynched the two. And before you could say
"what happened" there was a full blown communal riot that claimed 38 lives.

The army has got called out to restore order. It is alleged by political parties
of all hues and shades that the riots were caused not by people intent on
killing each other, but by a video on youtube that showed, in graphic detail,
the lynching of the two young men. Except that the video was not of this
particular incident in Muzaffarnagar, but of a similar incident in Pakistan a
few years ago. This is not the first time that doctored pictures and doctored
YouTube videos have been used to inflame passions.

Fake videos and photoshopped images of the violence in Burma towards Rohingya
Muslims caused a backlash across various parts of the world, including India.

Similar tactics were used during the Assam riots last year. As always, the call
is to get politicians not to shoot off their mouths before they see evidence,
but to curtail social media because, the logic goes, that 90% of India who have
no access to social media will get outraged by seeing inflammatory, disparaging
and obscene picture and video content on computers and smart phones they don't
possess, and spontaneously burst into riots.

If you think that Indian politicians are the only ones subscribing to this
logic, you would be wrong. The Turkish PM laid his troubles at the door of
social media, so has the Brazilian government. Even the British Police blamed
the power of social media in fanning the London Riots.

But, to blame the tool (social media) for riots is to mistake the wood for the
trees. It gives administrators a convenient way out for their reading and
mishandling of the situation. There was no youtube or social media during the
Partition, or during the 1984 riots. The internet was at a nascent stage during
the 1992 riots, and social media, as we know it, at a fledgling stage during the
2002 riots.

Then as now, it is people who caused riots, people who make inflammatory
speeches and people who kill other people. Putting those who cause and
participate in riots in prison is the solution, not curtailing social media.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

'RIOT LAWS WILL BE CHANGED TO HELP VICTIMS'

BYLINE: Craig Woodhouse

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 394 words


OLD laws which have left hundreds of riot victims waiting months for
compensation will be overhauled, the Government has vowed.

Home Office minister Lynne Featherstone said the Government was "committed" to
reviewing the Riot Damages Act, which dates from 1886, adding: "We need to
ensure that the legislation is fair and reflects a modern policing world." The
pledge came as it emerged there are still 707 outstanding claims in London, nine
months after the violence which hit the capital.

There have been criticisms that compensation claims are being dealt with by Home
Office officials rather than insurance professionals as well as concerns over
the scope of the Act, which is seen as slow and unwieldy.

Labour MP David Lammy, whose Tottenham constituency saw the start of the riots,
described the ongoing delays as "unacceptable" as he set out the human cost in a
Commons debate last night. He told MPs: "For many riot victims - I stress that
they are victims, not simply clients - an unprocessed claim form means a loss of
income, sleepless nights and the brutal reality of losing a business or shutting
up shop.

"I have had constituents who have ended up having heart attacks as a result of
their business going under with no compensation. That is how serious this is for
small businesses, which are finding things hard because of the double-dip
recession."

Prime Minister David Cameron promised this year to "chase up" outstanding claims
because of problems under the "out of date" legislation. Mayor Boris Johnson has
previously written to Home Secretary Theresa May to express concerns that claims
are not being processed quickly enough.

Mr Lammy told the Commons that as of May 9, Scotland Yard had received 3,427
claims, with 912 settled and just over £6 million paid out to victims, while 707
were ongoing. The rest had presumably been rejected.

Ms Featherstone claimed 571 of the outstanding claims were from insurance
companies for money that had already been paid out, and that of the remaining
136 only three were original while the rest were recent.

And amid fears that donations to help victims will be deducted from their
compensation payouts, Ms Featherstone said the Government was considering a
public consultation on an overhaul. She said: "The Government want to settle all
claims and ensure that victims are compensated as soon as humanly possible."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            February 24, 2012 Friday
                                Final_C Edition

More Stanley Cup rioters are charged

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 149  words


Five more people are charged with criminal offences stemming from last summer's
Stanley Cup riot.

Prosecutors assigned to the riot cases approved the charges Thursday after
evidence was given to them by the Vancouver Police Department's Integrated Riot
Investigation Team (IRIT).

Those charged are: Andrew Cuthbert, 20, of Maple Ridge, charged with
participating in a riot, arson and two counts of mischief. Fernando Rafael
Elevado Bernabe, 20, of Burnaby, participating in a riot and two counts of
mischief.

Christian Dougherty, 19, of Prince George, Reneil Anand Kumar, 26, of Richmond,
and Ariel Elizabeth Harrison, 19, of Surrey, are charged with participating in a
riot and mischief.

The IRIT has recommended 350 criminal charges against 125 suspected rioters.

Four people suspected of the swarming assault on Good Samaritan Robert Mackay
have been recently identified.

? jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

BRIEF: Eight participants of Zhanaozen riots arrested

BYLINE: K. Konyrova, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


Dec. 20--ASTANA, Kazakhstan -- On suspicion of committing a crime (organization
of and participation in riots, as well as looting) during the riots in Zhanaozen
10 people were detained. Eight of them were arrested by court order, spokesman
for Kazakh Prosecutor General's Office Nurdaulet Suindikov said at a press
briefing in Astana, Kazakhstan, on Tuesday.

"Since Dec.16 up to date, 38 persons were made criminally responsible for
various administrative offenses in Zhanaozen. Ten people were detained on
suspicion of crimes, eight of them were arrested. The detainees included fired
oil workers and their relatives," Suindikov said.

On Friday, Dec.16 mass riots took place in the Kazakh oil town of Zhanaozen in
the Mangistau region which killed 14 and injured about 90 people. Buildings,
cars were set on fire and prerty of physical and legal entities were damaged.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree to impose a state of emergency in
the area from Saturday. According to the Prosecutor General's Office, situation
in the Zhanaozen city is gradually stabilizing.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2011 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111220-1AZ-BRF-Eight-participants-of-Zhanaozen-riots
-arrested-1220-20111220

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011

                              448 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Anger grows against city hall, polls find;
Mayor Gregor Robertson says he doesn't expect riot to be factor in municipal
election, but opponent Suzanne Anton disagrees

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


With a municipal election six weeks away and a new poll suggesting more and more
Vancouverites are blaming city hall for the Stanley Cup riot, Mayor Gregor
Robertson says he's convinced voters will focus on the city's long-term health
instead of the events of June 15.

NRG Research Group and Peak Communicators released a survey Wednesday that found
the level of riot-related blame directed at the city increased 16 per cent
between June and September. The companies surveyed 400 Vancouver residents over
the phone between Sept. 22 and Sept. 25, following up on a similar poll they
conducted one week after the riot.

B.C.'s civic elections will be held Nov. 19, but Mr. Robertson doesn't expect
the riot to determine who will win the Vancouver mayoralty.

"I'm convinced that this election's going to be more about affordable housing,
about a good transportation network here in Vancouver and around the region,
that people really do care about those issues in this city," he told reporters.
"Events like the riot, they're important times, we need to work through them,
learn from them, but I'm very hopeful that people will see the bigger picture
here and the long-term health of the city as being fundamental."

Suzanne Anton, Mr. Robertson's mayoral opponent, had a different perspective.
She said everywhere she goes people want to talk about the riot that left
millions of dollars in damages.

"It will absolutely have an impact on the election of Nov. 19," Ms. Anton said.

The survey's respondents rated different organizations and groups on their level
of responsibility for the riot. Scores were measured on a scale of 0 to 10, with
zero meaning the group was not at all responsible, and 10 meaning the group was
totally responsible.

The city had an average score of 4.9 in June, but jumped to 5.7 in September.

"We would assume these changing numbers reflect the findings of the Vancouver
riot report and the ongoing news coverage that has taken place on the riots over
the summer months," said Tim Chan, NRG's associate vice-president.

In June, 24 per cent of respondents gave the city a score between 8 and 10. In
September, that number rose to 33 per cent.

The city wasn't the only organization to see its level of blame increase
substantially. The local police department's responsibility rating also rose by
16 per cent, to an average score of 5.1. The force declined to discuss the poll.

The highest level of blame was reserved for the rioters themselves. They
received an average score of 8.6.

When asked about the reliability of the poll, Mr. Chan stood by the findings.

"We do telephone polling and telephone polling is really the only way to get a
representative sample of residents," he said. "It's proven to be the best
methodology to do this. The margin of error is plus or minus 5 per cent, 19
times out of 20. It is a sufficient and representative sample that we have."

Mr. Chan said the companies could have surveyed more people to reduce the margin
of error, but felt 400 "was sufficient for this particular poll."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

SIT to probe anti-Sikh riots, says AAP Govt

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- Delhi Government today decided on a probe by a Special
Investigation Team into the 1984 anti- Sikh riots here, two days after Congress
vice-president Rahul Gandhi said some of the partymen were probably involved in
the violence but were punished.

The politically sensitive decision to form the SIT to investigate the riots
which left around 3000 Sikhs dead following the assassination of the then prime
minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 may create trouble in the
relationship between AAP and Congress which has been providing outside support
to Kejriwal dispensation.

But the move was welcomed by riot victims with one of their prominent lawyers
saying it gave them a "ray of hope".

"Government is going to form a SIT to probe the 1984 riots. The modalities of
the probe will be discussed at a cabinet meeting on Friday. Lt Governor Najeeb
Jung has in-principle agreed to the proposal to appoint the SIT," PWD Minister
Manish Sisodia told reporters.

Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal discussed the issue with
Jung.

To a query on effectiveness of SIT as the riots had taken place nearly 30 years
back, Sisodia said "honest efforts will definitely yield results".

Two days back, in an interview to a TV channel, Gandhi had admitted that "some
Congress men were probably involved in 1984 anti-Sikh riots and they have been
punished for it".

Gandhi had insisted that the Congress government in 1984 "was not aiding and
abetting the riots" but had tried to stop the violence.

Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar are facing allegations of
involvement in riots after Indira Gandhi was assassinated on October 31, 1984.

Claiming that effective investigation into the anti- Sikh riots was part of
AAP's agenda, Sisodia said the party had held a daylong fast at Jantar Mantar to
express solidarity with the victims.

Senior lawyer HS Phoolka, who joined AAP recently, said, "The decision of
government to form SIT has given a ray of hope to riot victims that justice
would be done to them."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

Pakistan: Indian court slam Modi's gov't for 2002 riots

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, Feb. 10 -- Narendra Modi's government has been criticised by the
Gujarat High Court for failing to check the communal riots that engulfed the
state in 2002 which killed hundreds Muslims in western Indian state of Gujarat.

A division bench said, "The state government and the police could not stop riots
. There was inaction on part of the police resulting some 1200 people were
killed in the riots, most of them were Muslims".

The judges were hearing a petition that asks the government to pay for the
damage that was incurred by different religious buildings

The judges said, "How can you not provide compensation for the reconstruction of
religious buildings that were damaged during the riots?"

The court's observations came a week after it rejected a petition seeking that
the Nanavati Commission, investigating 2002 Gujarat riots cases, be asked to
summon the Chief Minister for questioning.

Ruling on the petition filed by the Jan Sangharsh Manch (JSM), an NGO
representing riot victims, the court had held that it was up to the commission
whether it wished to summon a person or not.

The Nanavati Commission had earlier rejected a similar petition from the NGO to
summon Mr Modi. The NGO has said it will move the Supreme Court against the High
Court order Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 20, 2007

When it comes to a poltical debate Adams is a real riot

BYLINE: Frank Fitzgibbon

SECTION: FEATURES; Eire News; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 431 words


We don't like being taxed by RTE to watch television but the station earned
every cent of the licence fee when it agreed that Gerry Adams could represent
Sinn Fein in the first party leaders' debate last Wednesday.

Other political parties objected to Adams's presence on the grounds that (a)
he's not a party leader, (b) he isn't a candidate in the forthcoming election
and (c) he generates such consistently high ratings in opinion polls that he
threatened to overshadow Michael McDowell, Pat Rabbitte and Trevor Sargent on
the night. The first two points are valid but, boy, were their fears on the
third point misplaced.

When it comes to how this country operates, Adams was exposed as worse than
useless. Does he even read the papers?

On the plus side he managed to suppress the bullying, hectoring stance he
usually adopts when presented with interviewers who set their own agenda rather
than fawn in his presence.

Adams answered every question with a boring preamble about the importance of '
riots' -human riots, patient riots, education riots, worker riots and whatever
riots you're having yourself. And Adams, we discovered, knows nothing about the
republic other than that he wants "the 26 counties", as he calls this country,
bolted into a united Ireland.

Soundbite of the evening was McDowell's reference to Labour, Sinn Fein and the
Green party as "the left, the far left and the leftovers". Of course, when the
tanaiste described the Shinners as "far left" he was only referring to the
party's economics. In every other respect, Sinn Fein is Ireland's far right
party. Think about it. Military uniforms, berets, dark glasses, kangaroo courts,
baseball bats, punishment beatings, the 'neighbourhood watch'.

Then there's the criminality. As Adams empathised with communities ravaged by
drugs, McDowell was thoughtless enough to claim the Provos, Sinn Fein's
paramilitary wing, sold weapons know-how to Colombian terrorists for $25m
(E18.5m) -proceeds of cocaine smuggling.

On an evening when nothing went right for Adams, he became the mere straight man
setting up gags for the star act. The Sinn Fein president insisted his holiday
home in Donegal, which he claims to have acquired while earning the average
industrial wage, was "owned by the banks". McDowell wondered was it the Northern
Bank, reminding viewers of the Sinn Fein-sanctioned bank heist in December 2004
when more than £ 26m (E38m) was stolen from Northern Bank's Belfast
headquarters.

A great night's viewing.

Cost of funding RTE through the licence fee? E183m.

Cost of exposing Gerry Adams as an empty vessel? Priceless.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 31, 2001

A riot that never was;
Police choose their words with care and escape a big pay-out

BYLINE: Andrew Loudon

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 615 words


PETROL bombs, stone-throwing, looting and arson it had all the ingredients of a
riot.

But the mayhem in Burnley two months ago was merely 'a serious disturbance'
according to police and, for some victims, that means ruin.

Had Lancashire Constabulary declared it a riot, anyone whose property was
damaged would have been able to claim against the police authority. But instead
people who lost their homes and businesses have to rely on insurance payouts and
several were not insured.

The upshot is that one family whose home was set ablaze while they were inside
it are GBP 80,000 worse off while others do not know whether they will ever get
their businesses going again.

Had they been victims of the May riots in Oldham or the July riots in Bradford,
they would have been able to cite the Riot (Damages) Act of 1886.

That makes police authorities responsible for compensation where houses, shops,
buildings or their contents insured or not are damaged 'by any persons riotously
and tumultuously assembled together'.

A senior Lancashire police official spoke of the surprise that greeted other
forces' admissions that they had riots on their hands.

He said: 'I was in our operations room when the Bradford police chief went on
the TV news saying it was a riot. Our ops room erupted. We thought, "Good
heavens, he's used the R-word that'll cost him.''' In Burnley, on June 24,
hundreds went on the rampage, hurling petrol bombs and bricks, torching
overturned cars, looting shops and setting houses, businesses and the Duke of
York pub ablaze.

More trouble followed on the next two nights, all sparked by unconnected clashes
between whites and Asians against a background of unrest whipped up by the
British National Party. But in all Lancashire Constabulary's ensuing dealings
with the media they never once called it a riot.

Yesterday, when the Daily Mail asked the force about the Burnley riots the
response was: 'Disturbances, you mean ?' A spokesman added: 'Police can call it
a riot if it reaches a certain point but Burnley didn't get that far. At no time
did we call it a riot, so it would be the insurers who would pay out, not the
police. We've been very careful all along not to say "riot". We only ever called
it a serious disturbance.' Burnley's deputy mayor Rafique Malik said: 'There's
no two ways about it Burnley had a race riot, although the police only called it
serious disorder.

'The only difference between Burnley, Bradford and Oldham is that here Asian
community leaders went out among the rioters stopping them from injuring the
police.

'I believe people who were underinsured or not insured should be compensated.
The riots were not their fault. It is grossly unjust that they should be left in
this situation.' On June 24, newsagent Mohammed Sarfraz, his wife Rashda, sons
Babar, 16, and Hamaun, 15, and daughter Mariam, ten, were in their Burnley home
when a mob of up to 100 smashed windows, wrecked their shop across the road and
torched their car.

'I called the police but they didn't come,' said Mr Sarfraz.

'The rioters set my house alight while we were inside.

Neighbours rescued us but the house was gutted.

'I had no insurance because I couldn't afford it. Now, because the police won't
admit it was a riot, I have lost more than GBP 80,000 and the future is dark.'
The repair bill for Burnley is expected to run to several hundred thousand
pounds. In Bradford it is estimated at GBP 7million and in Oldham at GBP
1million to GBP 2million.

The Riot (Damages) Act was invoked after the riots in several cities in 1981,
landing taxpayers with enormous bills.

a.loudon@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday

One million tenge to be paid out to riot victims' families

BYLINE: K. Konyrova, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 236 words


Dec. 28--ASTANA, Kazakhstan -- About one million tenge ($6,745) will be paid to
the families of those killed in the riots in Zhanaozen, chairman of the board of
the Kazakh National Welfare Fund Samruk Kazyna and the head of the governmental
commission on Zhanaozen, Umirzak Shukeyev said at a video conference meeting
from Aktau.

"We will pay one million tenge to the families of the victims and to those
injured, 500,000 tenge," Mr Shukeyev said.

Mass riots took place in Zhanaozen, in the Mangistau region on December 16. The
riots were stopped at the Shetpe rail station on December 17. About 17 people
died and over a 100 people were injured during the riots.

As a result work is underway to employ the dismissed workers.

"As of now, about 104 proposals were received: 23 on Ozenmunaygaz, 81 on
Karazhanbasmunai," he said.

Mr Shukeyev said the number of commercial organisations making appeals to
restore their property in Zhanaozen is increasing.

"Today, about 12 out of 31 commercial facilities appealed to restore their lost
property," he said.

Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Masimov said that he ordered a transfer of 100
million tenge from each region of the country to help those injured in Zhanaozen
riots.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2011 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111228-1AZ-One-million-tenge-to-be-paid-out-to-riot
-victims-families-1228-20111228

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2011

                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

First charges laid after riot; Two men, one from Burnaby another from Calgary,
accused in stabbing incident

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 311  words


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcohol-fuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

"Everyone wants to understand how this riot happened, ask the tough questions
about it and move forward because we want to keep having these big gatherings
downtown," said Mayor Gregor Robertson.

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final. Burnaby resident Edgar
Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two men were
stabbed that night. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle Evans, 27, has been charged
with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Delta man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who is
accused of stealing a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak,
accused of lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far in part because of the
widespread circulation of riot images and because of collective post-riot guilt.

Chu urged others to follow suit. "If you come in voluntarily you

can do so discreetly and at a time that is convenient for you," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Postmedia News; While it didn't take long for  police to disperse
rioters, the first charges in the incident were  laid on Tuesday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Lessons from Singapore are relevant to Mong Kok riots

BYLINE: Ronald Ng

LENGTH: 761  words


There has been much penetrating feedback from Asia over Hong Kong's Chinese New
Year riot in Mong Kok, with most observers condemning the anti-government
rampage. Several friends of mine in Singapore who are National Service policemen
agreed that the policeman firing his pistol into the air to deter the crowd from
attacking his fallen comrade did the right thing. But some added that had the
incident happened in the US, they doubted whether police there would have had
the same self-restraint and not shot at the crowd. It was also shameful that
bricks were thrown at our policemen, plus rubbish bins and tires being burnt.

That said, let us now ask: Why has the conduct of some Hong Kong youths
deteriorated to this deplorable extent? Further, is there any way the constant
confrontation between the young people and police of Hong Kong could be
ameliorated?

Perhaps a few lessons could be learnt from Singapore.

Two riots remain firmly etched in the minds of older Singaporeans - the Maria
Hertogh riots of 1950 and the Hock Lee bus riots of 1955. Lee Kuan Yew was not
yet prime minister but it was what he observed during these riots that
germinated in his mind a number of important guiding policies when his
government came into power. From the Maria Hertogh riot he realized the
importance of religious and racial harmony, and that the republic's people had
to be sensitive to the religions and ethnicities of fellow citizens. The Hock
Lee bus riots planted in his mind the importance of citizens owning their own
homes. He observed that when fresh rioting began, people immediately rushed down
from their apartments onto the streets and brought their bicycles up to their
flats in order to protect them. This taught Lee the important lesson that people
will do everything to protect their own property. If a person owned a home, he
would protect it. If he had a mortgage, he would try to stay employed so as not
to lose his home. From these simple observations bloomed the Housing and
Development Board, which was responsible for building affordable housing for the
people. Consequently around 80 percent of Singapore's families now own their own
homes.

The principle is very simple. If I don't own anything, what do I have to lose?

In parenthesis, might I suggest a project for social scientists? Of the students
involved in the Mong Kok riot, how many university students were involved and
what was the breakdown in their faculties? If my theory is correct, I would
expect very few medical students, students in law, architecture, accountancy and
engineering were involved. All have very clear professional paths to follow, and
are fairly certain they have reasonable chance of getting employment with living
wages. This is a testable hypothesis.

Now to the second point. Some years ago a boy in Singapore was jailed and
ordered to be given three strokes of the cane for an offense for which he was
found guilty. (We are not going to discuss the ethics of using the cane as a
form of punishment here.) However, while in prison, he was given six strokes
instead of three. His family sued the government for compensation of S$1 million
($737,400) per extra stroke, totaling three S$3million. Clearly, the Prison
Authority was in the wrong, and for the government not to pay up as demanded
would set a precedent and arguably create an uproar over a serious injustice.
The case went to mediation and a confidential settlement was reached. All that
is known of that case now is that the family is satisfied, and has been
compensated, but no one knows the exact details.

Returning to Hong Kong's "Occupy" protests of September 2014, videos showing
alleged police brutality were seen. This incident must be addressed properly. On
the one hand, police officers who have served the government and people
conscientiously for years are implicated; on the other hand, members of the
public seem to have been treated unfairly. Could this issue be resolved by
mediation rather than by a court trial? As a mediator myself, I have learnt that
in a trial there are winners and losers, and often, even the winner could be a
loser in another sense, whereas in mediation one can strive for a win-win
solution.

Singapore now has a scheme where mediators are called in to settle some of the
lesser complaints previously dealt with by magistrates. This avoids lengthy
trials and legal costs. Hong Kong has a well established mediation body. Perhaps
they could be invited to help?

(HK Edition 03/18/2016 page11)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1495/34/145828412626.jpg

00221917e13e185595ac10.jpg

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Lessons from Singapore are relevant to Mong Kok riots

BYLINE: Ronald Ng

LENGTH: 748  words


There has been much penetrating feedback from Asia over Hong Kong's Chinese New
Year riot in Mong Kok, with most observers condemning the anti-government
rampage. Several friends of mine in Singapore who are National Service policemen
agreed that the policeman firing his pistol into the air to deter the crowd from
attacking his fallen comrade did the right thing. But some added that had the
incident happened in the US, they doubted whether police there would have had
the same self-restraint and not shot at the crowd. It was also shameful that
bricks were thrown at our policemen, plus rubbish bins and tires being burnt.

That said, let us now ask: Why has the conduct of some Hong Kong youths
deteriorated to this deplorable extent? Further, is there any way the constant
confrontation between the young people and police of Hong Kong could be
ameliorated?

Perhaps a few lessons could be learnt from Singapore.

Two riots remain firmly etched in the minds of older Singaporeans - the Maria
Hertogh riots of 1950 and the Hock Lee bus riots of 1955. Lee Kuan Yew was not
yet prime minister but it was what he observed during these riots that
germinated in his mind a number of important guiding policies when his
government came into power. From the Maria Hertogh riot he realized the
importance of religious and racial harmony, and that the republic's people had
to be sensitive to the religions and ethnicities of fellow citizens. The Hock
Lee bus riots planted in his mind the importance of citizens owning their own
homes. He observed that when fresh rioting began, people immediately rushed down
from their apartments onto the streets and brought their bicycles up to their
flats in order to protect them. This taught Lee the important lesson that people
will do everything to protect their own property. If a person owned a home, he
would protect it. If he had a mortgage, he would try to stay employed so as not
to lose his home. From these simple observations bloomed the Housing and
Development Board, which was responsible for building affordable housing for the
people. Consequently around 80 percent of Singapore's families now own their own
homes.

The principle is very simple. If I don't own anything, what do I have to lose?

In parenthesis, might I suggest a project for social scientists? Of the students
involved in the Mong Kok riot, how many university students were involved and
what was the breakdown in their faculties? If my theory is correct, I would
expect very few medical students, students in law, architecture, accountancy and
engineering were involved. All have very clear professional paths to follow, and
are fairly certain they have reasonable chance of getting employment with living
wages. This is a testable hypothesis.

Now to the second point. Some years ago a boy in Singapore was jailed and
ordered to be given three strokes of the cane for an offense for which he was
found guilty. (We are not going to discuss the ethics of using the cane as a
form of punishment here.) However, while in prison, he was given six strokes
instead of three. His family sued the government for compensation of S$1 million
($737,400) per extra stroke, totaling three S$3million. Clearly, the Prison
Authority was in the wrong, and for the government not to pay up as demanded
would set a precedent and arguably create an uproar over a serious injustice.
The case went to mediation and a confidential settlement was reached. All that
is known of that case now is that the family is satisfied, and has been
compensated, but no one knows the exact details.

Returning to Hong Kong's "Occupy" protests of September 2014, videos showing
alleged police brutality were seen. This incident must be addressed properly. On
the one hand, police officers who have served the government and people
conscientiously for years are implicated; on the other hand, members of the
public seem to have been treated unfairly. Could this issue be resolved by
mediation rather than by a court trial? As a mediator myself, I have learnt that
in a trial there are winners and losers, and often, even the winner could be a
loser in another sense, whereas in mediation one can strive for a win-win
solution.

Singapore now has a scheme where mediators are called in to settle some of the
lesser complaints previously dealt with by magistrates. This avoids lengthy
trials and legal costs. Hong Kong has a well established mediation body. Perhaps
they could be invited to help?

(HK Edition 03/18/2016 page11)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Spike Island prison riot exhibition opens 30 years after 'mob rule just took
over'

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 570 words


These are the recollections of retired Detective Garda Jack Hartnett of the
Spike Island prison riot, which took place 30 years ago.

Cork County Council, which is turning the island into a tourism venue, has
opened up a permanent exhibition there to commemorate the riot, which left the
prison very badly damaged.

Retired Detective Garda Jack Hartnett with Co Cork Mayor John Paul O Shea at the
of-ficial opening of the Spike Island prison riot exhibition.

On the night of Saturday, August 31, 1985, Hartnett was station orderly in the
garda barracks in Cobh.

He recalls getting a phone call saying a riot had broken out. When he looked out
of the station window, he could see flames leaping from the prison.

Security in the prison wasn t up to much. There were no cells as such and
inmates were accommodated in the dormitories in A Block, which had been used for
Naval Service personnel only shortly before.

Spike Island

The old guard room was also used to house some of the inmates. There was on
average 100 prisoners held on Spike during the summer of 1985.

The riot erupted just before midnight and the few prison officers on duty were
quickly overpowered.

Some gardaí were dispatched from Cobh in a boat, but were met with overwhelming
opposition and were forced to lie low as Hartnett frantically phoned for
reinforcements.

It was bedlam,  he says.  The first guards who went out couldn t do anything.
The prisoners were all over the island and the situation was potentially very
serious.

An array of the weapons used during the Spike Island prison riot. Gardaí were
initially unable to reinforce the prison guards due to a lack of riot gear.

One crowd of reinforcements couldn t land on the pier as it was controlled by
prisoners armed with slash-hooks, knives etc. Our lads had no riot gear.

Riot gear was only available in Cork City, says Hartnett, and when it eventually
arrived gardaí were able to land on the island in force.

The rioting ended around 4am, but some diehard inmates climbed onto the roof of
Mitchel Hall and remained there until about 5pm on Sunday when they surrendered.

During the riot, A Block was destroyed by fire, as was the eastern end of B
Block.

The prisoners also hot-wired a JCB and did a lot of damage to the buildings with
it,  says Hartnett.

There had been no hint that a riot would take place because up to then there was
never a bad atmosphere. Despite the scale of the riot nobody was seriously hurt,
thank God.

Following the riot, the Department of Justice decided to put in secure cells in
the building.

The prison was eventually closed in 2005 and, a couple of years ago, the
Department of Justice handed the island over to Cork County Council.

The local authority has ambitions plans to turn it into a tourist mecca.

Tom O Neill, who manages the Spike Island project, said the riot exhibition
would be a permanent feature.

It contains photographs, many taken by the then Cork Examiner, film footage and
uniforms of the time which were worn by prison officers and gardaí,  he says.

It will form part of a wider exhibition which features other penal times on the
island.

It was used to house convicts who were sent to Australia in the 19th century and
Anti-Treaty prisoners who were detained during the Civil War.

Other exhibitions will include the island s early life as a monastery and the
part it played in coastal defence when occupied by the British military and
later by the Irish military.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

York College professor seeks oral histories of York race riots

BYLINE: Brandie Kessler, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words


Oct. 24--When Peter Levy stood in front of dozens of York County business
leaders Wednesday to talk about the 1969 race riots in the city, he confessed
that many in the audience probably knew more about the events than he does.

"I should probably put a tape recorder in front of the people in this room,"
Levy said to the crowd inside The Yorktowne Hotel.

Levy was an invited speaker at the Rotary Club of York's meeting.

Although Levy has taught in the department of history and political science at
York College for about 20 years, he explained that he only recently started
researching the riots in York.

Levy said that he is interested in collecting oral histories of people who lived
through the riots.

It wasn't until the 1990s that details about the riots in York started to
surface, Levy said. He referenced the work of York's daily newspapers, and
credited them for starting the discussion.

Until then, even in books about the history of York County, the race riots got
very little attention, Levy said.

And York wasn't alone in that respect, he said.

"York's amnesia about it was not much different from other cities," Levy said,
referring to other places where race riots occurred in the late 1960s.

Two people were killed in the 1969 summer riots: city police Officer Henry
Schaad, who was white, and Lillie Belle Allen of South Carolina, who was black.
Thirty

years later, the York County district attorney's office reopened the
investigations into the deaths, and charged people in each murder. Three men
were convicted or pleaded guilty in the Schaad case; nine were convicted or
pleaded guilty in the Allen case.

Although more information is now available about what happened, Levy said, he
wants to learn more from the people who lived through the riots, and why they
happened.

He is interested in stories like that of Jon Fisher.

Fisher, the executive director of the York County Food Bank, said he grew up in
the 500 block of South Pershing Avenue near West Maple Street. He lived there
with his parents and sister.

Fisher recalled being the only white boy his age in the mostly black
neighborhood. He was about 4 years old when the riots happened in York. Back
then, people didn't talk about what happened.

He knows now that the riots had an influence on his childhood.

"I had two groups of friends," Fisher said. "White and black. I never fit in
with either one of them."

Levy said many people don't enjoy exploring history's somber moments, especially
moments they lived through. But, he said, their stories are valuable.

Anyone interested in sharing their first-hand experience of the 1969 race riots
in York can contact Levy at plevy@ycp.edu

Contact Brandie Kessler at 771-2035.

___ (c)2013 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at
www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131024-YO-York-College-professor-seeks-oral-histories-of-York-race-
riots-1024-20131024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2013 York Daily Record

                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Scottish police sent to help tackle England riots

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 579 words

ABSTRACT

All eight Scottish forces lend personnel and equipment to police in northern
England and Midlands

FULL TEXT

Scottish police are sending at least 250 riot-trained officers and riot vans to
help English forces tackle the outbreak of rioting, which has lasted for four
nights.

The Association of Chief Police Officers Scotland (Acpos) said all eight
Scottish forces were lending personnel and equipment to police in northern
England and the Midlands, but refused to release details for operational
reasons.

Many English forces not directly involved in policing riots and disturbances in
their areas began lending support earlier this week.

The announcement of help from Scotland follows a day of deliberation by Scottish
forces. On Tuesday, there were rumours that 300 police officers from Strathclyde
were being sent south, but the force quickly denied these.

Neither Strathclyde - one of the UK's largest forces - nor Lothian and Borders
police would go into detail about the numbers involved, but it is understood all
eight forces have released riot vans and officers trained in public order
policing.

In a brief statement, Acpos said: "The officers, equipment and vehicles will
come from all eight Scottish forces.

"The situation is being constantly monitored between the Association of Chief
Police Officers Scotland and colleagues in England, and any further assistance
required will be given careful consideration."

An Acpos spokesman said it was long-standing practice not to discuss the number
of officers or types of equipment involved in "mutual aid" deployments. "We're
not at this stage getting into any numbers game," he added.

It is understood the officers involved are congregating in Glasgow this morning
for a briefing about their roles before being sent south.

Alex Salmond, speaking about the deployment on BBC Radio Scotland, said the
police had a duty to help. "Obviously we've got an obligation to help if we can,
and that's what's being done," the first minister said.

Salmond, backed by Scottish National party MSPs and party activists, complained
about the media and social media reporting of the "UK riots" when no Scottish,
Welsh or Northern Irish city has been involved.

On Wednesday, BBC News 24 amended its onscreen titles, headlining its coverage
as "England riots". Sky News is continuing to title its coverage "UK riots".

Salmond said Scottish society was different to England's, implying that riots
were much less likely in Scotland. Referring to the riots being UK-wide
increased the risks of copycat riots and risked damaging Scotland's reputation
as a tourism destination, he told BBC Radio Scotland.

"We know we have a different society in Scotland, and one of my frustrations
yesterday was to see this being described on BBC television and Sky as 'riots in
the UK,'" he added.

But the Scottish Liberal Democrat MP Willie Rennie accused Salmond of "seeking
narrow political advantage out of the misery of others".

He added: "Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder, and
instead of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's
efforts would be better spent addressing those deep-rooted issues here."

Two teenagers are to appear in court in Scotland on Wednesday accused of trying
to orchestrate riots using Facebook. A 16-year-old will appear in court in
Glasgow, while an 18-year-old is expected to appear before Dundee sheriff court.
Tayside police said it was pursuing other similar investigations.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Riot charges approved against teen

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 126  words


Charges have been laid against a 17-year-old who is alleged to have participated
in the Stanley Cup riots.

The youth, who faces one count of participating in a riot and three counts of
arson damaging property, is among the first round of 60 charges recommended to
Crown.

His name is being withheld because he was a young offender on June 15, when the
riot occurred.

The Integrated Riot Investigation Team has recommended 215 charges against 80
individuals. Charges have now been approved against 28 suspected rioters.

"For rioters, the slate doesn't get wiped clean because it's a new year," said
riot team head Insp. Les Yeo. "If anything, the public can expect more rioters'
pictures for identification, more arrests and more charges to Crown by early
2012."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

COMMENT

BYLINE: Mail Today

LENGTH: 678  words


SIT deserves praise for conviction in riot case

THE conviction of 31 accused persons by a special court in the Sardarpura riot
case has done more than ensure justice for the 33 victims of the violence in
Gujarat's Mehsana district, that followed the train burning incident in Godhra
in 2002. It will also provide succour to all families who lost their kin in the
riots.

The Sardarpura riot case was one of the nine major cases taken up by the Special
Investigation Team that was constituted by the Supreme Court in response to
Gujarat's failure to ensure justice for the victims.

The SIT deserves a pat on the back for securing the conviction of 31 out of the
73 accused in the case. The verdict should allay the apprehensions of groups and
families of the victims who have doubted the impartiality of the SIT in the
past. It also raises hope that the perpetrators of violence in the other riot
cases that the SIT has taken up will be similarly brought to justice.

The conviction underlines the difference that proper investigation and
prosecution can make in taking a riot case to its logical conclusion.

Though the Gujarat riots, which left more than a 1,000 people dead, saw
thousands of cases being lodged, our legal system has secured just a handful of
convictions so far.

It is certainly not a coincidence that the major cases in which justice has been
done have all seen the involvement of agencies from outside the state. For
instance in the Best Bakery and the Bilkis Bano cases, trial was shifted to
Mumbai at the orders of the Supreme Court. This illustrates the role that the
state machinery has played in enabling a majority of the rioters to go scot-
free.

Social audit better option

UNION Rural Development Minister Jairam Ramesh's proposal to put in place
special courts to tackle corruption related to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural
Employment Guarantee Act ( MGNREGA) might not be the best way of going about the
task.

The corruption of officials at various levels is the main reason why the scheme
isn't able to achieve the desired results, so Mr Ramesh needs to be commended
for seeking to plug these leakages.

But appointing special courts will only add to the burden of an already
understaffed judiciary.

Needless to say, the fast- tracking of MGNREGA cases will hamper progress in
other cases- which might be of equal public importance, if not more.

While the establishment of separate courts might make for good symbolism and
help showcase the government's sincerity, a more feasible option would have been
to take steps to improve the existing system.

The ordinance in Andhra Pradesh which provides for MGNREGA courts is only a part
of the state's success story in countering MGNREGA- related corruption. The
ordinance - which was passed in August this year - is the product of an
extremely effective social audit movement in the state.

Therefore, instead of placing an additional burden on the judiciary, the
government must take steps to empower social audit movements in various states.

Stampede kills again

THE stampede that killed 16 persons and injured 32 others in Haridwar was a
needless tragedy. The religious ceremony for which a huge crowd had gathered is
said to be the biggest event in the area after the Kumbh Mela. Yet, its
organisers claimed that they could manage the crowd on their own.

Strangely enough, the district administration seems to have gone along with
them, instead of applying their own mind to the situation.

Had they done so, they would have realised that while smaller religious
gatherings can be handled by volunteers, crowds that go into lakhs of persons
can only be managed by experienced professionals.

In April 2010, a similar stampede had led to the loss of seven lives. Crowd
management is something that must be done with great care, especially at
religious festivals. Massive religious gatherings are prone to stampedes and the
district administration must associate themselves with the management of the
event, no matter what the organisers claim because, in the event of something
untoward happening they will be blamed.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday

Riot jail boss is shifted to lovely job

BYLINE: Anna Majavu

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 284 words


THE head of the Kimberley prison - the scene of a massive riot two months ago -
has been transferred to a cushy position in government.


 The startling information was revealed yesterday by Correctional Services
Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula in a written reply to a parliamentary question.

 The air wing, dog unit, crime combating unit and technical response team had to
be called in to put an end to the riot in August this year.
 When Parliament summoned officials to explain the riot afterwards, MPs heard
that Kimberley Correctional Centre head Hendrik Johannes had not responded when
prisoners submitted a memorandum of complaints.
 This led them to riot.
 Johannes also allegedly failed to report other "illegal acts" happening in the
prison to the Correctional Services department.
 Yet Johannes has not been suspended, but instead transferred to another cushy
job earning the same pay.
 "Yes, the former head of Kimberley Correctional Centre was transferred as a
result of the investigation into the riot that took place in August 2010,"
Mapisa-Nqakula said yesterday.
 She said Johannes was now the deputy director of performance management in the
Correctional Services Northern Cape office, earning the same pay as before.
 "He is still receiving the same remuneration, as his matter is still under
internal investigations," she said.
 In August, 78 inmates at the prison started fires in a protest against being
incarcerated far away from their families.
 The prisoners said the new R800 million facility did not even have public
phones for them to call home.
 Doors, mattresses and other property caught fire. Six prison guards were
reportedly traumatised after being held hostage in smoke-filled rooms.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2010 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             April 7, 2009, Tuesday

40 AXED AT RIOT SCHOOL;
STAFF HALVED AT SECURE UNIT

BYLINE: Chris Musson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 179 words


A SECURE school where teenagers rioted for six hours is to axe half of its 80
staff.

Workers who survive the cull at St Mary's Kenmure will be even more vulnerable
to attack from disturbed youngsters, it was claimed yesterday.

The residential school near Glasgow was blasted for poor management last year
after Scotland's worst secure-unit riot.

Now, staff have been told a huge fall in demand for places means bosses need to
slash 40 of around 80 posts.

A letter from the school's lawyers to employees said its roll had dropped from
37 at the time of the riot last March, to 18 this month.

Many staff claim the riot and poor management has led to the drop in demand.
Riot police were called to the disturbance, which was triggered by a row over
football.

Staff locked themselves in a room as a 16-year-old boy - who was later locked up
for four years over the riot - led a gang of around 16 on a nine-hour rampage.

One insider said: "Councils have hardly been queuing up to place people here
since the riot."

There are now around 100 children in Scotland's seven secure care units.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SLAMMED: St Mark's Kenmure

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday
                               Edinburgh Edition

40 AXED AT RIOT SCHOOL;
Staff halved at secure unit

BYLINE: Chris Musson

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 182 words


A SECURE school where teenagers rioted for six hours is to axe half of its 80
staff.

Workers who survive the cull at St Mary's Kenmure will be even more vulnerable
to attack from disturbed youngsters, it was claimed yesterday.

The residential school near Glasgow was blasted for poor management last year
after Scotland's worst secure-unit riot.

Now, staff have been told a huge fall in demand for places means bosses need to
slash 40 of around 80 posts.

A letter from the school's lawyers to employees said its roll had dropped from
37 at the time of the riot last March, to 18 this month.

Many staff claim the riot and poor management has led to the drop in demand.
Riot police were called to the disturbance, which was triggered by a row over
football.

Staff locked themselves in a room as a 16-year-old boy - who was later locked up
for four years over the riot - led a gang of around 16 on a nine-hour rampage.

One insider said: "Councils have hardly been queuing up to place people here
since the riot." There are now around 100 children in Scotland's seven secure
care units..

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SLAMMED: St Mark's Kenmure

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riots have 'made life harder and damaged our prospects'

BYLINE: Kaya Burgess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 415 words


Young people across Britain are still feeling a backlash from the riots last
summer, while many in worst-hit areas feel their communities have not recovered
from the violence, a survey has found.

Two thirds of 16 to 25-year-olds nationwide believe that the August riots have
damaged young people's prospects, while more than 20 per cent of youths surveyed
by the Prince's Trust in riot-affected London boroughs felt that their areas
still bore scars of the unrest. The survey also compared the responses of young
people in riot-affected areas with the national average, and found that a lower
proportion of those in affected boroughs believed they had a positive adult role
model, or a strong support network around them. Also, 49 per cent of young
people in riot-hit areas said that they "never" or only "sometimes" felt
hopeful, compared with 39 per cent nationally.

The trust's research, which was conducted two months ago, with the results
released yesterday to The Times, also found that almost half of the 2,136 young
people questioned believed that the riots had made life harder for the
worst-off, widening the gap between advantaged and disadvantaged people in their
areas.

One young person that The Times spoke to felt that there were some positives
from the riots, however. Kishanth Javegar, 20, lives near Clapham Junction,
where looting and fires broke out around the high street, including in the
Debenhams store where he works parttime.

He said: "I feel like we are a lot closer community in Clapham Junction after so
many people came out to help clear up and write positive messages on the
boarded-up shop windows. Hopefully not everyone is narrow-minded enough to see
all young people in the same way as the violent minority."

The majority of the 3,000 people arrested as a result of the riots were under
25, and the final tally of damage repair and insurance claims is expected to
cost more than £100 million.

The Department for Communities and Local Government declined to comment on the
survey findings, but pointed towards plans announced by David Cameron to target
"troubled families" as evidence that the Government was making efforts to deal
with the aftermath of the riots.

Paul Brown, a Prince's Trust spokesman, said: "The research shows that many
young people have not forgotten [the] riots and may still be feeling the impact.
At the Prince's Trust, we know the vast majority of young people were not
involved in criminal activity, but many feel more vulnerable than ever."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kishanth Javegar: "I feel we are a lot closer community"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                    September 18, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Not involved in Muzaffarnagar riots: Azam

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 332  words


Lucknow, Sept 18 (IBNS) Senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan on
Wednesday said he hs nothing to with  Muzaffarnagar riots that claimed at least
48 lives recently.

"I have nothing to do with Muzaffarnagar riots. I am not involved," said Khan.

Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday cordoned off the state assembly
and reports said they may arest accused MLAs.

Khan on Monday slammed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and top brass of Congress
party for touring riot-hit Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.

"Manmohan Singh has gone to Muzaffarnagar... it is good... elections are near so
he should do this," Khan told reporters here.

He said if the PM is so concerned about communal riots, then he should have also
visited other areas like Faizabad, Mathura and Bareilly, where riots have taken
place in the past.

He also defended the state government over the handling of the situation and
said it has followed law so far, which helped in stopping the riots.

"We have followed the law so far and will continue doing so. It is the law that
has stopped the violence in Muzaffarnagar."

Khan alleged that the riots in Muzaffarnagar were triggered by fascist forces
which operate under the cover of secularism.

"Fascists in the country were bothered by the fact that the Samajwadi Party is
peacefully in power in UP," Khan told reporters.

"Whatever happened there was bad and we condemn it. WE will take strict action
against the perpetrators," he said.

Khan reportedly skipped a crucial national executive party meeting in Agra last
week and his absence was speculated as a registration of protest over the
Muzaffarnagar riots that have killed at least 44 people.

NDTV citing sources even reported that Khan had told supporters that he blames
the state government for failing to prevent the riots despite myriad warning
signs.

However, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav had denied all reports of rifts within
the party and said Khan could never be upset with him.

Image courtesy: Wikipedia/Creative Commons

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday

Riot victim debt waiver only for those who took loans as such: Punjab and
Haryana high court

BYLINE: Ajay Sura

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 407 words


CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that the victims of 1984
anti-Sikh riots are not entitled to claim the scheme of loan waiver, if they had
not sought loan by presenting themselves as riot victims. The case pertained to
a group of petitioners, who had taken loan from banking institutions and later
sought waiver on the grounds of being riot victims. However, at the time of
taking the loan, they had not presented themselves as riot victims.

The high court, however, asked the banks "to deal with the petitioners,
especially for non-commercial loans, in sympathetic manner as possible, keeping
in view that the petitioners are riot victims". It also clarified that loan
taken from "non-banking financial companies and private banks are not covered
under the scheme". It was also cleared by the court that loans in such cases,
applied after June 30, 1996, would not be entitled for the waiver scheme.

Justice Rajiv Narain Raina of the Punjab and Haryana high court passed the
orders while dismissing petitions by riot victims.

To rehabilitate Sikh migrants, who became victims of 1984 riots, the government
had formulated schemes to ameliorate their lot, by providing for easier terms to
raise loans from banking institutions. Under the scheme, only loans taken prior
to June 30, 1996, till the date of actual liquidation of the account, were to be
written off by the lending banks/financial institutions.

The petitioners were engaged in business and work through establishments run in
separate industrial plots in Industrial Focal Point, Mohali. They claimed that
they were victims of the 1984 riots, were re-settled in Punjab and have been
issued Red cards by the district administration in proof of being riot victims.

The petitioners had taken loans from nationalized banks, private banks,
cooperative banks and from non-banking financial institutions for different
purposes on different dates after June 30, 1996.

In their petition, they pleaded that the scheme of loan waiver should be
implemented in their favour. Citing section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, they contended that the Reserve Bank of India has the powers to give
directions, in public interest and in the interest of banking policy, to
banks/financial institutions to either write off loans or to come to the aid of
petitioners to save them from the quicksand of debt. The HC, however, turned
down their pleas.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 31, 2001

Police counting the cost of race riots

BYLINE: ANDREW NOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 311 words


Insurance won't cover all GBP 2m bill


POLICE have taken the first step towards paying a massive bill for damage caused
during the Oldham race riots.

A 120-year-old law means that compensation must come from the public purse.
Greater Manchester Police Authority's emergency committee has met to consider
the implications of claims estimated at GBP 2 million.

However it is understood the authority has insurance to cover some of the bill.
Members met in secret session at Swinton yesterday to study the claims and how
to proceed.

Another meeting will be held soon to decide which claims should be paid and
which should be contested.  People who suffered damage in the riots can claim on
their own insurance, but the Riot (Damages) Act of 1886 enables insurance
companies to recover the money from police.

People not insured can claim directly against police if damage happened during
the riot or as a consequence of it.

The Victorian riot act was designed to charge the local police for failing to
prevent people behaving in a riotous or tumultuous'' manner.  When it was
invoked in 1981 following riots in Moss Side, Toxteth, London and Bristol, the
Conservative Government promised to reconsider it. But nothing changed.

GMP declared some of the unrest in Oldham to be a riot.  But Lancashire Police,
faced with violence in Burnley, were careful never to use the word riot and will
contest any claims.

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police Authority said: Members have been
updated on the present state of claims. A further meeting will be held soon.''
Anyone claiming for damage to cars parked in the street will not be able to sue
the police as cars - non existent in 1886 - are not covered by the legislation.

Cars parked in garages are covered as part of the household goods.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                              July 15, 2016 Friday
                              FRI REGIONAL Edition

Should Denver police wear riot gear while monitoring protests?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 317 words


Re: "Union wrong on police riot gear," July 13 editorial.

Your editorial excoriating the Denver Police union for wanting to wear riot gear
at protests seems to be lacking in logic.

First you tell us they don't need this gear as it might appear intimidating to
the public. Then in the next breath you defend the practice when you say, "Of
course there are protests in which police need riot gear to protect them. More
than 20 officers in St. Paul, Minn. were injured last weekend by rocks, bottles,
and other objects thrown by protesters ... ." What you seem to be saying is wait
until the police are attacked and officers injured, and then and only then strap
on the riot gear.

Sounds like the old "shut the barn door after the horses got out" story. Not too
much comfort for the policeman or woman who gets injured, maimed or killed, or
their families either.

Michael R. Hudson, Pueblo

* * *

The Denver Post is absolutely correct regarding riot gear and protests.
Protests, guaranteed by the Constitution, are largely planned to be peaceful,
particularly those protests that are planned and known by police. The easy
answer is to watch the numerous videos of the protests at Baton Rouge riot
geared police vs. Dallas, no riot gear. The results recorded at Baton Rouge show
police aggressively charging unarmed protesters, and numerous arrests. The
results in Dallas were quite different: protester police photos and peaceful
marches.

Michael Lutz, Parker

* * *

Your editorial was way off base. It contained the words "riot gear" eight times
and "protective gear" the proper name only once. Regardless of what anyone
believes, the police are entitled to wear whatever they require to add to their
safety.

Further, I read the letter that Nick Rogers, president of the Denver Police
Protective Association, wrote to the mayor. I did not read anything that was
"truculent," as your editorial stated.

Joe Power, Denver

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 10, 2014

Muzaffarnagar riots loom large over UP first phase

BYLINE: RATAN MANI LAL

LENGTH: 471  words


Lucknow: The shadow of riots in Muzaffarnagar looms large over the ten
constituencies which go to polls on Thursday (April 10) in the first phase of
Lok Sabha election in Uttar Pradesh.



Among the star candidates are actors Raj Babbar, Jaya Prada, Nagma, former army
chief VK Singh, Union minister Ajit Singh, Muzaffarnagar riot accused Kadir
Rana, hate speech accused Imran Masood and former TV presenter Shazia Ilmi.

The entire region in western UP bordering NCR, Uttaranchal and Haryana is
considered sensitive in view of the simmering communal tension in Muzaffarnagar
and adjoining areas.

The Samajwadi Party government's handling of the riots and its aftermath,
including relief and rehabilitation of the riot victims, belonging to both Hindu
and Muslim communities, has come under fire from all quarters, including the
Supreme Court.

SP boss Mulayam Singh Yadav recently visited Muzaffarnagar for the first time
after the riots and blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party for the communal divide in
the area.

Surveys and non-government studies suggest that there is great bitterness among
Muslims and Jats of the area against the SP; while the Muslims may get swayed
towards the Bahujan Samaj Party, the BJP too is likely to reap electoral
benefits in some constituencies.

Amit Shah had been handpicked by Narendra Modi to tour the area extensively and
spread the word that the BJP is behind Jats who were aggrieved over the SP
government's allegedly onesided action in cases related to the riots.

Prominent among the constituencies going to polls is Muzaffarnagar, The
epicentre of last year's riots has SP's Virender Singh facing BSP's Kadir Rana,
an accused in the riots cases, Pankaj Agarwal from the Congress and Sanjeev
Kumar Balyan from the BJP. Rana is the sitting MP from here.

In Bijnor, the RLD has fielded former actress Jaya Prada in place of the sitting
MP Sanjay Chauhan. Jaya Prada had recently joined RLD along with Amar Singh. In
Meerut, film actress Nagma is the Congress candidate and facing the sitting MP
Rajendra Agarwal of the BJP. SP has fielded Shahid Manzoor and the BSP candidate
is Shahid Akhlaq. Nagma was in the news recently over the noncooperation of
local Congress workers. Baghpat is the traditional seat of RLD chief and Union
minister Ajit Singh as his father late Charan Singh represented it for many
years. He faces Ghulam Mohammed of the SP, Prashant Chaudhri of the BSP and
former Mumbai police commissioner Satya Pal Singh of the BJP. Ghaziabad has
several stars in the fray. From the Congress it is Raj Babbar, while the BJP has
fielded former Army Chief Gen (retired) V.K. Singh, and the Aam Aadmi party has
put up Shazia Ilmi. BJP chief Rajnath Singh represented this seat but has
preferred to move to Lucknow this time. The SP candidate is Saudhan Rawat and
the BSP has fielded Mukul Upadhyay.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Post

                                February 2, 2012
                                  1st Edition

Riots panel member visits city for answers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 290 words


A MEMBER of the panel set up by the government to explore why the August riots
happened is visiting Liverpool today.

Simon Marcus, a member of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, will see how
areas have recovered and try to ensure affected residents have their voices
heard.

The Panel has been travelling around England visiting areas that were affected
by the riots.

Writing for The Liverpool Post, Mr Marcus said: "We have been speaking to local
residents, shopkeepers, young people and voluntary organisations about their
experiences last summer.

"You can see our initial findings in our interim report
www.5daysin-August.co.uk.

"Liverpool had 146 crimes committed over the five days of rioting last August as
shops were looted, vehicles were burnt and buildings were vandalised.

"During my visit I will meet with police officers who were on the front line
during the riots, visit a community centre and speak with youth offending teams,
local business representatives and voluntary groups to hear about the excellent
work that goes on in the local community.

"I will also visit some of the worst affected areas across the city to see how
residents and businesses have managed to recover and re-build to return to a
sense of 'normality'.

"There has been no shortage of national commentary, opinion and speculation on
the riots, and this visit is really valuable in allowing me to cut through that,
listen to local people and actually understand events from the point of view of
those directly affected.

"This is a Panel for the people - and we want to hear from you. Were you a
victim, were you tempted to riot or did you stop your children from rioting? We
are committed to work to ensure future riots can be prevented."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Simon Marcus MP Police tackle riots in south Liverpool last August

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

150 inmates involved in prison riot

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 290 words


FOLSOM

Prison riot bigger than reported

More than 150 maximum-security inmates were involved in Wednesday's riot at the
California State prison in Folsom. Eleven inmates were injured.

Two inmates remain hospitalized Thursday. The rest were treated for minor
injuries and released. They had stab and gunshot wounds. None of the guards were
injured by the prisoners, but a guard went to the hospital because of breathing
problems caused by pepper spray.

The riot happened about 12:30 p.m. in the main exercise yard at California State
Prison-Sacramento, also known as the new Folsom Prison. The riot lasted about 10
minutes.

More than 400 staff members and officers responded to the riot. Officers used
pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under control.

Herald wire reports

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Two tower guards fired those rounds. Tower guards are the only guards allowed to
use such ammunition.

Quinn told FOX40 that three inmates were hit with the lethal rounds, but their
conditions are unknown.

Officials found five weapons used by the inmates hidden in the yard. A more
thorough, "grid" search was done Thursday morning.

The facility will remain on lockdown, pending the investigation, but Quinn said
that shouldn't affect visitors. The facility is only open to visitors during the
weekend.

Officials at the prison told FOX40 there was also a smaller riot on Monday. No
weapons were used.

All inmates involved in the riot will be charged.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.     (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit
KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Riot victims blame govt for plot allotment

BYLINE: Sandeep Dua

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 302 words


LUDHIANA: Riot victims on Wednesday again levelled allegations against the
government ahead of process of collection of forms for allotment of flats that
will be re-initiated on Thursday. It was quite evident that the government had
given the relaxation of the monthly income condition that was objected to by the
riot victims.

They said that they had not even received Rs 2 lakh under the rehabilitation
grant scheme, which was initiated by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh because of
the lethargic attitude of the bureaucracy as they had rejected 10,000 files of
the riot victims for issuing them the red card.

Alleging foul play on the part of anti-Sikh officers in allotting 100 plots and
booths, the riot victims said that the Punjab government had decided to allot
1,700 plots and booths in the city. But deputy commissioner Rahul Tewari said
that only 1,150 persons were entitled as they had proper addresses.

Demanding red cards and plots for victims between 2001 to 2010, they said that
the 2,000 victims who were not able to submit their applications earlier should
be allowed to do so.

The riot victims will be blocking the road on the chief minister?s visit on
October 12 and the five-member riot victim welfare society would sit on the
indefinite hunger strike outside the chief minister?s house.

Tewari said that the process would be fair and transparent and riot victims
would get their due as he would be monitoring every process individually and the
issue was on the top priority list of the government. The riot victims should
not blame the district administration as they were trying their level best so
that the justice can be done to riot victims and they were conducting the
verification process in a very organized way and no formalities would be
completed in haste.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 18, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

18 slain in rival mob uprisings in 2 jails

BYLINE: EAVAN MURRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 127 words


AT least 18 inmates died in two separate prison riots involving rival gangs,
with authorities in Brazil investigating a possible connection between the
uprisings.

At least ten of the prisoners died in a mutiny in the northern state of Roraima,
while eight others perished in a riot about 1,300km to the south in Rondonia.

Roraima's justice secretary Uziel Castro said three of the bodies found after
the Monte Cristo jail riot had been beheaded.

He said every penitentiary system in Brazil "was aware something was about to
happen" - but authorities were surprised when the riots erupted on visitor day.

A Rondonia police source said the Santos Pinheiro riot was started by powerful
prison gang the Primeiro Comando da Capital, which is looking to expand to other
jails.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Called in . . Riot police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2016 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday

Police brace for riots in the streets Worst violence ever, fears top NSW cop

BYLINE: AMY COOPES

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 572  words


POLICE yesterday warned that a violent, full-scale riot is ''probable'' when up
to 20,000 anti-APEC protesters march on central Sydney on Saturday.

New South Wales' top riot squad officer, Chief Superintendent Stephen Cullen,
told a Sydney court he was braced for the worst violence of his career, adding
he had never held more serious concerns for public safety.

Protesters have vowed not to back down on their plan to walk to the edge of
police lines on Saturday, despite the police commissioner winning a court order
yesterday banning them from doing so.

''Police lines will come under attack and a full-scale riot is probable,'' Supt
Cullen, commander of the Public Order and Riot Squad, told the hearing in the
NSW Supreme Court.

''Based upon my research, experience, current intelligence and evidence from
internationally similar events -- more recently G20 in Melbourne -- I have
absolutely no doubt that minority groups will engage in a level of violence not
previously experienced in Sydney.''

Up to 20,000 people are expected to gather in Sydney's CBD to walk against war,
global warming and a host of other concerns as 21 world leaders meet during the
APEC summit.

NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione received 68 applications for
APEC-related demonstrations, the most controversial being a bid from the Stop
Bush Coalition.

After negotiations reached a stalemate, the commissioner successfully sought to
have the coalition's proposed march route vetoed in court.

Protesters had already conceded their original plan to march through Martin
Place was not viable, due to police barriers to be erected along King Street on
Saturday.

The Stop Bush Coalition then proposed ending the rally at the King Street
barriers, but while Justice Michael Adams agreed freedom of speech was paramount
in a democratic society, he said ending the rally at that point would make it a
target.

''In my view, the attitude of the commissioner to this application is a
reasonable one and accordingly I grant the orders sought,'' he said.

Outside court, rally organiser Alex Bainbridge would not rule out going ahead
with a peaceful march to King Street, accepting that he and others could face
arrest as a consequence.

''The court has made very clear that we have got a right to protest,'' Mr
Bainbridge said.

''The court order today prohibits nothing. Our rally and demonstration will be
going ahead.

''As we have always said, we intend for this to be a peaceful protest. We have
never ruled out non-violent civil disobedience.''

Mr Scipione called the court order ''common sense''.

''We are pleased with the decision but it doesn't mean that our job will be any
easier or more difficult, nothing changes,'' he said.

Police told the court they feared groups of ''well-drilled, disciplined''
antagonists would infiltrate Saturday's protest, whipping up a violent mob
mentality.

''Never in my career have I held such serious concerns for public safety as I do
during the conduct of APEC or, more specifically, this particular march,'' Supt
Cullen said.

Elsewhere in Sydney, student protesters continued the anti-APEC actions by
defying a truancy blitz and attending a peaceful gathering in Sydney's Belmore
Park.

The arrival of US President George Bush on Tuesday night, and China's President
Hu Jintao yesterday, meant traffic snarls would hit their peak this morning as
the leaders moved around the city in their motorcades, Transport Minister John
Watkins said.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

AAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Riot report is a police secret

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 206 words


The Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, is refusing to release an internal report
about February's Redfern riot until after the coronial inquest into Thomas "TJ"
Hickey's death, despite the coroner having "no view" on whether it should be
made public.

A taskforce, Strikeforce Coburn, has been investigating police actions during
the riot, in which 40 police were injured.

A parliamentary inquiry into the riot has recommended that the Police Minister,
John Watkins, release the Coburn report "as soon as possible".

Mr Watkins responded that the report was an internal police document and the
commissioner had sought advice from the NSW Coroner, John Abernethy, about
whether its release would affect the inquest into the death of 17-year-old
Thomas Hickey, whose death sparked the riot.

Yesterday, Mr Moroney's spokeswoman said he would not release the report until
after the coroner's findings were handed down later this month.

However, the executive officer to the NSW State Coroner, Stephen Olischlager,
said the office had advised the police legal department on July 16 that Mr
Abernethy would look at the report until he handed down his findings. "He's got
no view either way as to whether it should or should not be released," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

Christmas Island guards 'not equipped for riots'

BYLINE: BEN HARVEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 235 words


CHRISTMAS Island authorities were woefully unprepared for a riot at the
detention centre, according to a leaked police analysis of security at the
compound. The dossier, which was compiled in December 2009, predicted that an
uprising like last week's riots could not be contained by either police or
security staff from the centre's private operator, Serco. The Public Order
Management (POM) Assessment was put together by the Federal Police's operational
response group - the same unit that clashed with rampaging detainees last week.
Serco staff were found to have no confidence in their own ability to deal with a
riot and were observed by police to have "physical capabilities insufficient to
undertake effective and sustained POM operations". The company's anti-riot
squads are based on the mainland and staff did not believe they could get to the
island in time to respond to a riot. "Staff have received minimal or no training
in more advanced techniques required in the [immigration detention centre], such
as internal building clearance, stairwell drills, overhead protection formations
and officer down drills," the report said. Meanwhile, immigration minister Chris
Bowen has insisted offshore processing at the island will continue despite the
redirection of a string of boats to the mainland. A second boat to be
intercepted since the protests, carrying 57 asylum seekers, will be sent to the
mainland.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           January 12, 2006 Thursday

'No signs of trouble' before riot broke out

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 365 words


The governor in charge of Lincoln Prison at the time of a riot told an inquest
there were no warning signs before it happened.

Richard Peacock told a Lincoln jury  that the administration "did what we could"
to prevent any trouble.

The riot started on Wednesday, October 23,  2002 when a group of inmates stole
an officer's keys.

Prisoner Lee Blake (37), of Scunthorpe, was found dead on Friday, October 25 in
a cell on A wing at the Greetwell Road jail.

Andrew Pascoe, the Blake family's solicitor, asked Mr Peacock about a number of
incidents which happened before the riot.

These included complaints from prison officers about short-staffing and
complaints from inmates including a threat by riot ringleader Michael Westwood
of "extreme violence" if his request to transfer prisons was refused.

"We had no specific evidence prior to the riot that anything was going to
happen," said Mr Peacock.

Earlier, the inquest heard that Blake was seen with between 30 to 40 tablets on
the night of the riot.

The authorities took back control of the prison about 4.30am on Thursday morning
and prisoners  were locked up.

Mr Pascoe asked Mr Peacock what procedures were in place for finding drugs and
identifying which inmates needed medical attention  after the authorities
regained control.

"All staff were aware that this was a problem. We had to keep a look-out all the
time," said Mr Peacock.

He added he had ordered a member of staff on every landing so they could react
to cell alarms from inmates and for cells to be "checked".

Mr Pascoe said records showed inmates on A wing were not searched until Friday
afternoon.

"In an ideal situation we would have searched every cell and had every prisoner
examined by a medical officer," he told the jury.

"I could only do what I could with the resources I had."

Mr Peacock added that the prison was a 'scene of crime' and the authorities had
to be careful not to destroy evidence.

A post-mortem examination report read to the jury revealed that Blake had a
lethal dose of morphine in his blood.

Professor Guy Rutty concluded Blake had died as a result  of taking a "cocktail"
of drugs.

The inquest continues.

For more crime stories go to www.thisislincolnshire.co.uk/999

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday

Riot police hone skills before heading for peace-keeping

LENGTH: 294  words


total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peace-keeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
capital of east China's Shandong Province, Feb 9, 2015.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

A total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peacekeeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. It is the third
group of Chinese riot police to head for the western African country.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Qiao Lihua, a member of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia, examines her
shooting scores during a drill in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Falmouth Packet

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Miniature mayhem in Falmouth with riot police, vandals and overturned cars

BYLINE: Peter Johnstone

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Scenes of destruction and chaos arrived in Falmouth on Friday with looting,
vandalism, riot police and a lorry smashing through a fast food store - but
luckily all in the name of art.

The scenes of carnage were all rendered in 1:87 models, safely contained in a
shipping container as part of the latest project by artist and musician Jimmy
Cauty.

The Aftermath Dislocation Principle (ADP) Riot tour - which appeared at Banksy's
Dismaland last year - was carried into town in it's 40 foot container by
articulated lorry, and plenty of visitors have already put their eyes up to the
many observation ports ranged along it's sides to view the disorder that lies
within.

Falmouth is the latest stop on ADP Riot's UK-wide tour, described by the artist
as a pilgrimage to historic riot sites around the country, from more recent
events or more time-honoured ones, although it is not intended to romanticise
the role of social disorder.

Leaflets are available explaining each location's riot, in Falmouth's case in
1810 when the riot act was read to mutineers on the packet ships who had become
enraged over customs officers taking goods which they believed were one of the
perks of the job.

The leaflet also refers to civil unrest in Cornwall in 1727 when tin miners
plundered the granaries of Falmouth, the Cornish rebellion of 1497 and the
Prayer Book Rebellion of 1549, and the Newlyn fish riots of 1896.

People visiting the piece are encouraged to add graffiti to the container, which
is becoming gradually covered as the tour progresses.

The organisers said: "Far from inciting another riot, we hope the experience of
the ADP in Falmouth will be a fun, peaceful and thought-provoking one, with the
only real disturbance being the constant chatter of miniature police radios,
dotted all over the exhibit."

The artist, Jimmy Cauty, co-created the chart-topping band The KLF, and its
subsequent incarnation The K Foundation, which became notorious in 1994 for
burning £1 million.

The work has been brought to Falmouth with the help of Falmouth Town Council,
the Independent School of Art and Falmouth Art Gallery, with art gallery
director Henrietta Boex calling it "a bit of a coup for Falmouth."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

Riot-accused MLA gets 'Z' security

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 387 words


BJP MLA Som Sangeet, accused of instigating last year's Muzaffarnagar riots in
UP, has been accorded 'Z' category security, just a notch lower than the highest
protection extended to a threatened VIP. It was approved by the home ministry
after intelligence inputs warned of a threat to his life from alleged extremist
elements.

Som, who represents the Sardhana assembly seat in western UP, is likely to be
protected by CRPF commandos. "We have received a letter from the Centre
regarding upgrade of Som's security (from Y category) to Z category," UP's IG
(Law and Order) Amrendra Singh Sengar was quoted by PTI as saying. The letter
has been forwarded to the agency concerned, he said.

The move to grant 'Z' security cover to the riot-accused legislator was

slammed by opposition parties, including the Congress and JD(U), which called it
"a joke on the victims of Muzaffarnagar riots". But the BJP defended the
government's decision as based on "independent assessment" of the threat
perception by the intelligence agencies.

Sources said home minister Rajnath Singh approved 'Z' category protection for
Som after he was convinced that his life was under a genuine threat from
religious extremists.

However, the Congress minced no words in criticizing the move to shield a riot
-accused. "It's a weird thing. It's a strange government. Those who are victims
of riots are running from pillar to post and those who are riot-accused are
getting Z category security...nothing can be a bigger irony, a bigger joke with

those, whose houses were burnt and those who suffered huge losses," remarked
Congress leader Manish Tewari.

Another Congress leader Rashid Alvi questioned the move to provide security to
those allegedly engaged in killings, while leaving the riot victims in the
lurch.

"This security cover is not for Som but a licence for killing innocent people
and fanning communal disharmony between two communities of a highly sensitive
state," said JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi.

In a statement, he said the move "will encourage such people involved in
instigating hatred in the society and will create a sense of insecurity and
further alienation among the minorities".

The BJP countered, saying the decision was based on "sufficient evidence" from
intelligence agencies and not on the "whims and fancies" of the government.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday

Thai army, navy, air force, marines to receive training in riot control

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 19 February

Troops from the army, navy, air force and marines will receive training in riot
control as pro-and anti-Thaksin Shinawatra forces look increasingly to be on a
collision course.

First Army commander Kanit Sapitak has told the 11th Infantry Battalion to
prepare officers from the three armed forces as well as the marines for riot
control operations and help them set up riot control units.

The battalion is recognised for its riot control skills and serves as a riot
control model for other military units.

A Defence Ministry source said the move was intended to deal with possible
clashes between members of the United Front of Democracy against Dictatorship
(UDD) and supporters of the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD).

The PAD has announced plans to hold rallies in the provinces, including those
which are considered strongholds of the Puea Thai party, while the UDD has plans
to hold protests against the Democrat-led coalition government, including a
major gathering scheduled for next Tuesday.

The navy formed a riot control unit late last year to support police in dealing
with PAD demonstrators who seized Suvarnabhumi airport.

The Defence source said the navy had no experience in riot control and had to be
trained.

He said the army, navy and air force would probably have to work together and
pool their resources and men to cope with the planned demonstrations by the PAD
and UDD.

The military riot units will be trained not to use weapons against protesters,
and they will be equipped only with shields, batons and helmets.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 19 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                              June 24, 2016 Friday

Pictures:Protestors demand immediate evacuation of Vp Mphoko - NewsDay Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 375  words


THERE was commotion at the Rainbow Towers Hotel in Harare Friday as a group of
protesters stormed the hotel demanding the immediate removal of Vice President,
Phelekezeka Mphoko.

All pictures by Tafadzwa Ufumeli

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters inside the Rainbow Towers Hotel

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters before his arrest.

Riot Police drags Stan Zvorwadza

A riot police officer manhandles a protester

Anti riot police gang up to lift up a protester who was resisting arrest

Anti riot police pushes Stan Zworwadza into a police truck

Riot police gang up to pull Zvorwadza who had jumped off the moving truck

Police forces Zvorwadza into the truck

Zvorwadza lies hurt on the tarmac after falling from the police truck

A police officer holds Zvorwadza by his trousers

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck.

Zvorwadza continues to chants as  he his finally overpowered

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/69/146678515243.jpg

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protestors inside the Raibow Towers Hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/61/146678515455.jpg

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters before his arrest.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/94/146678515678.jpg

Riot Police drags Stan Zvorwadza outside the Hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/25/146678515854.jpg

A riot police officer drags a protestor in full sight of a chinese boy inside
the hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/99/146678516102.jpg

Riot police gang up to lift up a protester who was resisting to be arrested

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/43/146678516285.jpg

Riot police pushes Stan Zworwadza inside the truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/88/146678516468.jpg

Riot police gang up to pull Stan Zvorwadza who had jumped off the moving truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/76/146678516640.jpg

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/88/146678516836.jpg

Zvorwadza lies on the ground after falling from the Police truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/57/146678516999.jpg

A police officer holds Zvorwadza's trousers whilst lying on the ground

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/42/146678517174.jpg

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/21/146678517347.jpg

Zvorwadza continues with his chants after being arrested by police.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2016 NewsDay
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      November 29, 2015 Sunday 4:32 PM GMT

Paris climate change protesters clash violently with riot police as demo turns
ugly;
The protest had earlier been marked with a poignant display of 20,000 pairs of
shoes in acknowledgment of the terror attacks two weeks ago

BYLINE: By Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 431 words


This is the moment Paris climate change protesters clashed with riot police as a
demo turned ugly.

Cops with riot shields and batons launched tear gas cannisters as masked
anarchists pelted them with rocks and tried to start a riot in the city as
police stopped them demonstrating before the UN climate change summit.

All protests have been banned in the capital city following the terrorist
attacks two weeks ago in which 130 people died.

But around 500 people turned up in Place de la Republique anyway, and started
throwing bottles and stones at CRS riot squads.

Earlier, a pair of shoes belonging to the Pope was among thousands left in the
famous square, as a protest against the banning of a climate change march.

'We can understand why the police are scared of further trouble, but we still
think we should have been able to march,' said a protest organiser.

Protestors clash with riot police

Prime Minister David Cameron and Prince Charles were among those due in arrive
in Paris, along with US President Barack Obama, China's Xi Jinping, India's
Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

All will attend the start of the Paris conference, which is tasked with reaching
the first truly universal climate pact.

Read more: Paris turned into a sea of shoes as climate change campaigners lay
20,000 pairs in symbolic street protest

The goal is to limit average global warming to two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) by curbing fossil fuel emissions blamed for climate change.

It comes as scientists warn of a world that will be increasingly inhospitable to
human life, with massive storms, drought, and rising sea levels that swamp vast
areas of land becoming routine.

Major roads into Paris were closed today, as they will be on Monday too.

Paris shoes dawn pic

Some 2,800 police and soldiers are guarding the hermetically-sealed conference
venue near Le Bourget airport, north of the French capital.

Another 6,300 officers are deployed in the city itself, while armoured vehicles
are also on the streets.

Prince Charles arrives today and will address the opening session of the
two-week UN conference, repeating his view that climate change is partly
responsible for war such as the one raging in Syria.

The Prince will also be at the Institut de France in central Paris on Monday to
receive the Francois Rabelais prize for his organic farming and global
protection work.

With France still under a State of Emergency since the attacks, the authorities
have cancelled two major rallies.

Some 24 climate activists have also been placed under house arrest, using the
emergency powers.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       August 10, 2015 Monday 1:48 PM GMT

Run the Jewels' Killer Mike: 'I'm an American because of a riot';
As Ferguson marks the one-year anniversary of Michael Brown's killing, Killer
Mike and El-P talk about the power of protest

BYLINE: Guardian music

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 266 words


Run the Jewels have described the power of protest in the wake of the one-year
anniversary of the fatal shooting of Michael Brown. The rap duo, who have been
vocal during the #BlackLivesMatter movement, said that the riots were
instrumental in enforcing change in the US.

"I'm an American because of a riot," Killer Mike told the BBC. "So, when people
say 'riots don't work,' well, Ferguson was over 60% a black community. They had
less than 60% representation in politics. Post-riots, they have two new black
city council members. They have actual advocates in the community now. The
police chief retired. So, if it was argued that riots worked in Ferguson,
abso-fucking-lutely they did."

Run the Jewels also described "the weird, tragic and serendipitous experience"
of entering St Louis during the Ferguson verdict in 2014, when "everyone else
was driving as fast as they could to get out of [the city]".

Audience-shot footage of their show there went viral, as an emotional Killer
Mike quoted Martin Luther King, Jr and expressed fears for his children's future
during the performance.

El-P told the BBC: "Every word that you're saying all of a sudden means 100
times more than it meant the night before. To see my friend talk, I was crying
onstage. It was very powerful," El-P told the BBC.

The past year, Killer Mike has established himself as an influential speaker on
US race relations. He has since stated his desire to run as a state
representative in Georgia, has appeared on CNN and has hosted a number of
university lectures in the wake of police brutality in the US.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

1 dead in Syria refugee camp riot: Jordan

LENGTH: 295  words

DATELINE: Karachi


A man was killed and 10 Syrian refugees were arrested when a riot erupted in a
desert camp of northern Jordan, a security chief said on Sunday. "Unknown
assailants shot and killed a 25-year-old Syrian man during the riots on
Saturday" at Zaatari refugee camp, Brigadier General Waddah Hmud said. "Police
did not use weapons against the refugee," Hmud, who heads a department in charge
of Syrian refugee affairs, told reporters at the sprawling camp.

Another security official named the dead man as Khalid Nemri.  Jordanian
officials said the riot broke out after the detention of a group of refugees who
had left the camp "illegally". Three refugees were injured. "Around 5,000
Syrians took part in the riots. Anti-riot police had to fire tear gas to
disperse them," Hmud said. UN refugee agency the UNHCR said in a statement that
"three Syrian refugees were sent to hospital with gunshot wounds and one has
since died". The agency said the trouble began after a Jordanian vehicle was
stopped for a routine check while leaving the camp. Police at the checkpoint
"discovered that the driver was attempting to smuggle a Syrian refugee family
out of the camp," a UNHCR statement said. It said the driver and family were
detained, but once this became known, relatives and friends of the Syrian family
headed for the police post. "Soon several hundred, possibly thousands refugees
were on scene and throwing rocks at the Gendarmes and the situation quickly
evolved from a heated demonstration to a violent one." The UNHCR called on
Syrian refugees "to respect Jordanian law". Since opening two years ago, Zaatari
near the border with Syria has been the scene of several protests, mainly over
poor living conditions. Jordan is currently home to more than 500,000 Syrian
refugees.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             August 5, 2013 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Government accused of insulting riot victims after burying its response to
inquiry report

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 374 words


AN MP has accused the Government of "insulting" the victims of the 2011 summer
riots in several English cities.

Labour's David Lammy said the Coalition had failed to respond to many of the
recommendations of a panel it commissioned to look into communities' experience
of the unrest.

The MP for Tottenham in London, where the riots began two years ago, said
ministers buried their formal response to the report of the Riots, Communities
and Victims Panel by releasing it without fanfare last month.

There was no ministerial statement and no separate press release to mark the
publication of the response, which was attached to a Communities and Local
Government Department release on July 12.

Even one member of the panel - which spent six months visiting cities affected
by the riots to talk to victims, and produced a report with 63 recommendations
in March 2012 - said he was unaware that there had been a response.

The document appears to ignore the panel's recommendations, instead
concentrating on the action taken by Government to deal with the criminals
involved in vandalism and looting, and restore business and community
confidence.

Mr Lammy told BBC Radio 4's World This Weekend yesterday: "We had four days of
rioting, taxpayers' money was spent on this victims and communities inquiry, and
the Government slipped this out the day before recess with no press release at
all.

"It deserved a ministerial statement. It deserved a serious discussion in the
House of Commons.

"When you look at the report and see that 39 of the recommendations, out of 63,
have not even been addressed - the Government hasn't even had the decency to
reject them - I have to say this is an insult to the five people who lost their
lives, it's an insult to the many, many ordinary people. The public saw four
days of burning in cities as far afield as Birmingham and Manchester and London
and the Government has not been prepared to explain why it is that it's not
prepared to accept the recommendations of its own inquiry."

"There have been a large number of different activities that we have done," he
told the programme. "This is just one part of the package. Surely what
ultimately matters is ... what we are actually doing, rather than getting
publicity for it."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHAOS: The riots in English cities started in Tottenham.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

Three of the 52 riot accused get clean chit

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 170  words


The Mumbai Crime Branch has filed an application for the release of three people
out of the 51 arrested in connection with the riots at Azad Maidan on August 11.

???The three men - Abbas Ujjainwwala, ???Anees Daware and Aslam Ali Sheikh -
have been found innocent. They were arrested on the day of the riot from the
spot along with 21 others.

During interrogation, the police found that the trio was not involved in the
riots and had been wrongly arrested. "We have filed an application with the
Esplanade Court under section 169 of the CrPC. The trio would be released after
the legal procedure is over," said a source from the crime branch.

The crime branch said there was no evidence that the trio had taken part in the
riots.  Meanwhile, Mohamed Mehtab Akhtar Hussain Shaikh was arrested on Monday
in connection with the riots in Azad Maidan, taking the number of arrested
persons in the case to 52. Shaikh's images were clearly captured in the
photographs that showed him created a ruckus and participating in the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Six more charged

BYLINE: The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 104 words


Six more suspects in the Stanley Cup riot have been charged, bringing the number
facing charges to 91. The number of riot charges has reached 238.

Charged are: Brandon Foster, 19, of Surrey, charges of participating in a riot,
break-and-enter, and possession of stolen property; Julian Eiers, 19, North
Vancouver, participating in a riot and break-and-enter; Robert Olson, 33,
Vancouver, participating in a riot and break-and-enter; Dakota Schlag, 20,
Vancouver, participating in a riot and mischief; Jeffery Xiao, 20, Richmond,
participating in a riot and break-and-enter; Sage Laboucan, 22, Vancouver,
participating in a riot.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                              June 3, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Cup riot still possible, says expert; Though much has changed the potential
remains real, warns man who investigated 1994 violence

BYLINE: Tracy Sherlock, Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 451  words


A crowd fuelled by anger, alcohol, excitement and adrenalin led to downtown
Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot in 1994. Efforts to quell the riot were hampered by
a lack of planning, poor communication and no central command for emergency
responders --and one expert warns some of those conditions may still exist.

The Canucks lost the seventh game of the Stanley Cup Final to the New York
Rangers by one goal on June 14, 1994, the spark for the riot that erupted on
Robson Street. More than $1.1 million in property damage was caused and two men
were injured; one who fell from bus trolley wires and another who was hit in the
head by a rubber bullet.

Bob Whitelaw, who investigated the 1994 riot on behalf of B.C.'s
Attorney-General and the British Columbia Police Commission, said Vancouver
officials must not be complacent, apathetic or in denial this year.

"My three bigs words are complacency, apathy and denial. Complacency that we've
got everything under control, it won't happen, we're a friendly city; apathy:
we've gone to the Olympics and everything worked well there; and denial: who
among hockey fans are going to create a problem?" Whitelaw said.

Vancouver police Const. Lindsey Houghton said he is "absolutely" confident that
there will be no repeat of 1994.

"That was 17 years ago. The positive atmosphere here in the city that's been
increasing in the last few years culminated with the Olympics. We've seen
nothing but a fun, family-orientated celebration this year," Houghton said.

Earlier this week, Mayor Gregor Robertson said that the city's Stanley Cup
celebrations could cost up to $1 million, but it's money that will go toward
creating two celebration zones with huge TV screens, and extra crowd control and
security to keep everyone safe.

Whitelaw's report found that people had nothing to do and nowhere to go in 1994,
so they started driving up and down Robson Street. This year, there will be
celebration sites with big TV screens on two locations. Nearby communities of
Surrey, Abbotsford and Chilliwack will have their own celebration sites.

In 1994, RCMP from surrounding communities came to Vancouver to help the
Vancouver police department, but the two police forces were not using the same
radio frequency, so they could not communicate, Whitelaw said.

This problem should not be repeated because technology has vastly improved in
the past 17 years.

"Our radio system -- back in 1994 it was very different -- is all digitalized,"
Houghton said. "We now have the ability with the push of a button to talk to any
other police agency in Metro Vancouver within seconds."

In 1994, the mood of the crowd became worse as the night wore on, particularly
after the tear gas was used, Whitelaw said.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Postmedia News; The 1994 Stanley Cup riot in  downtown Vancouver as it
looked at Robson and Thurlow Streets. Bob  Whitelaw, who investigated what
happened, warns that officials must  be prepared for the possibility of another
riot.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

Karnataka govt backed anti-Christian riots: Saldana

BYLINE: Ashutosh Shukla

LENGTH: 194  words


Stating that Justice Somasekhara Commission report on the 2008 Karnataka riots
did not show the "true picture", former High Court judge Michael Saldanha has
blamed the Karnataka government, Bajrang Dal and the VHP for the riots.

In a press meet, Saldanha gave out details on the riots that contradicted the
claims made in the Somasekhara report which gave a clean chit to the state on
the riots and stated that they were the doings of fringe groups.

The conference was attended by Archbishop Oswald Gracias and minorities
commission vice chairman Abraham Mathai.

"According to our findings, the Karnataka government supported the riots and the
police were mute spectators. It seems to be a design of a larger game plan,"
said Saldanha.

Saldanha said two points in the Somasekhara report were "very wrong" and needed
to be expunged.

Saldanha's report claims to have interviewed victims and officials before
drawing conclusions. "We did not have faith in the government findings; so we
started our own investigation. It was surprising that Somasekhara's interim
report criticised the right wing but after the chief minister criticised it,
things were changed," Saldanha said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Teenager denied bail after race riot charge;
Police produce photos of accused

BYLINE: AMY LAWSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 459 words


A TEENAGER accused by police of being one of the main offenders in the Cronulla
riots was refused bail yesterday after turning himself in to police.

Police produced 12 colour photographs as evidence to demonstrate the alleged
involvement of Samuel Murray, 19, in the December 11 riots.

Murray, an air-conditioning mechanic of Bardon Ridge, appeared in Parramatta
Bail Court yesterday, charged with two counts each of riot and affray.

Police prosecutor Sergeant Rebbecca Becroft, in asking that bail be refused,
said the police photographs "clearly depicted" Murray "assaulting a male and
striking him on the head with closed fist".

She said other photos clearly depicted Murray "damaging property by kicking it",
described his actions as "shameful and disgraceful", and said Murray was facing
a "real likelihood" of a long custodial sentence.

Legal Aid solicitor Peter Kristenthal strenuously denied the police case
conceding that, while Murray's acts might have been "shameful and disgraceful",
he was not one of the main offenders and said there were exceptional
circumstances that could overrule new laws, which removed the presumption in
favour of bail on charges relating to rioting.

Mr Kristenthal said Murray received a text message alerting him to the Cronulla
gathering on December 11 and went along "to see what was going to happen", then
"got caught up in the situation".

Mr Kristenthal also told the court that Murray turned himself in and co-operated
with police, had no prior convictions, could comply with strict conditional bail
conditions and post a bail surety of $1000 himself plus $5000 from his family.

Given those circumstances, Mr Kristenthal said the "protection of the community
could be greatly ensured" if Murray was given bail.

Registrar Rosemary Davidson, in refusing bail, said she had taken into account
the defendant's youth and lack of prior convictions but said the defence "had
not provided sufficient reason to rebut the presumption against bail".

Facts presented to the court said Murray was identified by Strike Force
Enoggera, established following the events at Cronulla.

They allege Murray was part of a group of several hundred people who chased a
car containing two Bangladeshi men down Mitchell Road, Cronulla, at 2pm.

Murray was recorded on video and in newspaper photographs kicking the car as it
drove off.

The police facts also allege that Murray was part of a group of men who chased a
Lebanese-Australian man, Safi Merhi, down the street then punched and kicked
him.

Police produced photographs of Murray chasing Mr Merhi and punching him in the
head and others which depicted him punching Mr Merhi while he was surrounded by
the group at the back of a utility.

The matter was adjourned to Sutherland Local Court tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EVIDENCE: Samuel Murray, far left, during the riot (left) and
after his arrest in photographs police tendered in court yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Rahul wants systemic change

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 28 -- But refuses to get drawn into Modi, corruption, inflation
debate

In his first media interview in a decade, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi
on Monday called for transforming the system of governance and blamed the
BJP-led Gujarat Government for the 2002 riots, but avoided specific answers to a
host of uncomfortable questions, including need for an apology or regret for the
1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Rahul's thrust was the empowerment of women and youth, something he kept going
back repeatedly when he was asked to comment on the culpability of Ashok Chavan
in the Adarsh scam or his views on Arvind Kejriwal or a direct debate with BJP's
prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi in the run up to the Lok Sabha polls.

Those who expected Rahul to use the Times Now interview to take an aggressive
posturing against Modi would be disappointed. Rahul did hold the Modi Government
responsible for the Gujarat riots while he defended the role of the Congress
regime in 1984 anti-Sikh pogrom. But he didn't attack Modi beyond this point.

Pointing out that Modi was the CM when the Gujarat riots happened, Rahul said,
"What all I am saying is that in Gujarat the Government of the time aided and
abetted the riots while in 1984 the day of Government did every bit to avoid."

When asked if he agreed with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's view that Modi
presided over the "mass massacre" of innocents on the streets of Ahmedabad,
Rahul said, "What the Prime Minister is saying is the fact. Gujarat happened and
people died."

When asked further on the role of Modi in the riots, Rahul said, "Modi was the
Chief Minister then."

When pressed further on how he could attack Modi on the Gujarat riots when
courts and SIT have given him a clean chit, Rahul said, "It is not me. It is a
large number of people who saw the government of Gujarat being involved in the
riots. I mean, people saw it. I am not the person who saw it. Your colleagues
saw it. Your colleagues told me. They saw the administration actively attacking
the minorities."

To persistent questioning on the role of the Congressmen in the 1984 riots,
Rahul admitted that some Congressmen were probably involved in the 1984 riots
and said legal process was on against them.

However, despite repeated questioning on whether he would express regret or
apology for the 1984 riots, Rahul refused to give specific answers and stuck to
his point that loss of innocent lives are painful and horrific. "I wasn't
involved in the riots at all. It wasn't that I was a part of it," he added at
length.

On asked if he was not named the Congress PM nominee because of fear that his
party will lose the elections, Rahul delved into the past, talked about death of
his grandmother Indira Gandhi and his father Rajiv Gandhi and said he had seen
so much adversity that he had nothing to fear.

"I saw my father combating the system on daily basis. I saw him die. I saw my
grandmother die. There is nothing I fear any more. I've seen the worst," he
said.

To a question as to what was his view on the BJP's prime ministerial candidate,
he said, "I think, we will defeat the BJP in the next elections....I will win
the election. I am reasonably confident."

On asked again about his views on Modi, Rahul said he was not thinking of
anything, but changing the system and unleashing the power of people. "I'm
focussed on that and I am not thinking anything else."

Asked if he would take responsibility if the Congress didn't win the election,
he said, "If we don't win, I am the vice-president of the party. I will take
responsibility."

On naming Modi as PM candidate, he said, "BJP believes in concentration of power
in one person. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe in democracy. I
believe in opening of the system.... We have fundamentally different
philosophies."

On a question about whether he was open to PM's post or avoiding a difficult
contest against Modi, Rahul referred to his AICC speech and said announcing a PM
candidate before an election is "announcing your PM without asking your MPs. It
is not actually written in the Constitution. We don't believe in breaking the
tradition and system."

He also avoided direct reply to questions on whether political parties should be
brought under the purview of RTI, saying Parliament should decide on it if
political parties are unanimous on this. "My position is that the more openness,
the better."

Throughout the interview, Rahul devoted much of the time talking about how the
present system was a burden on the people, how people suffered because of it,
how there was pressing need to empower women and youth, and how democracy must
be more representative.

Even when confronted with questions why no action was taken against Ashok Chavan
and Himachal CM Virbhdra Singh despite serious corruption charges against them,
Rahul against talked about putting in place a system which did not allow any
corrupt person to get off scot free. However, he avoided specific answer on why
his words and action did not match in these cases.

Rahul avoided any direct reply to what he thought of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind
Kejriwal, but acknowledged that the AAP had shown how to reach out to people.

On a question, Rahul said he was against the concept of dynasty in politics but
felt that dynasty cannot be wished away in a closed system. "I am absolutely
against the concept of dynasty. Anybody who knows me knows that and understands
that. But you are not going to wish away dynasty in a closed system. You have to
open the system," he said.

The Congress V-P said dynasty or children of politicians becoming powerful
happens in the BJP, the DMK, the SP and the Congress. "It happens everywhere,"
he said. Asked how Congress was then different, he said, "You have to go into
why this is happening.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 16, 2002

Anniversary of reading Riot Act;
 Latimer's Diary

SECTION: Features :General :Columnist, Pg.11

LENGTH: 278 words


WORD has reached me of a rather apt commemoration of the Bristol riots of 1831.

The 171st anniversary of the riots are apparently to be marked by a "memorial
pub crawl".

Being a model of temperance - I only imbibe the odd sip for medicinal purposes -
I don't know who is behind the event, which will be preceded by the reading of
descriptions of key events during the riots.

This is taking place at 8.30pm on October 26 at the Hanging Gate of the New Gaol
in Cumberland Road.

Five rioters were hanged from the gate of the prison, which was stormed during
the riots.

A memorial pub crawl does seem an apt way to mark the riots of October 1831.

Very few uprisings have probably been fuelled by overindulgence in fine wines,
ports and sherries, but the drinks' role in the Bristol riots is not in
question.

It was the year of the great electoral reform bill and Charles Wetherall, the
Bristol Recorder and anti-reformist, was staying at the Lord Mayor's mansion in
Queen Square.

This prompted a crowd of reformers to gather, panicking the Lord Mayor, who read
the Riot Act. Inflamed, the crowd became a violent mob and the riot spread.

At one point, the mob broke into the Mansion House's cellars and "sampled" its
fine wines and sherries before beginning a systematic plunder of the square,
removing huge quantities of wines from the merchants' cellars.

The following morning the Bristol Journal reported that "in various parts lay
several of the rioters, in the last stages of senseless intoxication and with
countenances more resembling fiends than men".

Not a riot, more like Saturday night in Bristol city centre I'd say.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              497 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Sentence for inmate in prison riot reduced in return for aiding authorities

BYLINE: Lindsey Shelton, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 662 words


Nov. 20--NATCHEZ -- The first inmate charged in the May 20 prison riot that left
one man dead will serve 40 months in prison and pay $1.3 million in restitution.

Federal Judge David Bramlette handed down the sentence to Juan Lopez-Fuentes
Monday.

Bramlette granted a written motion from the U.S. government requesting the
sentence be reduced because of the "substantial assistance" Lopez-Fuentes has
given the FBI in the case.

Bramlette said Lopez-Fuentes has helped the FBI identify more than 30 inmates
who participated in the riot at the Adams County Correctional Facility.

Speaking through a translator, Lopez-Fuentes apologized for his role in the riot
. He said he would like to continue helping the FBI in their investigation of
other inmates involved in the riot who assaulted prison guards.

Before the sentencing Lopez-Fuentes' lawyer, Matt Tyrone, asked the court to be
considerate of his client's cooperation with the government, as well as his
admission of participating in the riot before he was criminally charged.

Tyrone also said Lopez-Fuentes had no previous violent crime charges and was not
involved in assaulting prison guards during the riot.

Lopez-Fuentes' prison time will be followed by three years of supervised
release. At that point, he will be turned over to immigration officers.
Lopez-Fuentes must not reenter the country without written permission from the
director of homeland security.

The restitution is the amount of estimated damage that occurred at the facility
during the riot and will be paid in conjunction with any other inmates convicted
in the riot case. The payment schedule set by Bramlette requires Lopez-Fuentes
make a $20 minimum payment monthly after he is released from prison.

Lopez-Fuentes pleaded guilty in late August to taking part in the riot. At least
two other inmates, Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano and Pedro De Los Reyes, have
been charged in connection with the incident.

According to earlier court filings, the riot started during a mass movement when
the alleged leadership of a group of Mexican nationals known as Paisas -- it
means "countrymen" -- told the members of the group to disobey orders from
prison officials until a list of demands could be presented to the prison's
administration. The filing states the inmates were disgruntled about the food,
medical service and "disrespectful staff members" at the prison.

When prison officials tried to contain the disobedience, it erupted into a
full-scale riot that lasted from approximately 2 to 9 p.m. May 20, eventually
contained by the prison's special response team and the Mississippi Highway
Patrol's SWAT team.

During the riot, inmates destroyed prison facilities, raided food and commissary
services, took correctional officers hostage and used ladders and stacked food
service carts to climb onto the roof of prison buildings and assault guards
there, including Catlin Carithers, 24, who later died from injuries he received
in the assault.

The court filings indicated Lopez-Fuentes had been identified as one of the
inmates who was present in an area where correctional officers were being held
hostage.

"Lopez-Fuentes would quiet the crowd of rioting inmates and then give
(correctional officers) orders to relay to (authorities)," the filing states,
orders that included for responders to drop their weapons or hostages would be
harmed.

The filing also states that Lopez-Fuentes acknowledged to being part of the riot
, and stole items from the commissary, broke windows in a housing unit and was
in possession of a staff member's radio.

Serrano-Bejarano has pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. Reyes has
not yet been arraigned.

A federal immigration prison, Adams County Correctional Center houses
approximately 2,500 inmates and is operated by Corrections Corporation of
America.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121120-YY-Sentence-for-inmate-in-prison-riot
-reduced-in-return-for-aiding-authorities-1120-20121120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat

                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Reply: Response: We're not just a sounding board. We have a unique remit on the
riots: All three main parties have asked us to recommend ways to avoid any
future disorder, says Darra Singh

BYLINE: Darra Singh

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 509 words


After being interviewed by Alison Benjamin, I was disappointed that the full
remit of the independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, which I chair, was
not represented in her article (Will the riots panel change policy?, Society, 26
October).

On attending our public meeting in Croydon, south London, Benjamin observed: "It
was clearly a cathartic 90 minutes for many participants, which is no bad thing.
But it is doubtful it will have any impact on policy." We agree that talking
about people's experiences of the riots is cathartic; however, the panel is
simply not "just a sounding board" as she states. We are working to identify the
underlying causes and consider the response, which might have led to the riots
escalating in the way they did. Many organisations are doing their own, valuable
investigations into the causes of the riots. We are keen to learn from these
too.

Ultimately, the point of the riots panel is to understand and make clear
recommendations on how this country might avoid disturbances on the terrible
scale seen in August happening again. Naturally we'll spend the first phase of
our work listening. How else will we accurately reflect the views of the people
affected?

It's unfortunate that Benjamin doesn't reflect on the opportunity the riots
panel is offering for victims, often from marginalised groups and communities,
to make a real contribution to the final report we will present to government
next March.

In asking whether criticisms voiced to the panel will make any difference,
Benjamin could put off those affected by the riots from contributing. And she
says we should "come clean about (our) inability to affect change". The fact is,
we want to hear all views on the riots, and we'll report them without fear or
favour. Our grassroots approach is seeking to empower individuals and
communities to shape our recommendations. We are independent of government and
won't shy away from making policy recommendations where there is compelling
evidence to support them.

One of the main groups we're speaking to is young people. Benjamin says "there
were no young people at the Croydon meeting" she attended. Realistically, we
don't expect all young people to feel comfortable getting up and speaking at the
public meetings - despite some very articulate teenagers and young people doing
so at our recent meeting in Ealing. So we met with around 50 young people from
Croydon college the day before the meeting she attended to discover why they
thought the riots happened. We have several further similar meetings planned.

Ours is the only panel to have been directly asked by the prime minister, the
deputy prime minister and the leader of the opposition to explore the
motivations for the riots. Only we have cross-party support. The riots were very
serious disturbances with some tragic consequences, and government recognises
the need to learn lessons. Any recommendations we make will therefore need to be
taken seriously.

Darra Singh is chair of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel

riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Police recommend charges against 20 more in riots

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: Vancouver


Vancouver police are recommending charges against 20 more people they believe
broke the law in the riots that followed last summer's Stanley Cup playoff
final.

Investigators say they are continuing to use the extensive video footage of the
game's aftermath to track down those they allege committed criminal acts the
night of the Stanley Cup riot.

The 20 new names bring the number of suspected rioters to 100. Vancouver police
Insp. Les Yeo said the Integrated Riot Investigation Team recommended 63
criminal charges against the latest group of 20. So far, 30 people have been
charged - with a total of 78 criminal offences - and the Crown has said it
expects to approve charges against 30 others by the end of the month.

"We've reached a milestone for our team," Yeo SAID. "The first 100, and as we
said all along, we are not going to give up."

In the case of the first batch of people charged, Yeo said police are seeing the
same faces pop up on video at different locations during the June 15 riot.

So far, Yeo said 82 per cent of riot suspects are from outside Vancouver.

Vancouver police will be adding "hundreds more" pictures of riot suspects to the
department's website.

Police believe a 15yearold is responsible for hitting a police cruiser with a
metal fence. They say he helped flip over another vehicle and then stole some
property from the trunk; he has no criminal record and could face mischief,
theft and riot charges.

Meanwhile, the first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, was in
court Tuesday with his lawyer, who plans to argue against having Dickinson's
sentencing hearing broadcast on television. The provincial government wants all
riot-related cases televised, but that has yet to be approved.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Political riots deadlier than communal ones: NCRB

BYLINE: Deeptiman Tiwary

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 334 words


NEW DELHI: More people get injured or killed in political riots than in communal
conflagration. According to latest data released by National Crime Records
Bureau (NCRB), in 2014, there were over 2,400 victims of political violence,
while 2000 people were injured or killed in communal riots.

According to the data, most communal incidents were reported from Jharkhand
(349) followed by Haryana (201). West Bengal and Tamil Nadu had over 100
incidents each while Maharashtra recorded 99 cases.

UP, which witnessed one of the worst communal riots in 2013, recorded only 51
cases last year but had maximum number of victims at 356. Maharashtra followed
UP closely with 355 victims followed by Jharkhand with 349 victims.

Caste clashes were the third biggest reason for conflicts with over 1,800 people
either getting injured or killed in riots on caste lines. Curiously, however,
conflicts of Dalits and tribals with upper caste resulted in far lesser injuries
and deaths as compared to other inter-caste conflicts.

According to the data, 507 people became victims of riots caused by clashes
between people belonging to scheduled castes and tribes and those not from the
category. On the other hand, 1,346 people became victims of other caste
conflicts.

Most conflicts between Dalits and non-Dalits were reported from Maharashtra with
147 riots and 183 victims. It was followed by UP with 66 cases and 101 victims.
Bihar, curiously, recorded no such cases.

Maharashtra again led the pack with 241 cases in other caste conflicts category
followed by Tamil Nadu with 182 such cases. UP and Bihar had just nine and six
such cases respectively.

In the category of all riots (including all categories), Bihar led the pack with
13,566 incidents and 16,810 victims despite recording very few communal and
political riots or even caste conflicts.

The year also saw 170 industrial riots with 283 victims and 628 agrarian
agitations that ended up in riots and injured or killed 1,319 victims.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              501 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

A strange fire

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 1458  words


Why the Muzaffarnagar riots were a departure from past trends.

In several respects, the recent communal violence in Muzaffarnagar had the
classic features of a riot. The immediate cause appeared to be the stalking or
harassment of a "girl" by young men of another community, a common trope in
riots. There is a dispute about whether this harassment, or a motorbike
collision between individuals of two different communities, led to the killings.
Contesting narratives of this sort are also a recurrent feature of riots.
Finally, it is said, local politicians made provocative speeches, and loud music
blared in front of a mosque at the time of prayer. Music before mosques (or cow
slaughter) and inflammatory speeches by political or religious leaders, too, are
routinely associated with riots.

But, fundamentally, the Muzaffarnagar riots departed from our existing script of
understanding. Over the last 15 to 20 years, ethnic conflict in different parts
of the world, including India, has been studied extensively. We know a lot, but
no theory could have confidently predicted the Muzaffarnagar riots. We should,
of course, note that predictive accuracy is not a good way to judge social
science theories. As in biology, social science theories tend to be
probabilistic, indicating the odds, not proposing certainties.  Just as not
everybody who smokes cigarettes would get cancer, though a lot would, social
science theories are better at explaining central tendencies, not departures
from them. We just can't get the precision of physics.

Nonetheless, we need to understand why the Muzaffarnagar riots were unusual and
examine their larger implications. Why were these riots surprising?

First, the Muzaffarnagar riots were mostly rural. While civil wars tend to be
rural, riots are primarily urban. Why this is so is aptly summarised by a
modern-day classic, The Logic of Violence in Civil War, by Stathis Kalyvas. In
civil wars, the insurgents generally attack the sovereignty of the state. They
need to hide from the might of the state to attack it well; villages, mountains
and forests provide better hideouts for planning and protection than cities. In
comparison, rioters attack communities, not the sovereignty of the state.
Rioters are armed with lesser weapons, and houses in urban bylanes are a good
enough cover.

Second, prejudice of various sorts might be widely prevalent in Indian villages,
but the countryside tends to have caste violence, not Hindu-Muslim riots. And
when they do take place, rural riots tend to be small. In the period, 1950-1995,
for which Steven Wilkinson and I constructed a dataset, rural deaths accounted
for a mere 4-8 per cent of the total deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots
(goo.gl/c1MkvZ). Killing anywhere between 40-50 people, if not more, the
Muzaffarnagar riots were big. India has had big rural riots before - in
Bhagalpur (1989), Gujarat (2002) and a few in the Northeast. But these were
exceptions to the larger reality of urban riots.  The Muzaffarnagar riots belong
to this exceptional category.

Third, riots also affected the city of Muzaffarnagar. Hindu-Muslim relations in
Muzaffarnagar town have historically been calm. For communal violence, Aligarh
and Meerut were the two worst cities in western Uttar Pradesh during 1950-95.
But as I demonstrated in my book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and
Muslims in India, neighbouring towns often continue to maintain their divergent
characteristics. Next to the riot-prone Aligarh is the peaceful Bulandshahr;
adjacent to Meerut are Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar, both customarily tranquil.
The Muzaffarnagar riots departed from the historical trend.

Fourth, while my own book was about urban, not rural, riots, there is a major
argument in the field, by Wilkinson, which applies to rural settings as well. In
Votes and Violence, Wilkinson argues that communal riots are unlikely to break
out in a state where the government is heavily based on minority support. To
keep the minority vote intact, the government would use its might to stop or
contain riots.   The Samajwadi Party runs UP's government; it depends heavily on
Muslim support, yet riots took place, killing a large number of Muslims. One big
exception, of course, does not invalidate a probabilistic theory, but it should
be noted that ever since the SP government came to power, small riots have been
occurring in UP with considerable regularity. A minority-dependent government
seems unwilling, or unable, to stop them.

Finally, another piece of scholarly wisdom is partly breached. At higher levels
of income, riots decline in frequency and intensity. France did have riots in
2005, and the US in the 1960s and again in 1992 in Los Angeles, but such rioting
is episodic. In contrast, riots can be endemic at low levels of income. At
higher levels of income, communal or racial prejudice may continue, but
resentments, when violent, take the form of terror or hate crimes (which are
individual acts of violence), not riots. As the Indian economy grew at high
rates over the last decade and as big riots also disappeared after Gujarat 2002,
India seemed to follow the larger comparative script.

One big riot, again, does not undermine the larger income-based argument, but
why did Muzaffarnagar burn? Might that happen again?

Press reports are normally the first drafts of history. These drafts suggest a
hypothesis - and that is all we have at present. As national elections come
closer, political parties might have, yet again, begun to think of riots as an
attempt to create winning coalitions. During the late 1980s through 2002,
communal polarisation was used to enlarge political constituencies. Is such
polarisation under way in UP today? Is it of any use, especially to the SP and
BJP?

The Muslim vote has always been central to the SP's electoral performance. Press
analysis suggests that the SP's strategy is to allow riots to take place and
then present itself as a saviour of Muslims. If true, this diabolical chessboard
strategy can go horribly wrong on the ground. Once riots begin, they don't
necessarily stay small. If too many Muslim lives are lost, insecure Muslims are
unlikely to view the SP as a protective shield against larger threats. They can
easily desert the SP, blaming it for administrative failures, even malevolent
intentionality. A large proportion of UP Muslims, after all, left the Congress
in the late 1980s, when it could not stop riots.

What about the BJP? We know that UP is critical to the national ambitions of the
BJP. The BJP under Modi would like to go from 116 seats (2009) to 180-190 (in
2014). Otherwise, it can't attract post-election allies and form the government.
Without a tripling or quadrupling of BJP seats in UP, such an increase is
virtually inconceivable.

With only 10 out of 80 seats, the BJP finished fourth in UP in 2009, but both in
1996 and 1998, it had more than 50 seats. The 50-plus performance was due -
considerably if not wholly - to a communal polarisation of the electorate that
the Ayodhya movement had made possible.

With or without Ayodhya, is that the BJP strategy in UP again?  Amit Shah's
appointment has led to widespread speculation that that is indeed the case. But
it is hard to believe that while economic growth and governance will constitute
Modi's election campaign for India, there will be a reversion to the 1980s and
1990s in UP (and/ or Bihar). This is not a paradox but a flat contradiction.
Communal polarisation will almost certainly be accompanied by violence; riding
the communal tiger never allows full control over the dangerous beast. While the
BJP may attract many Hindu votes in UP this way, it will also lose a substantial
number of those attracted to Modi for non-communal, governance reasons, both in
UP and beyond. The net seat gain may well turn out to be small, while the ghosts
of Gujarat 2002 will return to haunt Modi's future even more vigorously.

It is best to hope that as he wishes to scale national heights, Modi will not
take a gamble of this magnitude. At present, one should believe that, if true,
the BJP's involvement in Muzaffarnagar was orchestrated not by the party
principals at the top, but by their local agents. If this hypothesis is wrong,
India may well be poised for a reversal of the decade-long communal peace.
Self-defeating politics can, of course, prove all theories wrong, but it would
be facile to assume that, given its desire for power, the BJP will devise a
strategy that is likely to lead to defeat again.

The writer is Sol Goldman Professor of International Studies and the Social
Sciences at Brown University, where he also directs the India Initiative at the
Watson Institute. He is a contributing editor for 'The Indian Express'
express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              502 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday

The Guardian's Paul Lewis wins European press prize

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 352 words

ABSTRACT

Judges impressed by reporter's unique Reading the Riots project

FULL TEXT

Paul Lewis, The Guardian's special projects editor, has won the
innovation-of-the-year category of the European Press Prize for Reading the
Riots.

His year-long research project into the causes of the 2011 summer riots, which
was run jointly with Professor Tim Newburn of the London School of Economics,
was commended by the judges for its new approach to reporting. It combined
investigative journalism with scientific methodology.

Lewis analysed the mechanisms that led to the violence and to its rapid spread
from London to other major towns and cities in Britain. It seriously questioned
many assumptions about the riots, from the role of social media to the
involvement of criminal gangs.

Lewis commented: "Needless to say, there is no other news organisation in the UK
- or the world, probably - that would give its journalists the freedom to create
an innovation like Reading the Riots."

The news reporting award went to three reporters from the Danish daily Jyllands
Posten - Orla Borg, Carsten Ellegaard Christensen and Morten Pihl - for their
investigation on the role of Morten Storm, an ex-Danish secret serviceman who
helped the CIA locate an Al-Qaida leader.

Judges gave the commentator award to Nikos Chrysoloras, the Brussels
correspondent for the Greek daily Kathimerini, for his article "Why Greece must
remain in the Eurozone", which was published in papers across Europe.

And the editing award went to Ihor Pochynok, chief editor of Express a daily
newspaper published in Lviv in the Ukraine. Judges said the paper was a prime
example of a local newspaper becoming the opinion leader of its region and
assuming at times a national role.

On the judging panel, chaired by former Sunday Times editor Harry Evans, were
Sylvie Kaufmann, editorial director of the France's Le Monde; Jørgen Ejbøl, vice
chairman of the Jyllands-Posten Foundation; Paolo Flores d'Arcais, one of the
most influential philosophers and writers in Italy; and Yevgenia Albats, editor
in chief and CEO of the Moscow-based political weekly The New Times.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              503 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday

Iran MP urges trial of "main leaders" of post-poll unrest

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report headlined "Karami-Rad, member of Majlis National Security and
Foreign Policy Committee: They have not yet approached the main leaders of the
recent unrests" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat on 8 August

A board member of the National Security and Foreign Policy Committee of the
Majlis [Karami-Rad] emphasized that the culprits of the post-election riots are
only secondary leaders of the unrest. There has been no action against the main
leaders of the riots and post-election events.

Speaking with Fars news agency, Kermanshah MP Mohammad Karami-Rad pointed to the
confession of [former vice-president Mohammad Ali] Abtahi, [reformist activist
Mohammad] Atrianfar, and other leaders of the riots and their trial sessions in
the next week. He said: The confessions of the [main] leaders of the riots and
the post-election events have not been published and the confessions of Abtahi
and Atrianfar were only a small part of the actions of the defeated movement to
damage the Islamic system.

Karami-Rad expressed the hope that the leaders of the riots will be arrested and
tried. He added: The confessions of the leaders of the post-election riots will
be important to illuminate the public in and out of the country. After the
confessions [of main leaders], the hidden aspects of this defeated movement to
implement a velvet revolution and organize the riots will be clear to everyone.

Source: Resalat newspaper, Tehran in Persian 08 Aug 09, p 2

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              504 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                     April 21, 2001 Saturday, ALL EDITIONS

Jail has anti-riot safeguards;
 Disturbance in 1997 taught officials a lesson

BYLINE: George B. Griffin; TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 912 words



An Easter Sunday riot by inmates at the Dartmouth House of Correction has
focused attention, and criticism, on the get-tough'' management style of Bristol
County Sheriff Thomas M. Hodgson.

Inmates, as well as the labor union representing jail guards there, have put
part of the blame for the riot on Sheriff Hodgson's policies.

Sheriff Hodgson has instituted several controversial policies, including
bringing back chain gangs and imposing stringent curbs on inmate privileges.

The sheriff has repeatedly defended his policies, saying they are intended to
force home the point that prison is not a place to return to once an inmate has
left.

Inmates and guards, in published accounts, have given conflicting stories of the
causes of the riot. About 300 inmates rampaged through the jail, setting fires,
smashing windows, flooding toilets and assaulting guards.

By contrast, there has not been a large-scale inmate disturbance at the
Worcester County Jail and House of Correction in West Boylston since April 1,
1997, when a gang-inspired riot involving about 80 people caused $250,000 in
damage.

At the time, jail officials blamed the riot on feuding rival gangs and crowding
at the jail. At the time of that riot, there were 1,179 inmates crowded into a
jail designed to hold a maximum of 778. In addition, the county jail housed
high-risk state inmates.

Worcester County Sheriff John M.  Mike'' Flynn said yesterday that many of the
conditions that lead to such disturbances have been eliminated. He noted, for
instance, that state prison inmates are no longer incarcerated at the county
jail.

In addition, Sheriff Flynn said, the most violent felons are segregated from the
general population and kept under lockdown 23 out of 24 hours.

I think it's important for people to know that I am to the right of Attila the
Hun on these people who come in here for murder, rape, organized crime, gangs
and career criminals,'' he said.  I don't want people to think I'm soft on
crime.''

But the majority of inmates at the jail, he said, are not violent felons, but
rather men who are incarcerated there an average of three to 10 months.

What that means is that they're going to be back in the community,'' Sheriff
Flynn said.  ... We want to try to see to it that they are better when they
leave than they were when they came in.''

To that end, Sheriff Flynn said he has instituted a number of policies, and
eschewed others, in an effort to focus on inmate rehabilitation.

One thing the sheriff won't do, he said, is institute chain gangs.

I wouldn't even think about it,'' he said.  ... I would not put out anybody on
the street that we would consider a danger to the public.''

The jail does send out inmate work crews regularly to work on public service
projects. The inmates assigned to those details, he said, are accompanied by
correction officers, who oversee their work and assure their compliance with
jail rules.

The inmates work on schools, public buildings and public grounds throughout
Worcester County. They must earn the privilege by engaging in jail educational,
health and counseling programs geared toward teaching them the skills they need
to succeed once their sentences are served.

Only inmates who have been incarcerated for nonviolent offenses are eligible for
consideration, Sheriff Flynn said.

In the past 14 years, the jail has created education and health programs for
inmates who are infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, as well as for
those who are addicted to drugs or alcohol.

Counselors have been hired to conduct seminars and training for men who have
been convicted of domestic violence crimes, or who have violated protective
orders.

We have a relapse prevention program for the chemically dependent criminal
personality,'' the sheriff said. This category of inmate is someone who engaged
in criminal activity and is addicted to drugs, as opposed to someone who commits
crimes only to support a drug habit.

The jail also offers life skills classes and counseling in stress management,
coping and parenting.

Alcohol-related programs include regular Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and
classes for inmates convicted of driving under the influence of drugs or
alcohol.

Many inmates, Sheriff Flynn said, have few skills and little formal education.
Because of that, their opportunities for success outside a life of crime are
limited.

In an effort to reduce recidivism, the jail also offers a Spanish relapse
program'' and English language classes for those inmates who speak only Spanish,
and regular school course work for inmates who need to earn a GED.

The jail also offers limited technical training, so that inmates can learn
marketable skills they can use to find a job once their jail terms ends.

Such programs, he said, have a benefit to the community in helping inmates
succeed on the outside.

It costs $30,000 a year to keep a guy locked up, and we're way overcrowded
still,'' Sheriff Flynn said.  We've got to do something to turn the drug and
alcohol situation around.''

But the problems of crime and recidivism cannot be solved by jail programs
alone, he said. It will take the combined efforts of religious organizations,
schools and social service agencies to begin to reduce the number of people sent
to jail.

Every one of us- from the church, the family, community services, prisoners, the
sheriffs- we've all got to pull together,'' the sheriff said.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; T&G Staff/MARK C. IDE ; Inmates from the Worcester County Jail
and House of Correction in West Boylston work on East Mountain Street in
Worcester yesterday. They are, from left, Todd Scioli, David Patterson, William
Stanley, David Hong, Victor Cubi and Hiram Alvarado.

               Copyright 2001 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.

                              505 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 6, 2012 Tuesday

Putting on the mask

BYLINE: John Hunter

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: North Vancouver


Elizabeth Renzetti says the new federal ban on masks while participating in a
riot goes too far (Let's Face It: Ottawa's New Mask Ban Goes Too Far - Nov. 3).
I disagree. Even if only two people wore masks during the Vancouver riots,
common sense says, next time, absent a clear law, more rioters will wear masks.

As for her scenarios of innocents being charged under this law, all evaporate
provided you don't participate in a riot, you don't wear a mask when you riot,
and you unmask or leave the scene if a lawful protest turns ugly. Ms. Renzetti's
fears are far overblown compared with the damage caused in riots.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              506 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cup riot investigation cost $2 million: police

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Investigating the June 2011 hockey riot has cost Vancouver police $2 million in
overtime and other additional costs.

And the police department, which has dedicated between 50 and 70 officers and
staff from other departments to its riot squad since last June 15, said it spent
another $5 million, mostly on base salaries, on what it called the largest
investigation of its kind in Canadian history.

But those were costs the Vancouver police would have spent anyway, said the head
of the riot squad, Insp. Les Yeo, in the first public accounting of the costs of
policing the riot.

Other area police forces spent $2 million on staff salaries for those who worked
on the investigation, again from their regular budgets, he said.

"The amount we spent that we wouldn't have spent if there was no riot was $2
million," said Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu after the monthly police board
meeting on Wednesday.

Police have recovered about $1 million from the provincial government, he said.

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson, who is on the police board, said he hoped to
recover the remaining $1 million from the province.

Both he and the police noted that 85 per cent of the arrests for rioting and
other criminal acts that night involved people who didn't live in the city of
Vancouver.

Yeo estimated the damage amounted to $3 million in the riot after the Vancouver
Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals to the Boston Bruins. There was
damage to 89 businesses and 113 vehicles, a third of which were police vehicles,
said Yeo.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved

                              507 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Odessa American (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Riot continues: Standoff enters second day at Reeves County Detention Center

BYLINE: Odessa American, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


Feb. 2--A riot that began Saturday at the Reeves County Detention Center
continued into Sunday evening, according to a DPS spokesperson.

"The prison standoff out in Reeves County continues, and that's all the
information I have." DPS spokeswoman Tela Mange said Sunday afternoon in a
telephone recording for media inquiries about the riot.

Officials at the Reeves County Sheriff's Office refused to comment further on
the riot as of 6 p.m. Sunday.

Jon Fulbright, a reporter with the Pecos Enterprise who was at the jail Sunday
evening, however, said the inmates who led the riot were negotiating with
detention center officials in the facility's administration building. The
inmates seem to be demanding better medical treatment.

"As far as I know, nobody said anything about hostages right now," Fulbright
said.

Also, he said most of the law enforcement personnel brought to the prison for
additional support had left the jail by Sunday evening. He also noted that there
was "minimal perimeter security, compared to last night."

Fulbright said additional medical personnel were summoned, which indicates
injuries may have occurred during the uprising.

"They're expecting everything to be finished up by tonight," he said. "Whether
it is or not, we'll have to check back."

The Pecos Enterprise contributed to this report.

To see more of the Odessa American, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.oaoa.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Odessa American, Texas Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090202-OD-Riot-continues-0202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OD


                         Copyright 2009 Odessa American

                              508 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Law, order issue rocks Assembly

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Feb. 25 -- The law and order issue rocked the state assembly on Monday
when BSP and BJP members cornered state government over number of riots that
rocked Uttar Pradesh since this Samajwadi Party Government came to power leading
to adjournment of the House for 15 minutes.

Members of BSP and BJP entered the well of the House separately raising slogans
against the Government seeking Government reply on rehabilitation of the
Muzaffarnagar riot victims. Anugrah Narain Singh (Congress) raised the matter
during Question Hour and asked as how many riots took place in state since 2009.
Replying to the question Parliamentary Affairs Minister Md Azam Khan said only
four communal riots took place from April 2012 to February 14, 2014 in which 73
people were killed and 155 others were injured.

He said Government did its best to provide relief to the victims who have been
displaced. This answer opened a Pandora's box as Satish Mahana (BJP) said that
earlier government had informed the House that 27 riots had taken place while
now it is saying that just four riots had taken place. "It seems officials are
taking Government for a ride. The Government should clarify as which figure is
correct," Mahan asked.

Leader of the Opposition Swami Prasad Maurya also asked the government to
clearify its stand. The Government of India says 103 riots had taken place while
IB says 115 communal skirmishes have taken place. "It is pathetic that even
after several months people are living like refugees in the camps. The riots
were orchestrated by Samajwadi Party to derive a political mileage out of it,"
he said.

Before Government could say anything he trooped into the well of the House
alongwith other BSP members. They raised anti-government slogans. Amid that din
Parliamentary affairs minister said that many of the BSP leaders were also
involved in the riots and NSA was invoked against them. On the persuasion of
Speaker BSP members returned to their seats. But Azam Khan's allegation that BSP
men were involved in Muzaffarnagar riots and NSA was also invoked against them
incited BJP members.

"The Parliamentary affairs minister is saying that the Congress and BSP members
were involved in the riot and Goernment had invoked NSA against them. We want to
know who are the people against whom NSA is invoked and what action government
has taken against them," BJP Legislature party Leader Hukum Singh said. The BJP
now entered the Well of the House forcing Speaker to first adjourn the House fo
10 minutes and then extend it for 5 more minutes.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              509 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 State Edition

No control and poor equipment - Police race riot report

BYLINE: SIMON BENSON, KARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 386  words


AN INTERNAL police report into the Cronulla race riots has criticised senior
police management and the lack of equipment given to front-line officers to deal
with rioters.

It is the second time the poor supply of equipment has been highlighted in a
riot report, with a similar criticism made of the response to the Redfern riots
almost two years before.

Senior police sources have also told The Daily Telegraph a ''breakdown'' in
communication in intercepting a convoy of Middle Eastern youths on the night
after the December 11, 2005, riots helped fuel the violent revenge attacks.

Police Minister Carl Scully -- who has been accused of sitting on the report --
last night confirmed a draft had been handed to him and that it put senior
police and equipment issues ''under the microscope''.

He would not comment further until he had read the entire report.

However, it has now also been revealed police botched the internal review into
the riots.

The much anticipated report into the riots, which was due in August, has been
rejected by Police Commissioner Ken Moroney because senior operational police
had not been interviewed.

Mr Moroney -- who has been on a study tour for three weeks -- sent it back to
former assistant commissioner in charge of the review Norm Hazzard before
heading overseas.

''I am not satisfied that the report process has been finalised,'' Mr Moroney
said in a statement last night.

''I've asked the report's author to conduct further consultation with senior
commanders.''

Mr Scully said he would discuss the report with Mr Moroney on his return on
Monday. The report would then be officially released.

The Daily Telegraph understands the report is not likely to be as critical of
the police response to the Cronulla riots as the response to the Redfern or
Macquarie Fields riots.

However, the possibility that more police could have been put on the ground
earlier on the day of the riots is likely to be raised.

The failure of police to shut down bottle shops in the area while
alcohol-fuelled violence got out of control is likely to come under criticism.

Also to come in for some criticism is the police command's handling of the
following night's retribution attacks in Maroubra and Brighton-le-Sands.

Claims of political interference and confusion over who was in command is also
likely to be raised.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              510 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

'Pursue 1992-93 riots cases with same zeal'

BYLINE: Mateen.Hafeez@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 402 words


A day before the Supreme Court will take a final call on the mercy petition of
1993 serial blasts convict Yaqub Memon, campaigners, who have been following the
city's worst sectarian riots cases for more than 20 years, lambasted the
government saying that it should show similar interest in punishing the riot
accused.

Disturbances and violence in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid
had left close to 275 Hindus and 575 Muslims dead in the financial capital.

The Supreme Court asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act and
after which a special task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Justice B N Srikrishna report on the riots. Jyoti Punwani, who followed and

wrote about the riots extensively, stated: "1,358 riot cases were closed and
classified as 'A summary' (true but not detected). The Srikrishna panel found
that the police made no effort to detect the offence, even when the accused had
been named by the complainants. Justice Srikrishna recommended the 1,358 closed
cases be

probed again. The task force re-opened only five cases...amounting to not even
one per cent of the cases closed! These too ended in acquittal, thanks to a
half-hearted prosecution."

Activist Fareed Batatawala, an intervener in the Supreme Court in the riots
cases, said,"We don't want our children to be labelled

and live as children or rioters. A special investigation team was formed on my
petition. However, justice has been delayed. While the police arrested former MP
Madhukar Sarpotdar, other politicians were never taken in custody and the Mumbai
police are responsible for it.

The authorities had shown no interest in these

cases. "If the Mumbai police's guilty personnel been punished, then the Gujarat
riots would not have occurred. The Gujarat police dared knowing nothing happens
to cops in such cases," he added. "You are preparing to hang Memon, what about
the riot perpetrators?" he asked.

Shaikh Sajid, an activist from Jogeshwari, opined that the government should
take riots cases to their logical conclusion.

"When the Radhabai chawl in Jogeshwari was set on fire, 13 people were killed.We
fought for the accused.We protected the Hindu families and with the help of
other NGOs we rehabilitated them. The state has shown no interest in remedy of
such riots and spreading communal harmony . Unless you punish the riot accused,
you cannot win the trust of victims," said Sajid.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              511 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Will Boris Johnson's water cannon blast Theresa May out of the water?

BYLINE: Richard Seymourtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 935 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Seymour: The London mayor is trying to win back the authoritarian Tory
right from Theresa May. Can a few cannons do the trick?

FULL TEXT

It's that time when Tory leadership contenders start making audacious moves to
secure their position in the party. Michael Gove has his Trojan horse
shenanigans, Theresa May has her battle with Gove, and Boris Johnson has water
cannon.

There is much riding on these wars. Johnson, an incomparable media operator,
would appear to be the natural candidate to take control of the Conservative
party. He is an instinctive Thatcherite who nonetheless knows how to communicate
well beyond the right, and who rebuts hostile questioning by making interviewers
melt into giggles. He has demonstrated in London that he can expand the Tory
base and preserve it.

Yet recent polls of Tory members find him lagging well behind May. The expedited
purchase of water cannon for the Metropolitan police, before the home secretary
has ruled on whether they can be used, is clearly Johnson's answer.

The use of water cannon by British police was first broached during the 2011
riots, a magical time when practically any authoritarian solution was alighted
on with relish by the great majority of the British public. Even while the
courts threw out the sentencing rule book, evidently under instruction to jail
anyone remotely connected with the riots, Twitter was ablaze with exhortations
to send them back, lock them up, cut their benefits, shoot them with live
bullets, send them to Afghanistan, and so on. In the light of this
spittle-lathered lunacy, any opportunist who wanted to bring in water cannon
could have managed to sound quite moderate.

As long as the narrative about the riots is that they were caused by "greed and
gangs", the "commonsense" response was more, and better, repression. Riots don't
work this way. The most detailed study of the riots predictably confirmed that
these riots were to a large extent protests against police injustice. The line
between crime and political protest is, as student demonstrators know well
enough, artificial.

Even if riots did work this way, the police evidently would not see water cannon
as a solution. As Sir Hugh Orde pointed out in 2011, after Cameron first vaunted
the idea, these weapons are designed for use against static crowds rather than
mobile groups. "I don't see it as necessary, and nor do the 43 chiefs I spoke to
this morning," Orde remarked. Moreover, Johnson's rationale for expediting the
procurement, that London could face disorder over the summer, is exceptionally
feeble even within its own logic. The Association of Chief Police Officers has
stated that its intelligence does not lead it to expect serious disturbance in
the near future. The London Assembly's police and crime commission finds no
convincing case has been made for the purchase.

So why does Orde want water cannon now? Why has the Association of Chief Police
Officers (Acpo) begun a national campaign to get water cannon approved? And why
has the Met chief, Bernard Hogan-Howe, asked Johnson to have operational water
cannon ready for summer 2014?

Acpo's answer is that even if there is unlikely to be serious disturbance,
"ongoing and potential future austerity measures are likely to lead to continued
protest" that can "turn to serious violent disorder". It says that the weapon
could have been used in contexts such as the student protests or those outside
the Israeli embassy in 2009.

The water cannon, though Boris Johnson blushes to admit it, is for use against
protesters. It is also, as Stuart Hall and his colleagues put it some decades
ago, for "policing the crisis".

Some opponents of water cannon have stressed the risk of serious injuries. This
is real enough, but it is epiphenomenal. The main point is to give police a
weapon that makes defiance almost impossible, treating protest as something to
be crushed and thus tilting the balance of power further away from citizens and
toward the state.

The home secretary, who has shown streaks of authoritarian malice in other
cases, has been cautious of this proposal, citing the need to preserve the
consensual nature of British policing. Indeed, part of her reform agenda and the
conflict with the police leadership resulting from it, is precisely about
reorganising the consensual basis for policing with elected commissioners.

However, this is where Johnson has been canny. He has carefully prepared the
ground for his move, with what looks like extensive push-polling in the guise of
consultation to generate support for the idea. He has solicited support across
ethnic groups, stressing this fact. And both he and Hogan-Howe, despite claiming
that the introduction of the weapon is an urgent matter for the police and
public safety, repeatedly declare that it would be used exceptionally rarely, if
ever.

In this way, Johnson has softened potential criticism so that he can offer a
juicy bone to the authoritarian right. He has put May on the spot. If she
ratifies the use of water cannon, she corroborates Johnson's precipitous action.
If she does not, she cedes ground to her right that Johnson will seek to occupy;
she appears both soft and further antagonises the police leadership, which
should ordinarily be the natural ally of a Conservative government.

As ever with Johnson, his bid comes with a populist feint. He has promised the
rightwing LBC journalist Nick Ferrari that he will allow himself to be blasted
with a water cannon to prove that it's no big deal. If May wants to keep her
lead, she might advise the cannon operators to turn the pressure up very high
indeed.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              512 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Huntington Beach Independent (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Police arrest six more in riot case

BYLINE: Anthony Clark Carpio, Huntington Beach Independent, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


Nov. 27--Huntington Beach police have arrested six additional suspects related
to the disturbance at the end of the U.S. Open of Surfing in July.

According to a statement from police, the arrests, made since August, make for
20 people taken into custody in connection with the incident on July 28, when
attendees of the surfing competition took to the streets of downtown Huntington
Beach, causing several thousands of dollars in damages.

Authorities recently arrested Michael Andrew Wilson Millard, 26, of Victorville,
on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon, arson, vandalism, refusing to
disperse and inciting a riot. He was arrested Nov. 14 at his home.

Another suspect, 24-year-old Vincent Trujillo, of Huntington Beach, surrendered
himself to the Orange County Superior Court West Justice Center on Oct. 10 on
charges of assault on a peace officer, inciting a riot and participating in a
riot.

Police also arrested Shayne Cody Baldwin, 25, of Stanton, on suspicion of
failing to disperse. He pleaded not guilty on Sept. 9 at the West Justice
Center.

Other suspects arrested were three juveniles, one from Long Beach and two from
Huntington Beach.

Authorities arrested a Huntington Beach juvenile Aug. 6 on suspicion of assault
on a peace officer, vandalism for damaging a taxi cab and newspaper stands,
refusing to disperse and participating in a riot, according to the statement.

Another teen from Surf City was arrested Aug. 13 on suspicion of vandalizing
newspaper stands.

Police issued a warrant on Aug. 6 for the Long Beach suspect for suspicion of
stolen property, vandalism, inciting a riot and participating in a riot.
Huntington Beach police detectives arrested the teen Oct. 11.

The Huntington Beach police are continuing to identify and arrest those involved
with the disturbance in July. Those with additional information on other
suspects can call Sgt. Jerry Abrahams at (714) 536-5949. Anonymous tips can be
submitted to http://www.occrimestoppers.org.

--Anthony Clark Carpio

___ (c)2013 the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) Visit
the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) at
www.hbindependent.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131127-1HB-Police-arrest-six-more-in-riot-case-1127-20131127

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1HB


                  Copyright 2013 Huntington Beach Independent

                              513 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                      June 19, 2014 Thursday 11:17 AM GMT

Teesside academic warns of repeat of 2011 UK riots due to anger at lack of
opportunities;
Teesside University professor who claims 2011 riots were non-political has
warned that it is only a matter of time before they happen again

BYLINE: By gazettelive

LENGTH: 342 words


By Lyndsay Oxley

Riots similar to those which swept the country three years ago will happen
again, a Teesside academic has warned.

Research carried out by Professor Simon Winlow from Teesside University's School
of Social Sciences & Law suggests that the majority of those involved in the UK
riots were not motivated by a desire for social justice.

Despite many arguing that the riots should be understood as a political response
to rising inequality, Prof Winlow believes the looting offered an endorsement of
contemporary consumerism.

The Teesside academic was part of a research team which interviewed around 40
young men who took part in the riots.

He claims that anger and frustration exist in abundance in poor neighbourhoods
but it shouldn't be assumed that this represents a desire for social change.

Prof Winlow said: "People are angry, but they're not angry at capitalism.
They're angry that they are not being provided with the opportunities to achieve
within capitalism. The difference is crucial."

As the gap between the rich and the poor continues to rise, Prof Winlow
indicates that another wave of riots is likely and that it is just a matter of
time.

He added: "There are very few legitimate opportunities for marginalised young
people. Every night on television we see the dream of extravagant consumerism.
People are told that all of this is available but for many people it's a dream
that can't be realised."

Professor Winlow was speaking ahead of the National Deviancy Conference which
takes place on 25-26 June.

The historical conferences began in the 1960s and developed new approaches to
the understanding of crime and disorder.

This year the conference will be hosted by Teesside University's Centre for
Realist Criminology for the first time and will be attended by speakers from
around the world.

The Centre opened last September and has since been developing a distinct form
of criminology which examines harm rather than those things judged 'criminal'.
The centre also has a commitment to charting changes in politics and consumer
culture.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              514 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police tested to the limit as riots erupt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 158 words


Police forces across the West dealt with serious plane crashes and huge riots
yesterday as a series of major emergency training exercises took place.

A two-day exercise began in Wiltshire so the emergency services and council
chiefs can practice how to deal with a major plane crash on a residential area
of the county. Meanwhile, Devon and Cornwall police had a 'very realistic'
practise at dealing with riots, with extras wielding baseball bats to attack the
police at an RAF base.

The exercise at St Mawgan, in Cornwall, saw officers car-rying out drills which
involved using riot vans to control imaginary crowds by funnelling them through
small gaps.

There was also training using baton rounds, or nonlethal rubber bullets
sometimes used in crowd control, and a mock riot with petrol bombs. The
inspectors running the operation were told a workforce was protesting against an
unfair balance of immigrants to workers recruited from the local area.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One of the pretend rioters prepares to throw a missile at the police
The police riot squad are bombarded with petrol bombs during Devon and Cornwall
Constabulary riot training at RAF St Mawgan. A two-day exercise also began in
Wiltshire yesterday so the emergency services and council chiefs can practice
how to deal with a major plane crash on a residential area of the county
PICTURE: COLIN HIGGS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              515 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Cauvery riots victims get relief

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: BANGALORE


BANGALORE, Dec. 23 -- The 20-year-long wait for compensation of the 1991 Cauvery
riot victims ended with the state government deciding to disburse the
compensation.

Based on the orders passed by the Cauvery Riots Relief Authority, the state
directed the Mysore deputy commissioner to disburse the relief amount of Rs
3,33,900 among 24 victims whose properties were damaged during the riots in
protest against the interim award of the Cauvery River Water Tribunal.

The principal secretary of Home Department has already written a letter to the
Mysore DC in this regard Expressing happiness at the decision, president of
Kannada-Tamil Harmony and Social Welfare Trust N Ramachandran, who had been
fighting to get relief for the riot victims, demanded the government to announce
relief for victims of other districts too.

Several people in Bangalore Urban and Rural, Chamarajanagar and Mandya districts
were affected by the riots as their properties were damaged, he added.

He said that the home secretary has passed this order after detailed discussions
with the DCs of the districts. While the Mysore DC has enough funds for the
victims, the relief amount for the remaining victims will be announced in the
next budget, Ramachandran said.

Turning the clock back...

The riots broke out across Karnataka, particularly the Old-Mysore region,
following the Cauvery Tribunal's interim award. During the riots, properties of
linguistic minorities were attacked. All the 24 victims who are shortlisted for
compensation were residents of H D Kote, Nanjangud, Hunsur taluks during the
attack and are now residing in Tamil Nadu. They will be sent letters to appear
before the Mysore DC with ID proof to obtain the relief amount. If the victim is
not alive, the kin of the victim can claim the amount by producing certificates,
he said.

He said the home department sought clarification on the list of relief amount
sanctioned to the victims as per its record and said that it will look into the
possibility of providing relief to the victims who are left out. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              516 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Shift riot cases out of Gujarat immediately: Congress

LENGTH: 274  words

DATELINE: Gandhinagar


Gandhinagar, Aug. 10 -- Congress on Tuesday demanded that all riot-related cases
of 2002 in Gujarat be immediately transferred out of the State, in the wake of
fresh reports of "collusion between the government of Gujarat and the lawyers
for the riot accused."

Party spokesperson Manish Tewari pointed out that action so far had been seen
only in those cases that had been heard outside Gujarat, even as he accused the
Narendra Modi government of victimising IPS officer Sanjeev Bhatt for filing a
Public Interest Litigation petition. He alleged that the Special Investigation
Team (SIT) had leaked information on the investigation of the riots to a State
law officer.

'Lawyers in cahoots with State'.

"There is complete collusion between the government of Gujarat and the lawyers
of the riot accused," Mr. Tewari said, adding, "We demand that all riot-related
cases be immediately transferred out of the State."

He also expressed the hope that the Supreme Court would take "serious note of
this miscarriage of justice and obstruction to the legal process," and take
cognisance of the "victimisation of Mr. Bhatt" by the Gujarat government. He
pointed out that there was apprehension that efforts had also been made to
"reach out to the SIT chief".

Mr. Bhatt, who has been locked in a public confrontation with the Gujarat
government over the 2002 post-Godhra riots, was suspended on Monday on the
grounds that his conduct was unbecoming of an IPS officer. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              517 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday
                                Final C Edition

Riot cost Vancouver millions; Some of the significant costs of the Stanley Cup
riot remain unknown, but here's what The Province has been able to find out
about the financial damage inflicted by the hooligans of June 15

BYLINE: Niamh Scallan, Theprovince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 233  words


More than two weeks after looters and vandals tore through Vancouver's streets,
the footprints of the city's violent hockey riot are still evident in the
downtown core.

Boarded-up windows, "Vanlover" signs and news of outed rioters are constant
reminders of the damage -and exorbitant cost -of a riot led by hordes of
boozed-up hooligans following Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final on June 15.

The Province s p o k e w i t h businesses, city staff, repair shops and other
sources to gauge the riot's impact on the wallets of its people in the weeks and
months to come.

Many businesses have replaced smashed windows and conducted inventories on
damaged or stolen merchandise, while many more shop owners are still assessing
total damage.

With the Vancouver Police Department unwilling to share the number of staff and
resources used the night of the riot, the cost of additional policing remains
unknown. The additional financial toll on the City of Vancouver resulting from
destroyed city property is also unknown at this point, and, with multiple
reviews of the city's riot preparation now in progress, it could be some time
before these figures are released.

Some of the following numbers are estimates and other numbers are impossible to
obtain.

The tally is expected to rise as more information becomes available.

Here's what The Province has been able to establish about what our bill looks
like so far:

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne -PNG; After the losses suffered by downtown stores, the
next biggest riot cost was destroyed and damaged vehicles, which accounted for
an estimated $500,000 bill to the province'speople through the Insurance Corp.
of B.C.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              518 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hindustan

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

Vinay Katiyar targets Azam Khan

LENGTH: 288  words

DATELINE: GREATER NOIDA


GREATER NOIDA, Sept. 19 -- BJP's senior leader Vinay Katiyar has target Azam
Khan in connection with the Muzzafarnagar riots. Accusing the stature leader of
state government, he said that SP, BSP and Congress under the guise of riots
want to create fear among the muslims for the vote-bank politics. He said this
in a press conference in Tugalpur village at the residence of Teja Gurjar,
yesterday.

He said that there is an atmosphere of disorder in Uttar Pradesh. Government has
failed on all issues. Apart from president rule in the state, there is no other
option. He said it is clear from the sting operation by channels that Azam Khan
is responsible for communal riots in Muzzafarnagar. After the riots, weapons had
been recovered from the houses of SP and BSP leaders. It is clearly evident from
this that BJP has nothing to do with riots.

In the guise of these riots, SP and Congress wanted to create fear among the
muslims, so that voters of this community can be rallied. He said that since the
time BJP has nominated Narendra Modi as candidate for post of prime minister,
the general people are continuously sending better messages in favour of BJP.
The party's graph is continuously rising. This time BJP will win 300 seats in
Lok Sabha elections and will form a Narendra Modi led government at the centre.

On this occasion, many leaders of BJP were present.

Reference: Original article of this translated version is available at

http://www.livehindustan.com/news/location/rajwarkhabre/article1-story-1-0-36421
9.html&locatiopnvalue=1

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Hindustan. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Hindustan Media Ventures Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              519 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday

'Pursue 1992-93 riots cases with same zeal'

BYLINE: Mateen Hafeez

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 410 words


MUMBAI: A day before the Supreme Court will take a final call on the mercy
petition of 1993 serial blasts convict Yaqub Memon, campaigners, who have been
following the city's worst sectarian riots cases for more than 20 years,
lambasted the government saying that it should show similar interest in
punishing the riot accused.

Disturbances and violence in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid
had left close to 275 Hindus and 575 Muslims dead in the financial capital.

The Supreme Court asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act and
after which a special task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Justice B N Srikrishna report on the riots. Jyoti Punwani, who followed and
wrote about the riots extensively, stated: "1,358 riot cases were closed and
classified as 'A summary' (true but not detected). The Srikrishna panel found
that the police made no effort to detect the offence, even when the accused had
been named by the complainants. Justice Srikrishna recommended the 1,358 closed
cases be probed again. The task force re-opened only five cases... amounting to
not even one per cent of the cases closed! These too ended in acquittal, thanks
to a half-hearted prosecution."

Activist Fareed Batatawala, an intervener in the Supreme Court in the riots
cases, said,"We don't want our children to be labelled and live as children or
rioters. A special investigation team was formed on my petition. However,
justice has been delayed. While the police arrested former MP Madhukar
Sarpotdar, other politicians were never taken in custody and the Mumbai police
are responsible for it.

The authorities had shown no interest in these cases. "If the Mumbai police's
guilty personnel been punished, then the Gujarat riots would not have occurred.
The Gujarat police dared knowing nothing happens to cops in such cases," he
added. "You are preparing to hang Memon, what about the riot perpetrators?"

he asked.

Shaikh Sajid, an activist from Jogeshwari, opined that the government should
take riots cases to their

logical conclusion.

"When the Radhabai chawl in Jogeshwari was set on fire, 13 people were killed.
We fought for the accused. We protected the Hindu families and with the help of
other NGOs we rehabilitated them. The state has shown no interest in remedy of
such riots and spreading communal harmony. Unless you punish the riot accused,
you cannot win the trust of victims," said Sajid.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              520 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

Number of riot police to increase after Turkish park protests

LENGTH: 544 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 2 August

(Todays Zaman) -Following the recent Gezi Park protests across the country, the
National Police Department has decided to recruit more riot police and also to
provide training courses for existing riot police on how to respond to mass
demonstrations more effectively.

The protests that erupted over the government's plan to demolish Taksim's famous
Gezi Park in late May later spread to tens of cities across Turkey. During the
protests, which lasted for nearly a month, some groups of protesters clashed
with the police and shouted anti-government slogans. Millions of lira of damage
were caused to shops and other buildings located near the demonstration areas.
The lack of a satisfactory response to the protests by police has led the
National Police Department to take action. The National Police Department has
decided to increase the number of riot police units as well as to give greater
training to existing riot police officers in responding to mass demonstrations.
In addition, the police department will give riot training courses to nearly
2,000 new police officers.

However, after Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc claimed on July 30 through the
TRT news channel that the government had received intelligence concerning a wave
of similar protests in September and October, the National Police Department has
intensified its efforts. The police department has also decided to provide riot
training courses to specialized police officers working in counterterrorism
units and anti-smuggling and organized crime units in the cities of Ankara,
Istanbul, Bursa, Izmir and Diyarbakir.

The National Police Department has already started giving riot training courses
to 1,500 police officers and 3,500 riot police officers in Ankara. The police
officers are being instructed in mass psychology, efficient and logical methods
of intervention in social events, and the legal aspects of intervention as part
of the riot training courses. Psychological specialists also attend the courses
to train the police officers on mass psychology and effective ways to respond to
mass demonstrations without escalating tension. Additionally, the officers will
undergo special tests as part of the programme. Those officers who tend to lose
their temper during the tests will be excluded from the riot programme and will
not be assigned to mass demonstrations in the future.

The source within the National Police Department, who declined to be named as
civil servants had not been authorized to speak to the press, told Today's Zaman
that the problems experienced during the Gezi protests caused the police
department to question itself and raise the awareness of its officers.

A small group of environmentalists began a sit-in protest at Gezi Park in the
heart of Istanbul in late May, attempting to block the government's plan to
build an Ottoman-style barracks on the park. Following a heavy-handed police
crackdown on the peaceful protesters, thousands took to the streets and rallies
spread across Turkey. Five people, including a policeman, have died and more
than 5,000 have been injured in the clashes, according to a Turkish rights
group.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 2 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              521 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Reading the Riots study to examine causes and effects of August unrest

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 903 words

ABSTRACT

The Guardian and the London School of Economics will work together on the first
empirical study into the rioting and looting

FULL TEXT

The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study into the widespread rioting and looting.

As well as surveys of those who took part in the disorder, the research will
include interviews with residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced
analysis of more than 2.5m riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the  and the . The project,
announced on the eve of the one-month anniversary of the , north London, will
seek to better understand why riots then spread to other parts of the capital
and cities across England.

Four consecutive nights of looting and arson in August left five people dead and
more than 2,000 suspects arrested. Police anticipate that investigations to
identify perpetrators of the disorder will last several years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted in the . The
findings of that study, the result of a groundbreaking collaboration between the
Detroit Free Press newspaper and Michigan's Institute for Social Research,
challenged prevailing assumptions about the cause of the unrest.

Prof Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit study more than four decades ago,
will advise the research into the English riots. The LSE's involvement will be
led by Prof Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department,
which has the highest possible research rating in the UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an advisor
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots.

"Crucially, it is vital that we speak with those involved in the disturbances
and those affected by them to try to understand any lessons for public policy."

Previous incidents of serious civil disorder in England, such as the Oldham
riots in 2001 and the Brixton riots in 1981, led to government-commissioned
inquiries and reviews. Lord Scarman's public inquiry into the Brixton
disturbances, which were followed by further rioting in Toxteth, Liverpool, in
the same year, proved a watershed moment for social policy, warning that urgent
action was required to tackle racial disadvantage and distrust in the police.

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into the August riots,
which flared in most of London's boroughs and spread to parts of Birmingham,
Manchester, Nottingham, Liverpool and Gloucester.

There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved in the
riots. A victims panel announced by the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, will
take evidence from residents in areas where there was rioting and report
preliminary findings in November. The four-person panel will be chaired by Darra
Singh, chief executive of JobCentre Plus.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts
and combine quantitative and qualitattive research methods. At the heart of the
project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian over the last month.

The first is a database of more than 1,100 defendants who have appeared in court
charged with riot-related offences. The list, compiled with the assistance of
the Ministry of Justice, consists of more than 70% of those who have appeared in
magistrate and crown courts. Many will be given the opportunity to take part in
the research study in the coming weeks.

The second database contains . Executives at Twitter's headquarters in
California authorised the collation of tweets, pooled from hashtags relating to
the riots and their aftermath, so they could form part of the study. A spokeman
for the company said: "Twitter provided publicly available information that is
accessible to researchers and others via its API."

Julia Unwin, chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The JRF
believes that solid evidence has to be the driver for good policy. So, as
policymakers develop responses to the riots, the need for solid evidence on the
causes of the riots is crucial. Currently none exists.

"The qualitatitve and quantitative data the Guardian has in its unique
possession is invaluable. The rigorous analysis the LSE will carry out on this
evidence will be vital to understanding why the riots occurred. It is for this
reason why JRF is involved in this partnership: we want policy responses to be
based on evidence, not on conjecture."

Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian News and Media editor-in-chief, said: "The
Guardian continues to make great strides in the field of data journalism, and
the volume of information and statistics we have gathered since the riots
erupted this time last month is vast. As a newspaper we can draw objective
conclusions from this data, but working with LSE will enable us to slot these
facts into the wider social picture and present a more comprehensive look at
what caused these events to unfold."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              522 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

1984 anti-Sikh riot: Arvind Kejiwal to distribute enhanced compensation to
victims

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Oct. 29 -- Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will distribute enhanced
compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of 1984 anti-Sikh riot
victims, as announced by the Centre, in West Delhi's Tilak Vihar area on Sunday.

According to a senior official, there are around 2,600 families of the 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims. Government has estimated expenditure of around Rs 130
crore on compensation.

In October last year, a hike in compensation to Rs five lakh had been announced
by the central government, five months after the BJP had formed its government
at the Centre.

"The Chief Minister will distribute enhanced compensation cheques to kin of 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims on November 1.

All families of the riot victims will be given enhanced compensation cheques
within two or three days beginning from Sunday," the official said.

The Official also said that Centre will later refund the compensation amount to
the Delhi Government as it was their scheme.

In August this year, the Delhi Cabinet had decided to distribute enhanced
compensation cheques as announced by the central government to the kin of the
1984 anti-Sikh riot victims.

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh had, in December last year, distributed
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to the 17 kin of riot victims in
West Delhi's Tilak Vihar area.

So far, around 143 kin of victims of the anti-Sikh riots have been disbursed
enhanced compensation cheques and around 2,300 were yet to be given, sources
said.

"Kin of several riot victims have not received enhanced compensation cheques so
far. In view of this, state government will distribute compensation to them and
later, central government will reimburse the compensation amount to the city
government," the official added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              523 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Reading the riots: Guardian/LSE investigation: 'There is an urgent need
for rigorous social research'

BYLINE: Paul Lewis Special projects editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words


The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study of the rioting and looting.

As well as surveys of those who took part in the disorder, the research will
include interviews with residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced
analysis of more than 2.5 million riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation
and the Open Society Foundations. The project, announced on the eve of the
one-month anniversary of the outbreak of trouble in Tottenham, north London,
will seek to better understand why riots then spread to other parts of the
capital and cities across England. Four consecutive nights of looting and arson
left five people dead with more than 2,000 suspects arrested. Police anticipate
that investigations to identify perpetrators of the disorder will last several
years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted in the aftermath
of the Detroit riots in 1967. The findings of that study, the result of a
groundbreaking collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and
Michigan's Institute for Social Research, challenged prevailing assumptions
about the cause of the unrest. Prof Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit
study, will advise on the research into the English riots.

The LSE's involvement will be led by Prof Tim Newburn, head of the university's
social policy department, which has the highest possible research rating in the
UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an adviser
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots.

"Crucially, it is vital that we speak with those involved in the disturbances
and those affected by them to try to understand any lessons for public policy."

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into the August riots.
There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts.
At the heart of the project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian
over the last month. The first comprises more than 1,100 defendants, or over
70%, of those who have appeared in court.

The second database contains 2.5m riot-related tweets. Executives at Twitter's
headquarters in California authorised the collation of tweets, pooled from
hashtags relating to the riots and their aftermath. Julia Unwin, chief executive
of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The qualitative and quantitative data
the Guardian has in its unique possession is invaluable."

Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian News and Media editor-in-chief, said: "The
Guardian continues to make great strides in the field of data journalism, and
the volume of information and statistics we have gathered since the riots
erupted this time last month is vast. As a newspaper we can draw objective
conclusions from this data, but working with LSE will enable us to slot these
facts into the wider social picture and present a more comprehensive look at
what caused these events to unfold."

Captions:

Prof Phil Meyer co-ordinated the Detroit study and will advise on the research
into the English riots

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              524 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

More than 20 inmates and two officers hurt during Pelican Bay riot

BYLINE: Chris Durant The Times-Standard

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 319 words


Nearly 50 inmates at Pelican Bay State Prison started a melee in which 21 of
them were injured with stab wounds from cell-made weapons and two correctional
officers were hurt from ricocheting projectiles.

Pelican Bay spokesman Lt. Ken Thomas said the riot occurred Monday, just before
2 p.m. on the Facility A general population yard.

"Initially, we believe this is a gang-related incident; however, we want to make
every effort to find out who is responsible for this riot so they can be held
accountable for their actions," Thomas said.

Correctional officers used pepper spray, rubber baton rounds and three rifle
rounds to stop the riot.

The bullets were fired as warning shots and did not hit anyone.

The two correctional officers who were injured were hit with ricocheting rubber
baton rounds, one in the leg an the other in the eye.

"He (the officer who was hit in the eye) has undergone surgery and is
recovering," a Pelican Bay press release stated.

Three of the 21 injured inmates were taken to medical facilities outside the
prison, treated for stab wounds and then returned to the prison.

After the melee was quelled, officers searching the yard found seven weapons
that had been made by inmates.

Not all the prisoners who were on the yard were involved in the riot.

Thomas said there are anywhere from 150 to 200 inmates on the yard at a time.

"This is one of the largest riots we've had since the Feb. 23, 2000 riot,"
Thomas said.

One inmate was killed and several others were injured during that riot, which
lasted more than a half hour and involved some 200 inmates.

The riot is being investigated by prison officials as well as the California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation's Deadly Force Investigation Team,
the Office of the Inspector General's Bureau of Independent Review and the Del
Norte County District Attorney's Office.

Chris Durant can be reached at 441-0506 or at cdurant@times-standard.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved

                              525 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday

Sports riots shatter race myth about violence

BYLINE: Mike Seate

LENGTH: 459 words


I can always tell when a column I've written contains a great deal of truth --
no one much chimes in to comment.

Tuesday's column about my white neighbors in Sewickley who were passing around
an urban legend claiming black Americans would riot across the nation if
Illinois Sen. Barack Obama didn't get the Democratic nod for president elicited
only a few e-mails.

One was a pitch to join the Obama campaign. Others contained messages like this:

Hey Mike,

Why are you so shocked about the blacks rioting comments -- as if they don't.
How about starting with the Rodney King riots, Martin Luther King assassination
riots in the Hill, Chicago riots, riots in Ohio a couple of years ago. Why are
you denying the obvious? I am sure that the blacks involved in the above
mentioned riots discussed their rioting beforehand. When was the last time you
saw a group of whites riot over anything?

-- John

John's contention that blacks riot unlike other races ignores history.

After the 2000 NBA championship win by the Los Angeles Lakers over the Indiana
Pacers, more than 10,000 fans left Staples Center, set fire to two police cars
and fought with police for hours after the game. Given the price of NBA tickets,
I'm guessing these rioters weren't from Compton.

Similar incidents followed NBA games in Denver -- a town where blacks make up
just 11.5 percent of the population -- and Chicago. Yet we tend not to recall
instances when white folks riot.

The white student body majority at West Virginia University rioted after its
football team's Oct. 22, 2003, victory over Virginia Tech. Students put down
their books and picked up bricks and bottles of lighter fluid earlier that year
when the Mountaineers lost to Miami in the Orange Bowl.

According to a recent study by the Web site Education Portal, WVU's student body
is just 3.5 percent black. With so few black students on the WVU campus, how do
folks like our letter writer explain those two ugly episodes?

According to Todd Crosset, a sociologist and professor of sports studies at the
University of Massachusetts who was interviewed in the student newspaper The
Daily Collegian, the riots follow a long, scripted tradition.

"It's a masculine cultural product," he said. "It's part of the mentality that
comes to us from mob lynching. They were big community affairs where people did
violence."

Crosset's assertion that riots at many universities are driven by young, white
males echoes other studies done across the nation.

So I'm sure there's plenty that poor, disenfranchised black folks could get
angry about and riot. A lack of jobs and the staggering economic disparities in
our region would appear to be possible motivations.

They appear to be more legitimate causes to riot over than sporting events.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              526 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

SHERIFF WON'T CHARGE TRUMP WITH INCITING RIOT Investigation follows assault at
N.C. rally

BYLINE: Colin Campbell Tribune News Service

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C.


RALEIGH, N.C. - Cumberland County sheriff's investigators considered charging
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump with inciting a riot at his
Fayetteville rally, but decided late Monday that Trump's comments didn't
constitute a crime.

Ronnie Mitchell, an attorney for the department, said in a news release Monday
afternoon that investigators were probing an incident last week in which a
protester was punched in the face while being escorted out of the Trump event.

John Franklin McGraw, 78, of Linden, has been charged with assault, disorderly
conduct and communicating threats. Investigators say video shows McGraw punching
the protester.

"We are continuing to look at the totality of these circumstances, including any
additional charges against Mr. McGraw, including the potential of whether there
was conduct on the part of Mr. Trump or the Trump campaign which rose to the
level of inciting a riot, and including the actions or inactions of our
deputies," Mitchell said in the release.

But Monday evening, a sheriff's department spokesman said that after reviewing
the incident, "the evidence does not meet the requisites of the law" regarding
riots.

North Carolina riot law says that "any person who willfully incites or urges
another to engage in a riot, so that as a result of such inciting or urging a
riot occurs or a clear and present danger of a riot is created, is guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor."

During the  event, Trump repeatedly paused during interruptions from protesters
and called on security officers to "get 'em out."

"In the good old days, this doesn't happen because they used to treat them very,
very rough," Trump said at one point. "And when they protested once, you know,
they would not do it again so easily. But today, they walk in and they put their
hand up, and they put the wrong finger up in the air at everybody, and they get
away with murder because we've become weak."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review

                              527 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

Ensure riot police get to 'hot zones' quickly

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS; Online Story

LENGTH: 259 words


THE efforts of the Police Special Operations Command (SOC) to draw the community
closer to it and educate the public on its capabilities are laudable ("Crack
troops always at the ready", Oct 19; and "Face-off against 'rioters'", last
Monday).

However, all this will come to nought if the SOC is late in arriving at the
scene of a riot, as it was during the Little India riot.

To prevent a recurrence of that incident, the SOC's Police Tactical Unit (PTU),
stationed at the Queensway base, should not be deployed for non-emergency patrol
duties. This will save precious time as the PTU troopers will not have to
regroup before travelling to the scene of a riot.

To overcome the possibility of having to travel a long distance to a riot scene,
and having to battle traffic congestion along the way, the SOC could consider
putting smaller detachments of PTU troopers on standby at police divisional
headquarters nearer to riot-prone areas.

These troopers will not only be able to arrive at the scene earlier and nip the
problem in the bud, but they will also be able to support and boost the
anti-rioting capabilities of the divisional police officers.

Finally, the SOC could consider inserting PTU troopers via helicopters, or
having them heli-rappel into or near the "hot zone", should their tactical
vehicles be impeded.

The bottom line is that time is of the essence.

The SOC can be one of the best trained and best-equipped elite riot police
forces around, but this will not amount to anything if it arrives just as a riot
begins to die down.

Edwin Pang

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              528 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Islington Gazette

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Man jailed for inciting riots on Facebook

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 243 words


A "thrill-seeker" who used a Facebook page to encourage disorder during the
riots has been locked up for two years in the first case of its kind in London.



Terry Balson, 20, of Halton Road, Islington, set up a page called "For the riot
(f**k the feds)" on August 9 last year, which could have inspired violence in
Wood Green and Barnet.

He posted comments including "Barnet High Road is the spot apparently, who is on
it?" and "Come to Wood Green at 6pm".

Jobless Balson - the first person to be sentenced for inciting people to riot in
London - was arrested after members of the public reported the site to police.

His page had attracted 20 members and the same night a police station and a
mobile police office on a housing estate, both in Barnet, were attacked,
alongside stores at Brent Cross Shopping Centre.

Balson admitted incitement to riot at an earlier hearing and on Tuesday he was
sentenced at Wood Green Crown Court to two years in a young offenders'
institution.

Judge Simon Carr said: "Your involvement was very specific on what would have
been the third day of the riots, when everyone would have been aware of the
destruction and loss of life that was occurring."

He added: "You did this because you see thrill-seeking as part of your reason
for being. You take risks for the sake of taking risks and although I accept you
are a man of good character, you have in the past, as part of your desire for
excitement, walked on the edge of criminality."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IGZ


                      Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              529 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday

Chino prison reopens riot-damaged area after reconstruction

BYLINE: Neil Nisperos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 406 words


CHINO - The California Institution for Men has reopened the dormitory it closed
after inmates destroyed the housing unit in a riot last year.

Reception Center West at CIM has been redubbed "CIM West" and has a grand
opening ceremony scheduled for Oct. 6. Contractors have finished refurbishing
about half of the area's eight dormitories. The housing area is expected to be
completely refurbished at the end of the month, said Lt. Mark Hargrove, CIM
spokesman, at a cost of $6million. As of last week, 461 inmates had been moved
into CIM West.

Officials with the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
decided that the refurbished dorms, which had been rendered uninhabitable by the
riot, would no longer house higher-risk reception center inmates.

At maximum capacity, the prison is expected to house about 960 lower security
risk inmates who have already been processed through a reception center, where
incoming prisoners are evaluated for appropriate housing and rehabilitation.

A state report on the 2009 riot said officials in Sacramento had, prior to the
riot, failed to address the "dangerous incompatibility" of higher-security-risk
reception center inmates being housed in large, wooden dormitories. Such inmates
are generally confined in cells, rather than an open dormitory setting as they
were during the riot. More than 200 inmates were injured during the riot.

The reopening of CIM's dormitories coincides with the closure of an adult
reception center housing operation last month at the nearby Heman G. Stark
facility, which formerly housed youths. Stark closed earlier this year, while it
began to house displaced CIM reception center inmates after the riot.

"They did remove all the inmates out of Stark, and that's when we also began to
house at CIM West," Hargrove said.

Hargrove said some of the former adult Stark reception center inmates who have
been endorsed by prison staff as low-risk level 1 or level 2 have been placed at
the new West dorms. Other reception center inmates at Stark were moved to other
institutions throughout the state prison system.

"We identified inmates for West that fit the criteria for that housing and they
were classified as endorsed," Hargrove said.

"They could have come out of any of our state reception centers. They weren't
specifically from Stark, although some Stark inmates were endorsed. Many of the
Stark inmates have been shipped and rehoused at other institutions."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              530 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

SIT was not ordered to look into larger conspiracy;
2002 riots

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 352  words


The Supreme Court never directed or ordered the Special Investigating team (SIT)
to probe the larger conspiracy as claimed by riot victim Zakia Jafri, said the
advocate appearing on behalf of the SIT in Ahmedabad.

"The Supreme Court, when it ordered the setting up of SIT to probe nine cases of
post-Godhra riots, never ordered us to probe the larger conspiracy behind the
riots as claimed by riot victim Zakia Jafri in her protest petition," advocate R
S Jamuar, counsel for SIT, told metropolitan magistrate B J Ganatra on Monday.

He was replying to issues raised by Jafri's lawyers on the petition filed in
protest against the SIT report giving a clean chit to chief minister Narendra
Modi and others for their alleged role in the riots.

Jafri's lawyers have claimed that the panel had failed to investigate the aspect
of larger conspiracy allegedly hatched by the chief minister and others in power
during the riots.

Citing the series of apex court orders, beginning in 2008 when the constitution
of SIT was ordered, Jamuar said: "I have all the documents to prove that Jafri's
lawyers have disregarded everything. They simply wanted the SIT to carry out the
investigation according to their diktats and desires. The SIT was constituted on
a petition filed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and not on the
basis of Jafri's plea. Main responsibilities assigned to SIT were to protect the
witnesses, victims and litigants."

Jamuar added: "The complainant, during the arguments, could not touch upon the
main aspect of the investigation on which the Supreme Court wanted a probe by
SIT.... Issues raised in the protest petition neither form part of our
investigation nor were desired by the apex court."

Jafri, whose husband - former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri - was killed by a violent
mob that attacked Gulbarg Housing Society, has demanded that the report be
rejected by the court and an order be passed to file a charge sheet against Modi
and others in connection with the violence.

SIT's reply to arguments and objections raised by Jafri's lawyers began on
Monday before Ganatra and will continue on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              531 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Medan prison riot: 4 terrorists among escaped convicts;
Hunt goes on for more than 170 prisoners still on the run after riot

BYLINE: Zakir Hussain Indonesia Bureau Chief In Jakarta

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words


INDONESIAN police and soldiers stepped up checks across North Sumatra as they
vowed to track down more than 170 convicts - including four terrorists - still
on the run after a prison riot in Medan.

The riot saw an office building and main gate burnt, while five people died in
the blaze in Sumatra's largest city, including two prison officers.

Officials will soon redistribute prisoners to other jails, and all correctional
facilities nationwide have been told to raise their guard against potential
riots, Coordinating Security Minister Djoko Suyanto told the media yesterday.

Tanjung Gusta prison's "tremendous overcapacity" demanded serious action, he
added.

"The President has also ordered a thorough investigation into the background and
motivations for the incident," he said.

This will include looking at whether the riot was planned, he added.

Initial investigation showed that Thursday's riot was caused by inmates angry
about a water shortage resulting from a day-long power blackout.

It highlighted the problem of severe overcrowding and overstretched facilities
in Indonesian prisons, which are already notorious for regular disciplinary
lapses.

And while there were plans to build more prisons nationwide, Mr Djoko said this
will take time.

Tanjung Gusta had a capacity of 1,054, but housed 2,600 inmates.

A roll call of prisoners at 4am yesterday found 240 prisoners missing. Police
captured 64 of them before noon.

Mr Djoko said 14 terrorists were housed there. Five did not escape, while four
who fled were caught.

Yesterday afternoon, police spokesman Hilman Thayib confirmed that a fifth
terror inmate had been rearrested. Elite counter-terror unit Densus 88 is
searching for the other four.

National Counter-Terrorism Agency chief Ansyaad Mbai confirmed that one of the
terrorists at large is Fadli Sadama, a key figure in a Jemaah Islamiah (JI)
offshoot. He was serving an 11-year sentence for robbing a CIMB Bank branch in
Medan in 2010 to finance terror activities.

Several other terrorists were serving time for the same robbery, an attack on a
police station, or for being part of a Jamaah Ansharut Tauhid training camp in
Aceh.

Fadli was arrested with two handguns in Malaysia in 2010, and was said to be
planning a terror attack in Pekanbaru like the one in Mumbai in 2008 that killed
170. Security analysts say he was also a runner for JI bombmaker Noordin Top and
was reportedly trying to renew links with old JI networks in the region.

Mr Ansyaad also noted that Fadli and most of the terrorists detained in the
prison were disciples of Toni Togar.

Toni had organised several robberies from prison - using guards' cellphones -
and is serving a 20-year jail term for JI's Christmas Eve bombings in 2000. He
was at Tanjung Gusta till 2009, and is now at the maximum-security Nusakambangan
prison in Central Java.

Yesterday, Law and Human Rights Minister Amir Syamsuddin visited the scene and
spoke to several inmates behind closed doors.

According to several news websites and TV stations, they were opposed to a new
regulation that tightened remissions for crimes to do with corruption, drugs and
terrorism.

In Jakarta, Mr Amir's deputy Denny Indrayana said these rules were meant to
signal a tougher line on major crimes.

But Antara News Agency reported MP Aboe Bakar Al Habsyi as saying that the
incident showed the need for prison inspections "to not just check which inmates
had iPads".

"They have to ensure that basic humanitarian needs of inmates, like water and
electricity, are met," he said.

zakirh@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              532 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday

BYLINE:

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 573 words


Seven more charged in Stanley Cup riot

VANCOUVER - Vancouver police announced Wednesday seven more people have been
charged in the June 2011 Stanley Cup riot.

Vancouver police Insp. Les Yeo said the seven new cases brings the number of
criminal charges to 225 against 85 people. Police have recommended the Crown
charge 175 people with 508 counts.

The riot broke out June 15, the night the Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the
Stanley Cup finals to the Boston Bruins.

Spencer Cox, 18, and Andrew Comber, 37, have both been charged with
participating in a riot, mischief and arson. Cox is from Burnaby, B.C., and
Comber is from Salmon Arm, B.C.

Todd Gartland, 22, from North Vancouver, and a 15-year-old young offender from
Coquitlam, B.C., have been charged with participating in a riot and break and
enter.

Michael Bosa, 21, from Burnaby, and another 15-year-old young offender from
Coquitlam have been charged with participating in a riot and mischief.

Sukhjiwan Grewal, 18, from Surrey, B.C., has been charged with participating in
a riot and two counts of mischief.

Canada, Denmark may split Arctic island

Hans Island may look like nothing more than a big, vacant rock in Arctic waters,
but for decades, it's been a political thorn in the side of both the Canadian
and Danish governments.

That thorn soon could be removed.

Ownership of the barren, 1.3-square-kilometre piece of land - located in Nares
Strait, between Canada's Ellesmere Island and Greenland, which falls under the
Danish Crown - has been hotly contested since the current maritime borders were
drawn up in 1973. Boundaries of the surrounding waters and seabeds are clear,
but each country continues to claim the land mass as their own.

The disagreement has led to some famous displays of sovereignty. Danish warships
and naval personnel visited the island several times from the mid-1980s to early
2000s to maintain a flag. In 2005, Canadian soldiers ventured to the island to
erect a Canadian flag and to build an inukshuk in an operation code-named
"Exercise Frozen Beaver." Then-defence minister Bill Graham visited the island
shortly after.

The argument may be permanently resolved soon, however. Sources say Canada and
Denmark are close to an agreement, which would see Hans Island split between the
two nations, according to a report in the National Post.

The reported agreement would create a border across the island - creating
Canada's second international land border - by connecting the existing maritime
boundaries, which stop on the low-water mark on the south side of the land mass
and begin again at the low-water mark on the north side.

Four B.C. men split $30-million lottery win

VANCOUVER - Four Langley, B.C., golfing buddies are already planning trips to
the world-renowned Pebble Beach, Calif., and St. Andrews, Scotland, courses
after scoring a huge win in Friday's $30-million jackpot.

Self-avowed golf fanatics Ian McMurtie, Wayne Miller, Tom Moryson and Joe
Scully, who work together in Langley, have been buying Lotto Max tickets for a
couple of years.

McMurtie caught the winning numbers while making breakfast and watching the
Saturday morning news.

He immediately started calling his friends.

Scully hung up the phone.

But after seeing an e-mail copy of the winning ticket, he had to believe his
friend. "I always had this conviction that I was never going to win on my own,
but I had a feeling I would win with these guys," said Scully.

Sources: Postmedia News

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              533 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                 March 27, 2012

Leaked report blames poor parenting for riots

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 215  words


Last summer's riots were caused by a lack of opportunities for young people,
poor parenting and no confidence in the police, according to a leaked report.

Sky News reported the national Riots, Communities and Victims Panel report, due
to be published today, also highlighted materialism and re-offending.

The panel was commissioned by the government to explore the causes of the riots
in August last year, which saw Croydon the worst borough affected.

Historic furniture store House of Reeves and several properties were torched as
510 reported crimes, including 232 burglaries, were reported.

According to Sky, the report recommends schools are penalised if pupils leave
illiterate, prison-leavers should be given more support and long term unemployed
young people promised jobs.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, expressed his
dismay that the report had been leaked.

He said: "We are disappointed that Sky News has leaked contents from a near
final version of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel's final report, which
is due to be published tomorrow and is still being finalised.

"Our remit was to give a voice to the communities and victims of the August
riots. This leak may have impacted on our ability to ensure they receive the
widest possible audience."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              534 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday

Riot-damaged CIM prison dorms get makeover for summer opening

BYLINE: Neil Nisperos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words


CHINO - State prison officials are moving forward on construction and changes to
procedure following the destructive prison riot at California Institution for
Men in August.

The state is busy with its $5 million project to rebuild and refurbish several
inmate housing dormitories that were burned and significantly damaged in the
riot that resulted in nearly 200 injured inmates and the loss of about 1,300
beds.

Work on the riot-damaged dormitories at CIM's Reception Center-West is expected
to be completed by summer. Officials plan to move in several hundred fewer beds
and lower-risk inmates than were there at the time of the riot, said Scott
Kernan, deputy corrections secretary of adult operations.

"We're not putting the same type of reception center population that had
previously been there prior to the riot," Kernan said.

Chino Mayor Dennis Yates, who along with other local officials remains concerned
over public safety issues associated with impacts from the August riot, said he
is doubtful the planned population level could remain in place unchanged over
time.

"Based on the amount of prisoners being housed there, they'll put more in
there," he said.

On Tuesday, officials with the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation released an "after-action" report which highlights areas in need
of improvement after a review of the incident.

Identified changes include better ways to identify inmates during riots and ways
to improve communication with responding law enforcement agencies. Corrections
is searching for an Internet technology solution to provide remote fingerprint
identification to more quickly identify inmates involved in rioting.

The report says the department is using fire-retardant materials and sturdier
metal fixtures as it retrofits the damaged dormitories.

The report comes as the Office of the Inspector General is expected soon to
release its own review of the riot and official response to it.

The riot hastened the closure of the nearby Heman G. Stark Youth Correctional
Facility as part of a estimated $110 million plan to place 2,000 more adult
prison beds in celled units there after a planned refurbishment and placement of
lethal electrical perimeter fencing.

Primary plans related to the conversion of the former youth facility call for a
new inmate reception center there to be called Reception Center-South. Kernan
said administrative and organizational structure for the new site is still being
finalized, though operations are currently being handled under nearby CIM.

The adult prison is just a few miles to the west of the former youth prison on
state-owned land sandwiched between Euclid and Central avenues.

About 700 inmates from the adult prison are already housed in a two-story,
concrete-celled unit at the former youth facility and another 700 are expected
to be moved there later this year.

Local officials, Yates among them, have voiced public safety concerns regarding
another significant movement of adult inmates from CIM.

"Prior to moving more prisoners, we want to make sure there's an electric
perimeter," Yates said. "Indications are they may start moving prisoners now
without proper security measures."

In response to concerns over the increased adult population, Kernan said
Corrections is going to take appropriate steps to deal with security concerns
with physical modifications to the facility and additional staffing.

An audit released by the Office of the Inspector General in 2008 found that poor
handling of dangerous, high-security-risk inmates posed a safety risk for
inmates and staff members.

Auditors in the 2008 report said that Reception Center-West is intended to house
the lowest-risk prisoners who arrive at the prison, with more dangerous
prisoners assigned to the central or east reception centers. Yet prison staff
members assigned inmates to Reception Center-West despite classification scores
that exceeded the limit set for the reception center, auditors reported.

In response to auditors' concerns about the drills, prison supervisors achieved
"full and complete compliance" with the requirement, said Corrections Secretary
Matthew Cate in response to the 2008 report.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              535 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              May 30, 2008 Friday
                                  City Edition

Events will mark Tulsa Race Riot

BYLINE: Staff Reports

SECTION: WEEKEND LOOK I; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: TULSA


TULSA - A march, a series of moderated discussions and a screening of a new
documentary will commemorate the 87th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Riot on
Saturday.

At 10 a.m. Saturday, hundreds of marchers will protest the lack of compensation
and reparations to survivors of the riot, which killed at least 38 people and
left thousands homeless. The marchers will include three of the oldest survivors
of the riot: Otis Clark, 105, and Wesley Young, 91, of Tulsa; and Dr. Olivia
Hooker, 93, of White Plains, N.Y.

The survivors and their legal team will hold a town hall meeting at 1 p.m.,
followed by a 3 p.m. screening of director Reggie Turner's "Before They Die," a
documentary about the race riots and the survivors' struggle to find justice. A
post-screening "talk back" session will include discussions of how to properly
document the events surrounding the riot.

The screening and discussions will be at the Oklahoma State University-Tulsa
Auditorium, 700 N Greenwood Ave. For more information, go online to
www.beforetheydiemovie.com/MarchOnTulsa.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

                              536 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           December 3, 2005 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Police riot witnesses to have say

BYLINE: Paola Totaro

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 323 words


A parliamentary inquiry into the Macquarie Fields riots in February and March
will begin hearing witnesses - including the Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney -
on Monday, sparking criticisms that the pre-Christmas timing is aimed at
blunting political fallout.

But new crime figures for the area collated for the inquiry reveal some good
news for the police, with steady declines in break and enters, robbery and
stolen vehicles since February. This suggests policing strategies brought in
after the riots are benefiting the community.

Initially the former premier Bob Carr rejected calls for an inquiry. He insisted
in the days after the riot that police had "responded appropriately" to the
situation and the Opposition would use an investigation to attack Mr Moroney.

But an internal police report later suggested local commanders had
underestimated the event's seriousness, making decisions not to respond too
aggressively and inflame the situation, which led to errors. The Minister for
Police, Carl Scully, then admitted the riots could have been handled better.

The Democrat MP Arthur Chesterfield-Evans said the inquiry should explore the
links between disadvantage, policing and urban unrest. Last year's Redfern riot
and the recent youth unrest in Paris were lessons, he said.

"Changes to the welfare system are putting the screws on people who are already
disadvantaged ... now the anti-terrorism laws are doing the same in the Muslim
community," he said.

"I'm told that Muslim youth are at the end of their tether ... It's a bit
disappointing that the inquiry is being heard in the lead-up to Christmas as it
will take away the emphasis of it ... and it has been delayed for so long before
that, first for the [internal] police report and then deliberate delays until
after the Macquarie Fields by-election."

The Labor MP Jan Burnswoods will chair the inquiry, which will hear evidence
from senior police, as well as local young people.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              537 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

From Futurists to Pussy Riot, a Brief History of Russian Performance Art

BYLINE: DAWN CHAN

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 434 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new show at the Garage Center of Contemporary Art in Moscow traces
the country&#8217;s lineage of provocative demonstrations.


As the world saw in 2012, the anti-Putin "prayer" staged by feminist punk group
Pussy Riot proved so provocative that several of the musicians ended up
imprisoned on charges of hooliganism. Now, a new exhibition in Moscow features
radical Russian groups like Pussy Riot - and, more importantly, contextualizes
them in a long lineage of Russian performance. Curated by Yulia Aksenova and
Sasha Obukhova, the show opens Friday, Oct. 17, at the Garage Museum of
Contemporary Art. According to Kate Fowle, Garage's chief curator, the show
"looks for the first time at the impact of the interrupted trajectory between
prewar and postwar epochs of performance in Russia." Aksenova and Obukhova were
reluctant to identify favorites, but were finally cajoled into highlighting
several standout moments in the history of Russian performance art.

1910s A group of Russian artists, identifying themselves as Futurists (or
Cubo-Futurists), paint their bodies and faces with strange markings,
hieroglyphs, tendrils and squiggles that represent, among other things, the
jarring developments in urban life and modernity. Their manifesto, Obukhova
notes, includes the line, "The time is right for art to invade life."

1920 Directed by Nikolai Evreinov, the Storming of the Winter Palace is a mass
spectacle staged in Petrograd. As an audience of over 100,000 watches, a
reported 8,000 to 10,000 participants (from soldiers to ballet dancers) reenact
the October Revolution, paying homage to the Red Army, accompanied by fireworks
and the firing of a cannon.

1970s An assemblage called Collective Actions starts making underground art, as
performance is verboten. ("It was a very hard time," Obukhova says. "All art
that reminded people of modern tendencies was forbidden.") The members of
Collective Actions stage ambiguous, poetic acts, often privately in homes, or in
the anonymity of rural settings. Audiences - most often their friends and
associates - receive elliptical instructions to meet at an appointed time; in
one performance, everyone who shows up to participate is instructed to pull
seven kilometers of white rope across an abandoned field.

1995 The artist Alexander Brener sets the tone for his provocative future
performances by donning boxing gloves, marching out into the Red Square and
challenging Boris Yeltsin to a fight.

2002 Two artists, dubbed the Factory of Found Clothes, direct a bevy of cadets
to solemnly carry small, white, paper dresses through St. Petersburg - a
military drill, by all appearances, but made refreshing through the inclusion of
delicate women's apparel.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
