
                               1 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday

Hanoi urged to fully compensate Chinese firms

LENGTH: 487  words


To restore confidence in its emerging-market economy, Vietnam should fully and
quickly compensate Chinese enterprises ravaged by anti-China riots in May, a
leading expert on international affairs said on Wednesday.

On Tuesday, Hanoi made an initial payment of more than $7 million to compensate
nearly 140 businesses, including Chinese-owned companies, that came under attack
during anti-China riots last month, Voice of America reported.

The riots were sparked by a dispute between the two countries over the placement
of an oil rig owned by China's largest offshore oil producer in the South China
Sea. Beijing has repeatedly asserted that the rig is within China's territorial
waters.

At least two Chinese workers died and dozens were injured in the attacks.

Hanoi also pledged on Tuesday to help the 140 companies recover from the attacks
by offering initiatives, such as tax deferments.

Lu Jianren, lead researcher at the China-ASEAN Research Institute at Guangxi
University in Nanning, said Vietnam, which is battling high inflation and
unemployment, is trying to rebuild global confidence through the compensation
plan.

"The Vietnamese government obviously underestimated the consequences of the
riots," Lu said.

"From the perspective of investment, the anti-Chinese protests also affected
enterprises from other countries, such as Japan and Singapore, and caused panic
among potential investors over the country's political risks."

It is estimated that 39 Chinese mainland enterprises, mostly in the southern and
central parts of Vietnam, suffered extensive property damage, with losses
reaching about $16 million. So far, only three of these companies have been
compensated about $220,000 in all.

Many Chinese enterprises are negotiating with the Vietnamese government over
their compensation claims.

In the Vung Ang Economic Zone in central Ha Tinh Province, 350 km south of
Hanoi, Taiwan-invested Formosa Plastics Group was heavily damaged in the riots.

China Metallurgical Group Corp, a contractor for Formosa Plastics, suffered $108
million in direct and indirect losses during the rioting, said Fan Yaozhong,
general representative of the contractor.

"We have to submit a statement of loss to the local authority by the end of this
month and present evidence by the end of July. Vietnam has promised to confirm
the actual loss at the end of August," Xinhua quoted Fan as saying.

In late May, Vietnam sentenced one man to three years in prison and another to a
year in prison for inciting the riots. More than 1,000 people were reportedly
arrested for participation in the violence.

China's Foreign Ministry has repeatedly urged Hanoi to investigate the riots,
punish the perpetrators and compensate the affected Chinese companies and
personnel in Vietnam.

Wang Jian in Hanoi and Xinhua contributed to this story.

puzhendong@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 06/26/2014 page4)

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                          2 - All-round First Edition

SUPER BOARDS UNDER SCRUTINY

BYLINE: JOHN DURIE

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1216  words


Bill Shorten is expected to support having more independents on fund boards

FEDERAL Financial Services Minister Bill Shorten is expected to back calls for
more independents on superannuation fund boards but stop short of retail
industry demands for a majority of independents.

Tomorrow Shorten is due to unveil his plans for superannuation fund governance
standards, a key part of the Cooper review.

At the very least an independent fund chair would be supported by all sides of
the industry.

The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority favours a system whereby all fund
boards should work towards a model of one third independents, one third employer
and one third employee representation.

The retail funds' Financial Services Council has taken the moral high ground,
setting standards that would put super funds on the same footing as listed
companies.

For the most part its recommendations are sound: requiring more disclosure on
pay, more detail on proxy voting standards, compulsory proxy guidelines and an
independent chair.

Shorten will support much of that, but there will be disagreement on calls to
have a majority of independents on super boards.

The targets are industry funds whose boards have equal representation of
employers and employees. The industry funds argue that system ensures careful
supervision, and the record, for the most part, supports it.

They also argue AMP and the banks are the real laggards on disclosure and board
representation, as many of their funds are dominated by head office appointees.

They tend to back the company, not necessarily the people whose money is being
managed.

Some would argue fund manager compensation should be looked at while the
spotlight is on superannuation.

The suspicion being the managers are doing very well while the funds' paypackets
are relatively modest.

Funds should be able to enforce their own standards on the managers they choose.

Shorten has already granted the council its first wish in its budget submission:
capital gains tax rollover relief for fund mergers.

As expected, the Financial Services Minster this week extended the term for
rollover relief by four years, to 2017.

Having been granted its first wish, the council may worry that it's all downhill
from here.

The rumoured tax changes would confirm those fears, if for no other reason than
more changes are mooted for a system that has faced constant tinkering.

Governments of both persuasions appear unable to keep their hands out of the
lolly jar even though they undermine confidence in the system.

----- China lifts Apple -----

APPLE was once considered great in the US but not so offshore, but no longer.
China is its boom market, with 20 per cent of its sales.

That should help Apple continue to defy sceptics.

Intel founder Gordon Moore's rule of thumb was the number of transistors that
could be placed on an integrated circuit would double every two years. That
suggests the price of computer should fall, but Apple continues to force
telephone companies to pay it fat margins to sell its equipment.

The basic Apple Mac has sold for between $US1200 ($1160) and $US1300 for as long
as most can remember, a further reflection of its pricing power.

In its fiscal first half, Apple generated $US12.4 billion in revenue from China
compared with $US13.3bn for all of last year.

This follows the company's infamous launch of its new phone this year when its
flagship Beijing store didn't open, causing a riot.

The China boom is leading to the rise of a middle class there. China has about 1
billion mobile phone users and more than 120 million 3G spectrum users.

In the second quarter last year Apple generated 43.4 per cent of its revenue
from North America. Now that take has fallen to 37.9 per cent with the
Asia-Pacific region's share up from 22.1 per cent to 29.2 per cent, led by
China.

The growth in China will offset concerns that Apple's growth will slow with the
near-saturation of the US market.

Wall Street is forecasting a fall in margins in the second half of the year from
47 per cent to 41 per cent -- still the sort of gross profit most companies
would die for.

Since its launch in 2010 Apple has sold 67 million iPads. It took 24 years for
its landmark Macintosh computers to reach that point. Apple's stock was up 7 per
cent in after-hours trade after it again reported numbers well above estimates,
with revenue increasing from $US24.6bn to $39.2bn and net income from $US5.9bn
to $US11.6bn.

Before last night's trade in the US Apple was valued at $US533bn, up $35bn,
after stronger earnings.

The miracle's not over yet.

----- Merger queue -----

THERE are 17 mergers listed on the ACCC website awaiting decision, including six
involving Woolworths, mainly on the liquor side of the business.

The ALH joint venture is trying to mop up some more sites in NSW, including one
in a joint purchase with the Laundy family of the Caringbah Hotel.

ALH is also trying to buy a string of pubs from the Laundy family, but this one
involves ALH buying the assets and entering into a long term lease.

The Caringbah is being sold by the Bayfield family.

A decision on this one is due in mid-May but the rest are in a holding pattern,
like the vast majority of matters on the register, with the ACCC ``waiting on
further information from the parties''.

This is code for negotiations over proposed undertakings.

Mergers commissioner Jill Walker is a detail zealot and the new regime aims to
be thorough rather than speedy.

In some deals, timetables loom, as is the case with a $500 million interest
payment due on the Loy Yang power station.

Another group of deals, which have already gone through and are subject to no
timetable, include the Bunnings-Werribee Mitre 10 acquisition. The advice is
that any retail deal will be subject to full scrutiny, which can take years, and
the odds are the deal is OK, so the parties may as well complete the acquisition
and see what the ACCC decides.

----- Lend Lease pays up -----

LEND Lease has agreed to cough up more than $50m over a decade-long fraud in the
US.

Greg Clarke, the Englishman who ran Lend Lease from 2002 until 2008, was last
sighted as Britain's Football League chairman.

His predecessor at Lend Lease was David Higgins, who has since been knighted
after playing a key role in getting London ready for the Olympics.

Higgins and Clarke were in charge during the period of the US allegations.

Higgins was in charge when Lend Lease acquired Bovis Construction and when the
company won the clean-up job at the World Trade Centre.

Clarke was later to say the company was on its knees when he took over, but by
the time he left in 2008 was in fine shape.

----- Rule change portal -----

SOMEWHAT belatedly, this column should draw attention to a new portal by
Professor Justin O'Brien at the University of NSW law and market regulation
centre.

It's a global one-stop shop bringing together news and commentary from around
the world on changes in regulation.

O'Brien says: ``The privileging of market governance -- limiting the role of the
state to that of enabler of freedom to contract -- is the result of a very
specific social ordering, which in turn has specific consequences for legal form
and societal purpose.''

His aim is to look at financial market regulation to see whether it works and
provide an ethical backdrop to the market.

A noble cause.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday
                               5 - Travel Edition

The master of spices thrives on tradition - DESTINATION MALAYSIA -

BYLINE: MICHELLE ROWE

SECTION: REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627  words


An endearingly quirky neighbourhood eatery in Kuala Lumpur is run by a
flamboyant celebrity chef

IF I weren't in the bustling Malaysian capital, I'd swear I've stumbled into my
dearly departed grandmother's home in suburban Melbourne.

The small, airconditioned room in which I'm sipping sweet tea is a riot of china
plates mounted on walls, pewter vases on occasional tables, mismatched pictures
and other kitsch collectables. Small Persian rugs are scattered about and
there's an old-fashioned lounge suite replete with footstools on which
home-decor magazines are piled high.

I am here to meet the equally colourful Ismail Ahmad, better known as Chef
Ismail, who hails from a small village in Negeri Sembilan, 70km south of Kuala
Lumpur, and is now one of the country's highest-profile chefs.

When he arrives, I am engulfed by his larger-than-life personality; we are at
Restoran Rebung Chef Ismail, the eatery the Malay Muslim chef co-owns with
Sheikh Muszaphar Shukor al-Masrie, the Southeast Asian nation's first astronaut,
who also lists part-time model and orthopaedic surgeon on his CV.

In the affluent Bangsar neighbourhood about 5km southwest of the city centre,
Rebung has earned a loyal following among those seeking the real deal when it
comes to rich and spicy Malay flavours.

There are mainly locals here today but Ismail says he has had more Australians
in since his appearance on the ABC TV series Poh's Kitchen, alongside former
MasterChef Australia contestant Poh Ling Yeow (the exuberant Ismail is no
stranger to the small screen, having featured on cookery shows with titles such
as Hey Good Cooking and Wok and Roll).

His restaurant has tradition at its heart. Most of the dishes take their cues
from Ismail's childhood -- the kampung, or village, fare he ate and was taught
to cook by his grandparents.

After a lengthy chat, Ismail departs for his local mosque for prayers and I take
a seat for lunch at one of the many tables in the covered alfresco area at the
front of the building.

This expansive space is where Rebung's daily lunch and dinner buffets are
displayed. A la carte meals are available but the bountiful smorgasbord is what
people come for.

Bains-marie are full of curries and soups; there are platters of salads and
vegetables, rice of every description and pots of spicy sambal relish. At one
station a woman is busily cooking fish, nearby another staff member shapes roti.
Multi-tiered arrangements of sweets have their own space in the adjacent indoor
dining room.

I'm a little intimidated by the diversity but take a ``scoop of this, scoop of
that'' approach and fill my plate with duck egg curry, grilled fish with
tamarind dip, smoked beef in thick coconut milk gravy, stingray in hot and sour
sauce, and a side dish of gado gado.

I also take a stab at sampling one of the house's most popular dishes, snails in
coconut milk and saffron powder, but give up after several unsuccessful attempts
to coax these tightly-wedged critters out of their shells.

For sweets, it has to be cendol, a melange of shaved ice, coconut milk, sweet
red beans and green pea flour jelly strips topped with palm sugar syrup.
Alternatively, there's sticky rice with durian sauce, sweet potato doughnuts and
even green peas in coconut milk and palm sugar.

You would be hard-pressed to find a better place to immerse yourself in
Malaysia's diverse cuisine than this quirky neighbourhood restaurant.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Michelle Rowe was a guest of Tourism Malaysia and AirAsia X.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Checklist

Restoran Rebung Chef Ismail, 4-2 Loron Maarof, Bangsar Park, Kuala Lumpur; open
11am-11pm daily. Lunch buffet, MYR40 ($13); dinner, MYR50.

More: rebung.com.my.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                               September 13, 2009

China comes down hard on syringe attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N16

LENGTH: 225 words


A court in China's Xinjiang province has sentenced three people to up to 15
years in jail in the first trials over a series of syringe attacks.

The court did not give the defendants' ethnicity but their names suggest they
are from the Muslim Uighur minority.

The syringe attacks have raised tension in a long-standing conflict between the
Uighur and Han communities.

Xinjiang saw ethnic riots in July and thousands have protested in Urumqi, the
main city, over the syringe attacks.

The authorities in Xinjiang were last week said to be holding 12 suspects in
relation to the attacks.

The defendant who was given the longest sentence by the court was named as
Yilipan Yilihamu.

The 19-year-old was jailed for 15 years for stabbing a woman in the buttock at a
fruit stall, the official Xinhua news agency said.

Muhutaerjiang Turdi, 34, and a 22-year-old woman, Aimannisha Guli, were given
sentences of 10 and seven years respectively.

They were convicted of threatening a taxi driver with a syringe and stealing 710
yuan (EUR71) from him.

The Chinese government has been struggling to restore calm in Xinjiang since the
July riots, the worst ethnic unrest in the country for decades.

The violence began on 5 July when an initially peaceful protest by Uighur
youths, apparently prompted by an earlier riot in a factory in southern China,
spiralled out of control.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

China race violence worsens as at least 150 reported dead

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 525 words


Mobs of thugs roamed the streets attacking the vulnerable in Xinjiang's capital
yesterday as riots that left more than 150 people dead degenerated into communal
violence.

Members of the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic group attacked people near the
railway station in Urumqi, capital of north-west China's Uighir Autonomous
Region in Xinjiang province.

Meanwhile a mob of 1,000 mostly young Han Chinese holding clubs and chanting
"Defend the country" tore through streets trying to get to a Uighur district
until they were repulsed by police firing teargas.

Panic and anger bubbled up amid the suspicion. In some areas, Han Chinese -
China's majority ethnic group - armed themselves with pieces of wood and
shovels.

People bought up bottled water out of fear, as one resident said, that "the
Uighurs might poison the water".

The outbursts happened despite a curfew and swarms of paramilitary and riot
police arresting more than 1,400 participants in Sunday's riot, the worst ethnic
violence in the often tense region in decades.

Trying to control the message, the government has slowed mobile phone and
internet services, blocked Twitter - whose servers are overseas - and censored
Chinese social networking and news sites and accused Uighurs living in exile of
inciting Sunday's riot.

State media coverage, however, carried graphic footage and pictures of the
unrest - showing mainly Han Chinese victims and stoking the anger.

The violence is a further embarrassment for a Chinese leadership preparing for
the 60th anniversary of communist rule in October and calling for the creation
of a "harmonious society" to celebrate.

Years of rapid development have failed to smooth over the ethnic fault lines in
Xinjiang, where the Uighurs have watched growing numbers of Han Chinese move in.

Wang Lequan, Xinjiang's Communist Party secretary, declared a curfew in all but
name, imposing traffic restrictions and ordering people off the streets
overnight "to avoid further chaos".

"It is needed for the overall situation. I hope people pay great attention and
act immediately," he said in an announcement broadcast on Xinjiang television.

According to the Associated Press, Sunday's riot started as a peaceful
demonstration by Uighurs over a deadly fight at a factory in eastern China
between Han Chinese and Uighur workers.

It then spiralled out of control, as mainly Uighur groups beat people and set
fire to vehicles and shops belonging to Han Chinese.

After retreating from the teargas, some among the Han Chinese mob were met by
Urumqi's Communist Party leader Li Zhi, who climbed on a police vehicle and
started chanting with the crowd.

Li urged the crowd to strike down Rebiya Kadeer, a 62-year-old Uighur leader
exiled in the United States whom Chinese leaders accuse of being behind the
riots.

Yesterday about 200 people, mostly women in traditional headscarves, took to the
streets, wailing for the release of their sons and husbands in the crackdown and
confronting lines of riot police.

The protesters briefly scuffled with paramilitary police, who pushed them back
before both sides retreated.

The official Xinhua News Agency said that 1,434 suspects had been arrested.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Syringe attacks prompt protests in China

BYLINE: Canwest News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 545  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


A spate of random stabbings using syringes has sparked a new round of mass
demonstrations in China's restive Xinjiang region and prompted calls for the
resignation of the area's Communist party chief.

"Resign Wang Lequan. The government is useless," protesters yelled in the
regional capital Urumqi, the scene of 197 deaths and about 1,700 injuries during
ethnic riots in early June.

At least 2,000 people gathered near central People's Square on Thursday to
demand better police protection after at least 400 unexplained syringe stabbings
reignited widespread fear that had only just begun to subside two months after
the deadly riots.

The official news agency Xinhua also reported two other large demonstrations
near the city's major market buildings that it said started mid-morning after a
five-year-old girl was attacked with a needle.

Many of the nearby market shops were locked up tight throughout the protests,
likely fearing a repeat of the looting and burning they suffered in June, but
Xinhua insisted it was because the owners "feared there would not be much
business during the day."

The new agency made a point of noting that "members of the Uyghur ethnic group
were also among the protesting crowds," but not all the eyewitnesses agreed.

Mu Dianping, a Han Chinese who teaches at the Xinjiang Arts Institute, said in a
telephone interview that the protesters in central Urumqi that he saw on his way
to school in late afternoon "were all Han Chinese."

"They were not from other ethnic groups," he said.

Mu said armed police were evident everywhere in the downtown area and that
martial law was imposed soon after he arrived at school and no one was allowed
to leave.

Mu called the situation "quite tense," but said he did not see any violence nor
had he heard of any beyond the needle stabbings.

The riots in June pitted young Uyghurs, Muslims of Turkic extraction, against
Han Chinese, the majority group in China, and left a legacy of deep distrust in
the city they share with a myriad of small ethnic groups. Likely because of
that, no one has yet confirmed whether it is Uyghurs who are responsible for
this week's syringe stabbings.

Xinhua said 15 people were detained and four arrested in connection with the
attacks, but it did not say what ethnic group they belonged to.

It reported, however, that Zhu Hailun, head of the Political and Legal Affairs
Commission of the Xinjiang Communist Party, said the stabbing victims came from
nine different ethnic groups, including Han Chinese, Uyghur, Hui, Kazak and
Mongolian.

At least 475 people - mostly Han Chinese - have been stabbed so far, according
to Xinhua, but some reports say up to 1,000 people have been jabbed with
syringes and that many did not even know it until the perpetrators ran away.

The deputy director of the Xinjiang Health Department said no one has been
infected by the needle attacks.

The riots in June erupted when a peaceful demonstration by young Uyghurs
protesting the death of one of their brothers during a brawl with Han workers at
a south China factory ran into heavy police resistance and turned ugly. The mob
went on a rampage against the Han Chinese community. It took two days, for the
Han to retaliate, but the police were ready for them and their revenge attacks
were short-lived.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Prince Rupert Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                Guardian Weekly

                             August 7, 2009 Friday

Guardian Weekly: International news: Uighur leader claims 10,000 'disappeared'
in Xinjiang

BYLINE: Justin McCurry, Tokyo and Tania Branigan, Beijing

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 399 words


Rebiya Kadeer, the exiled Uighur leader, has claimed that almost 10,000 Uighurs
"disappeared" during unrest in China's north-west region of Xinjiang last month.

Speaking in Japan, Kadeer said Chinese authorities used undercover snatch squads
to target Uighurs during clashes with Han Chinese in the city of Urumqi. "Almost
10,000 people attending the protests in Urumqi disappeared in one night," said
Kadeer, president of the pro-independence World Uighur Congress. "Where did they
go? If they died, where are their bodies?" It was unclear where she sourced her
numbers.

The state news agency, Xinhua, said authorities in western China had arrested
253 more people, in addition to 1,434 detained earlier over suspected
involvement in the 5 July riot.

China has accused Kadeer, 62, of inciting the riots and warned Japan that her
visit there could damage bilateral ties. China also lodged a complaint with
Australia, where Kadeer is due to give a televised speech this month, following
the screening of a documentary about her life at the Melbourne international
film festival.

Chinese police have detained a

leading human rights lawyer, Xu Zhiyong, in a dawn raid, less than a fortnight
after the pioneering legal centre he had helped found was shut. There is concern
internationally about pressure on activist lawyers in China; more than 50
advocates known for taking sensitive cases had their licences revoked. Others
have been detained and harassed for their work.

New York-based Human Rights Watch said that it was "gravely concerned" about Xu.
That concern is due to the Chinese government's punitive approach to individuals
such as Xu "who are in the vanguard of China's domestic human rights movement",
said its Asia researcher, Phelim Kine.

But Zhang Jun, vice-president of the supreme people's court, has said that China
will reduce the number of people it executes and impose more suspended death
sentences.

Zhang said judicial departments should use the least number of death sentences
possible, and that death penalties should not be given to those having a reason
for not being executed. He said the death penalty should be applied to "an
extremely small number" of serious offenders, but offered no figures for current
execution rates or reduction targets. China is believed to be the world's most
prolific executioner, with at least 7,000 sentenced to death and 1,718 executed
last year.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Mac Planet: Life"s a riot at Apple manufacturer

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 1159 words


After the initial reports of the riot at an Apple assembling factory in China,
did you think it all went quiet on the story? I did, because I read lots of
Apple sites every day. They almost all stopped reporting on it.

Of course, the new iPhone 5 came out around the same time, and that took the
attention of the Apple watch sites. Luckily, other more general news agencies
carried on reporting.

The campus where the riot occurred is used by 79,000 workers in Taiyuan, in the
northern Shanxi province of China. There was considerable damage caused by a
September 23rd clash between labourers from different provinces that left more
than 40 people in hospital, and some say up to 10 deaths (Foxconn denied any
fatalities). Investigators have since tried to determine the cause of the riot
that had to be quelled by hundreds of security guards and police.

Security teams wearing riot helmets and wielding plastic shields marched around
the Foxconn Technology Group factory the following day, after Foxconn had
suspended production.

Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou has taken some moves in recent years to improve
conditions at his factories after a spate of suicides and pressure from the
company"s largest customer: Apple Inc. But changes still haven"t reached smaller
locations such as Taiyuan, workers reportedly said, citing inferior food, poor
sanitation and overcrowded dorms plus security guards who were young, poorly
trained and too aggressive. Some said a guard struck a worker on the Sunday just
before the riots broke out.

However, Foxconn officially downplayed the violence as an "incident" and a
"personal dispute" despite the large number of workers involved, the extensive
damage and the dozens of injuries that resulted, not to mention the suspension
of work.

Terry Gou is the chairman of Foxconn"s parent company Hon Hai, which he founded
in 1974. It"s a bit hard to take any assurances by Gou as very, well, reassuring
when he reportedly compared the workers at his company to "animals" at the turn
of this year.

According to the report from Want China Times, Gou said "Hon Hai has a workforce
of over one million worldwide and as human beings are also animals, to manage
one million animals gives me a headache." Gou compounded what was later claimed
to be a "mistranslation" by inviting the director of the Taipei Zoo to give a
lecture to the executives assembled at the 2011 year-end meeting on "how to
manage animals".

Before that, it was reported that Foxconn"s extremely cynical move to curb
suicides from its buildings" upper floors was to put up nets to catch anyone
jumping. What a guy.

All I can say is, keep the pressure up. I personally feel very uneasy buying
products tainted by third world labour conditions at supposedly super-high-tech
factories. And before you aim all your guns at Apple, what are Samsung factories
like? New York-based China Labour Watch said it had evidence of long working
hours, under-age workers and poor conditions in eight Samsung factories, as
reported by the BBC and other agencies. Six of the eight factories were
Samsung-owned and two were suppliers to the company. Unlike Apple, Samsung had
not (by September 6th) agreed to checks from independent third-parties.

Apple seemingly paid a lot more attention to ecological concerns once Greenpeace
had a serious go at them. White plastic disappeared from the Mac range, among
other changes to aid recycling, and recently Apple has been adding solar panels
to its power-sucking server farm.

Apple CEO Tim Cook took the step of actually going to a Foxconn plant to see
what was going on for himself. Indeed, Foxconn is increasingly sensitive to the
issue ... or at last to the criticism. A statement recently said the company
will "ensure its duties relating to employee welfare are implemented and it will
make overtime payments as promised," according to a Digitimes report. Overtime
was one of the serious issues workers had at the Taiyuan plant.

The New York Times has more information about other labour unrest in China with
many protests appearing related to the country"s gradual economic slowdown.
Employees are demanding the payment of overdue wages from financially struggling
companies, or insisting on compensation when money-losing factories in coastal
provinces are closed and moved to lower-cost cities in the interior. As they
should.

Of course, China is in the rather bizarre position of having a command economy
based on a "workers" rights" philosophy while simultaneously embracing
capitalist production techniques and the profits reaped.

Foxconn must be conscious of going too far and seriously upsetting its most
high-profile client. For sure, it should be noted that Foxconn does not solely
build Apple products; it"s also is a key supplier to Dell, Hewlett-Packard and
Microsoft.

Tellingly, Foxconn stated the riot shouldn"t affect shipments for "the latest
smartphone product" since Taiyuan does not do any product assembly. An employee
at the Taiyuan plant, however, said that iPhone components were made there -
most Apple-related production appears to takes place in other parts of China,
particularly in the Sichuan and Henan provinces.

The Shanghai Evening Post also begged to differ. The Post sent a reporter into
the Foxconn factory in Taiyuan to pretend he was a new worker some time before
the riot. His 10-day experience at the factory was then published as a diary.

The Taiyuan factory was already known for a workers" strike in March, in
addition to needing 20,000 extra workers to fulfill orders from Apple for the
new iPhone 5.

The SEP reporter went through an extensive seven-day orientation, which included
a form that all workers had to sign stating there are no environmental hazards.
He began to work on the production line for the iPhone 5 on day eight but was
only able to hang in two more days due to the conditions.

To its credit, the Apple fan site Cult of Mac passed this on, including excerpts
such as "...After such repeat action for several hours, I have terrible neckache
and muscle pain on my arm ... We worked non-stop from midnight to the next
morning 6am but were still asked to keep on working as the production line is
based on running belt and no one is allowed to stop. I"m so starving and fully
exhausted."

The reporter calculates he had to mark five iPhone 5 back plates every minute,
minimum, non-stop for his entire shift. His goal was 3000 iPhone 5 back plates
every five hours.

"The supervisor shouted out loud in front of us: "Who wants to rest early at
5am!? We are all here to earn money! Let"s work harder!" I was thinking who on
earth wants to work two extra hours overtime for only a mere 27 yuan (USD$4)!?"
Not me.

Apple has, so far, not commented on the Taiyuan riot. But while it might sound
like a massive alteration for Apple to make, considering the financial resources
the company has, changing assembler is simply not the same challenge it would be
for many.

Foxconn, you"d better do something.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                            January 26, 2014 Sunday

12 terrorists dead in Xinjiang riot

BYLINE: Globaltimes.cn

LENGTH: 1691  words


Latest News
12 terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack
Police in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region on Friday shot
dead six attackers, while another six died in an explosion, local authorities
revealed Saturday.
Details
Attack: two explosions
First explosion: a group of terrorist suspects threw explosives at police, who
were making arrests, and police opened fire and gunned down six
Second explosion: six other suspects were killed later in an explosion they set
off themselves in their vehicle when they were surrounded by police

Location: a beauty salon and a grocery market in Xinhe county, Aksu prefecture,
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
Time: around 6:40 pm January 24
Terrorist suspects: 12 dead, five arrested
Injured: one police officer was slightly injured
Public: no casualties were reported
Background: Xinhe county is an old town located in southern Xinjiang and is home
to 15 ethnic minorities including Uyghur and Kazak.


Source:ts.cn
Commentary
Global Times:
12 terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack
Li Wei, an anti-terrorism expert with the China Institutes of Contemporary
International Relations, told the Global Times that China is facing a tougher
anti-terrorism challenge as the scale and frequency of attacks have been
escalating.
However, Li emphasized that terrorist attacks in Xinjiang are not a problem that
is endemic to the region, as almost every attack that took place there recently
was linked to overseas influences.
"The increasing terrorist activities around the region, and even on a global
scale, have made terrorist members of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM)
more active," said Li. He noted that the group has had more frequent exchanges
of personnel and arms, and is holding exercises under real combat conditions.
"The border incident is highly threatening and authorities need to pay close
attention to the identities of the attackers," said Li, adding that terrorist
activities around Chinese borders are shifting from South Asia to Central Asia,
which is a springboard for entering Xinjiang.
Global Times (Chinese edition):
Xu Jianying, fellow at the Research Center for Chinese Borderland History and
Geography, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences

Both temporary and fundamental solutions are necessary in order to properly
respond to the new threats posed by the "East Turkistan" terrorists.
In order to achieve long-term stability through development in the Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region, a strategic plan devoted to the land reclamation and
demographic changes in southern Xinjiang must be developed.
Such measures would help to improve integration of politics, economy and culture
between Xinjiang and inland regions, as well as promote exchange between ethnic
groups. It is also necessary to create an employment platform to further
facilitate exchange.
The military corps should continue to maintain stability and development in the
new era.
Grassroots efforts should also be made to raise awareness among all ethnic
groups to the dangers of religious extremism. Specialized counter-terrorism
forces should be strengthened with more international cooperation and exchange
of intelligence.
Whether in government agencies or public places, counter-terrorism awareness
reduces loss through precaution.
Anti-terrorism efforts
Transparent information
We call on local authorities in Xinjiang and relevant central departments to
inform the public more about the details of the incidents, and further allow
real public feelings to be released.
Ethnic solidarity
Yu Zhengsheng, China's top political advisor, called for greater efforts in
improving people's living conditions and promoting ethnic solidarity and social
harmony.
At the moment, while decisively fighting against terrorists, we must encourage
local police, unite people from different ethnic groups, and boost their
confidence that the macro situation in Xinjiang is stable and under control.
We call on Xinjiang residents from various ethnic groups to stay safe and work
with local police.
Political strategy
China has been strengthening its strategic power. The geopolitical network
surrounding Xinjiang is almost unbreakable.
Strike
China will impose severe punishment on those taking part in violent crimes.
Armed police in Xinjiang:
24-hour patrol on all weather conditions,
cooperate with local public security organs,

precautionary and preemptive measures
Resisting force abroad
China hopes the United States will avoid using a double standard when discussing
terrorism.
Western public opinion, standing upon Western interest, may make use of the
incidents to try to fan the flames of trouble. We should ignore those noises.

Cooperation
China's national legislature adopted two pacts on anti-terrorism cooperation
among Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) members:
on the procedures of organizing joint anti-terrorism drills among SCO members;

on the procedures of carrying out joint anti-terrorism actions in the territory
of SCO members
Xinjiang riots
(2009-2014)
Time
Location
Riot
2009
7/5
Urumqi
Six sentenced to death over Xinjiang riot
Six men who were convicted of murder and other crimes in the July 5 riot in
Xinjiang were sentenced Monday to death after a first-instance trial, and
another man was jailed for life.
Riots in Urumqi occured on July 5 left 197 people dead and more than 1,600
injured.
2011
7/30
Kashi
Police kill 4 suspects in Xinjiang city
Four suspects were shot dead by police in the city of Kashi in Xinjiang Sunday
afternoon.
Four others were caught, while police are hunting for the rest four following an
eruption of violence at 4:30 pm, in which more than 10 pedestrians and police
officers had been found injured.
12/28
Pishan
Police shoot dead 7 terrorists in Xinjiang
A group of "violent terrorists" kidnapped two hostages in the southern
mountainous areas of Pishan county, Hotan Prefecture, at around 11 pm Wednesday.
Police opened fire after the kidnappers resisted, killing seven of them,
injuring four and detaining another four, the regional government said.
One police officer was killed and another was injured. The two hostages were
rescued successfully.

2012
2/28
Kashi
Xinjiang to get tougher on terrorists
A group of assailants with knives went on a killing spree on Xingfu Walking
Street in Yecheng county of Kashi. Fifteen civilians were hacked to death and a
further 14 were injured.
6/29
Hotan
Xinjiang hijackers get death
Six people tried to hijack Tianjin Airlines' flight GS7554 after it took off
from Hotan Airport, 1,400 kilometers away from its destination, the regional
capital Urumqi.
Twenty-four crew members and passengers were injured in the incident, which
caused direct economic losses of 28.58 million yuan ($4.58 million).
2013
3/7
Korla
Knife-wielder killing 5 arrested in Xinjiang
Police had arrested a farmer who is suspected of having killed five people in
Xinjiang.
The 27-year-old male suspect killed five people and injured seven others outside
a supermarket in Korla city around 3 pm on March 7.
4/23
Bachu
Xinjiang terror spree kills 21
Police in Kashi, Xinjiang have stopped a terrorist attack, in which 21 people
including six terrorists were killed.
The attack in Serikbuya town, Bachu county, took place at 1:30 pm Tuesday, local
news portal ts.cn first reported.
6/26
Lukqun
Riot kills 27 in Xinjiang
A riot in a town in Xinjiang  killed 27 people, including 10 rioters on June 26,
several days ahead of the anniversary of deadly riots in the region's capital in
2009.
6/28
Hotan
New round of riots brings fresh violence to Xinjiang
A riot occurred at noon Friday in Hotan, Xinjiang, with over 100 terrorists
attacking a number of people with weapons after gathering at local religious
venues. The casualties are still being counted. Later Friday local government
website www.ts.cn confirmed the riot in Hotan.
8/20
Kashi
Govt sets up national anti-terror team
A terrorist attack occurred on August 20 in Kashi, Xinjiang, in which a
policeman died in action against a violent terrorist group, according to a
report by People's Daily Online.

11/16
Bachu
Xinjiang police attack under investigation
Police said 11 people were killed in an assault on a police station on Saturday
afternoon in Xinjiang.
Nine attackers, armed with knives and axes, were shot dead during the attack in
Serikbuya, Bachu county in Kashi prefecture, some 1,200 kilometers southwest
from the regional capital Urumqi. Two employees working with local police were
killed and another two were injured, the Xinhua News Agency reported on
Saturday, citing local police.
12/15
Shufu
Six held after Xinjiang attack
Local police in a township near Kashi, Xinjiang, have detained six suspects who
were involved in a terrorist attack on Sunday, which killed 16 people, including
two police officers and 14 attackers.
The incident, which was "organized and premeditated," took place in Sayibage
township of Shufu county, administered by Kashi in western Xinjiang, according
to local news portal ts.cn.
12/30
Kashi
8 dead in Xinjiang terror attack
Eight terrorists were shot dead and another captured by police during a
terrorist attack early Monday morning in Xinjiang, the Xinjiang government
announced on its official website ts.cn.
The nine terrorists attacked a police station at around 6 am in Shache county in
the Kashi of Xinjiang. They wielded knives, threw explosives and set police cars
on fire.
2014
1/24
Xinhe
12 terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack
Police in Xinjiang on Friday shot dead six attackers, while another six died in
an explosion, local authorities revealed Saturday.
Timeline of the riots in Xinjiang before 2009
Related News
Uygur teacher involved in separatist activities: Xinjiang police
Kyrgyzstan kills 11 suspected Xinjiang separatists
11 militants killed by Kyrgyz troops near border with China
China's police chief pledges to act on terrorism Copyright Global Times.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2014 Global Times.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

FM urges Hanoi not to aggravate friction

BYLINE: Chang Meng

LENGTH: 974  words


Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi Wednesday urged Vietnam not to attempt to
further complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction, after thousands
of Vietnamese protesters set foreign-owned factories ablaze in the country's
south to protest China's oil drilling in the South China Sea.Wang made the
remarks during a phone conversation with his Indonesian counterpart Marty
Natalegawa. "China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights
and interests is firm and clear and will not change," he said, according to the
foreign ministry website.Haiyang Shiyou 981, a China National Offshore Oil
Corporation owned oil drilling rig, has been operating in waters 17 nautical
miles south of Zhongjian Island, part of the Xisha Islands, from May 2. The
operation will continue until August 15. Vietnam sent 36 vessels that rammed
Chinese vessels 171 times in five days from May 3 to 7, Yi Xianliang, deputy
director-general of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs at the foreign
ministry, revealed last week.Wang called the ramming "barbaric" and said the
violent disruptions are why the situation has become tense. He noted that China
and Vietnam were conducting necessary communication on the current
situation.According to Wang, normal oil drilling activities by the Chinese
company had already started in the Xisha Islands and its contiguous zone 10
years ago.The drilling operation is in the waters of the Xisha Islands, over
which China has complete sovereignty, said Zhou Hongjun, a professor of
international law at the East China University of Politics and Law in Shanghai.

"It is not a 'disputed area' as it was taken back in the 1974 Battle of the
Xisha Islands from then Republic of South Vietnam," he told the Global
Times.Zhou noted that Vietnam's claim has no legal grounds and China should
insist on its firm standings to protect its sovereignty and jurisdiction.Mild
protests in industrial zones of the southern Vietnamese provinces of Binh Duong
and Dong Nai escalated into riots on Tuesday. Protesters rampaged in the zones
packed with foreign factories, set them on fire and looted many, targeting
specifically Chinese ones. Tran Van Nam, vice chairman of the Binh Duong
People's Committee, told the local VNExpress online newspaper Wednesday that
extremists provoked the crowd, which caused the closure of more than 1,000
factories while 15 were burnt down.Nam said around 19,000 workers joined the
anti-China protest, and that "the province will strictly handle those who took
advantage of the situation to provoke, disturb and cause damage to assets of
people, companies and the state."Police detained 500 people "caught red-handed
looting, stealing and setting fire to factories," Le Xuan Truong of the Binh
Duong police told AFP.The Chinese Embassy to Vietnam issued safety alerts to
Chinese citizens and companies on Tuesday, telling them to refrain from
unnecessary outings and it also launched emergency security measures. Huang
Xuejuan, a secretary of the Chinese Business Association in Ho Chi Minh City,
which coordinates businesses in the south, told the Global Times Wednesday that
a dozen Chinese companies in the Binh Duong industrial zones were affected."Some
Chinese have flown back to China, some went to Cambodia. A number of companies
suspended operations today," said Huang.Chinese kitchen appliance giant Supor
said employees and factories at its Binh Duong base are safe and the company had
taken immediate measures under the instruction of the consulate, Li Hui, a press
officer from Supor, told the Global Times via e-mail.In addition to companies
from the Chinese mainland, many Taiwan firms also sustained serious damage. Liu
Yu-hsing, secretary-general of the Taiwan Business Association in Ho Chi Minh
City, said that they do not have a figure for their financial losses now, but it
would be huge. "Many protesters rode on motorcycles while waving iron bars or
sticks. They rushed into the offices, destroyed computers, and looted valuable
items," he told the Global Times Wednesday.An employee of a Chinese company, who
requested anonymity, told the Global Times that the protesters smashed the gates
and shop signs of his company while shouting loudly.Both Huang and Liu said
order was mostly restored Wednesday after the embassy and the organizations
requested police intervention. Huang said she still saw protesters on the
streets of Ho Chi Minh City Wednesday, and an increased police presence."I heard
that provinces can deploy the army if similar riots happen again," said Liu.As
the riot was evolving, companies from other countries were also reported to be
influenced. A Singaporean foreign ministry spokesperson said Wednesday that it
requested the Vietnamese government to act immediately to restore law and order
in the Vietnam-Singapore Industrial Parks I and II in Binh Duong.Seoul also
asked Vietnam to ensure the safety of South Korean residents in the regions,
according to South Korea's Yonhap News Agency.The riots marked nadir for
relations between China and Vietnam in the South China Sea, and if the standoff
continues, Vietnam could not bear the consequences as it violated the
Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, said Zhou.AFP said
Hanoi usually tightly controls demonstrations but recently allowed mass rallies
against Beijing.Sun Xiaoying, a professor with the Guangxi Academy of Social
Sciences, told the Global Times that the strong nationalism showcased in the
looting is a result of Vietnam's constant propaganda about its claim to the
islands."Sovereignty claims to the Xisha Islands emerged after Vietnam's
northern and southern part united [in 1976], and it has been taking advantage of
the US Asia pivot strategy in recent years. And China's oil drilling provides an
excuse for Hanoi to provoke tension," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2014 Global Times.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                            April 30, 2014 Wednesday

Catabingo: the game you win when rest of the world loses

BYLINE: Joe Bennett

SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words


Woo hoo, it's time for another game of Catabingo. All you have to do is to
describe the prelude to a global cataclysm. If the future proves you right, you
win.

First prize will be anything you fancy that's left standing: a military arsenal,
a diamond mine, a small charred country, the choice is yours. The winner will be
announced on this page or by whatever media are still functioning. And here, to
give you an idea of the sort of thing, are four entries already received:

Entry 1: Ukraine. A man in face mask and battle fatigues and carrying a
Kalashnikov marked Property of the Soviet Armed Forces - though an attempt has
been made to conceal the word Soviet with a piece of sticking plaster - twists
his ankle while lobbing a Molotov cocktail through the window of the local
government offices in Donetsk. His screams of pain reach the Kremlin. Piggy-eyed
Putin immediately orders 50,000 troops into Eastern Ukraine to defend the
interests of Mother Russia.

The head of the European Union flies to Moscow and returns brandishing a piece
of paper.

"Peace in our time," she announces from the steps of the aeroplane, "and
reasonably cheap gas." Greatly encouraged Putin orders routine military
exercises on the borders of Latvia, Estonia, and, just for the fun of it,
Finland.

Entry 2: China raises its national flag on a rock in the South China Sea, It
then moors one of its exciting new aircraft carriers alongside and invites Japan
to, "bring it on".

Japan appeals to President Obama who issues an ultimatum to the Chinese that
unless they take down their flag and sail away in their aircraft carrier the
United States will be forced to issue an ultimatum.

The Chinese respond politely by asking how the $15 trillion US national debt is
going and whether the US is thinking of borrowing any more money this afternoon
and if so who it is thinking of borrowing it from.

President Obama replies that the United States of America has never yielded to
extortion since the day it broke free from colonial oppression in 1776 and it is
not going to start doing so now, though he'd be grateful if he could have the
pre-ultimatum ultimatum back just for a moment to correct some spelling
mistakes, where upon a secretary misplaces it into a shredder.

Greatly discouraged, the Japanese blow the 70-year-old mothballs off a military
shipyard and a fighter-plane factory.

Greatly encouraged, the Chinese raise their national flag on another rock in the
South China Sea, moor another of their exciting new aircraft carriers alongside
and invite the Philippines, Malaysia and "anyone else who may fancy themselves
as a regional power", to "bring it on".

Entry 3: The Football World Cup (a bit far- fetched, this one, but never forget
that Honduras and El Salvador went to war over a football match in 1969).

Watched by a crowd of 150,000, including such dignitaries as little Prince
George and Vladimir Putin's girlfriend, Brazil lose the opening game to
Guatemala. Brazil has six goals disallowed. The winning goal comes from a
penalty awarded in the last minute by the Colombian referee.

At the final whistle a riot erupts in the stadium and the crowd surges onto the
pitch. The Brazilian riot police surge after them and join the riot. The
dignitaries' stand is set on fire. An attack helicopter belonging to a Colombian
drug cartel and betting syndicate swoops into the stadium to rescue their
referee. An attack helicopter belonging to the Royal Navy swoops into the
stadium to rescue Prince George.

And just as a global television audience of 1.3 billion sees a close-up of
Putin's girlfriend snatching up Prince George and slipping him inside her
astrakhan jacket in a gesture later judged to be either protective or
opportunistic, depending on the nationality of the person doing the judging, the
helicopters collide.

Entry 4. No game of Catabingo is complete without a Middle East meltdown
scenario. The Syrian civil war spills into Lebanon, from Lebanon into Jordan,
and from Jordan into the whole of the Middle East, where it simplifies,
conveniently for puzzled Western newscasters, into Sunni against Shia. If ever
the intensity wanes, covert Israeli forces biff missiles at somewhere sensitive,
confident that they'll hit someone who hates them.

Israel's mistake, however, proves to be their decision to conscript the
ultra-orthodox instead of allowing them to stay at home praying. Few people
believe the Hasidic Artillery commander's later claim that if he'd realised the
significance of the Grand Mosque in Mecca he'd have used a smaller warhead.

Now get those entries coming in. And remember, with Catabingo, it's never too
late until it's too late.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           February 13, 2016 Saturday

Beijing offers support for Hong Kong after violence

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 455 words


Reuters

BEIJING

China's central government firmly supports Hong Kong authorities and police in
safeguarding public order and punishing those who break the law, the foreign
ministry has said in Beijing's first reaction to a riot in Hong Kong earlier
this week.

Sixty-four people have been arrested in connection with the violence on Monday,
the first day of the Lunar New Year holiday.

Protesters hurled bricks at police and set fire to rubbish bins in Mong Kok, a
tough, working-class neighbourhood just across the harbour from the heart of the
Asian financial centre.

China's foreign ministry said in a statement late on Thursday that Hong Kong was
a society governed by the rule of law.

"The Chinese central government believes and firmly supports the Hong Kong
government and the police in safeguarding social security, protecting Hong Kong
residents and their property, and punishing illegal and criminal activities in
accordance with the law," the statement said.

Police fired two warning shots into the air, almost unheard of in the former
British colony that reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 and is considered one of
Asia's safest cities. More than 130 people were wounded in the clashes.

The violence has compounded a sense of unease since an "Occupy Central"
pro-democracy movement in late 2014 that saw thousands of protesters block major
roads, including in Mong Kok, to demand Beijing's Communist leaders allow full
democracy in the city.

Thirty-seven people were charged on Thursday with participating in a "riot".
Three more appeared in court yesterday, including a 15-year-old. Outside the
courthouse, several supporters of the defendants scuffled with a small group of
men who held up banners denouncing Monday's violence.

Hong Kong's Justice Secretary Rimsky Yuen said the riot charge, rarely used in
Hong Kong, was levelled because of wha the called the seriousness of the
incident. He also said it was a "big test" of the rule of law in the financial
hub.

"I think everyone would agree that unlawful violence would not be the
appropriate way to express one's political demands and one's political motives,"
Yuen told reporters.

He said authorities would consider pressing more charges incoming weeks after
examining more evidence.

At least one of those charged in connection with the riot belongs to a group
called Hong Kong Indigenous, one of a cluster of outspoken groups calling for
greater Hong Kong autonomy and even independence from China, the group said.

China's Foreign Ministry said the riot was "plotted mainly by a local radical
separatist organisation".

"The violence quickly subsided as the police took effective measures in a
professional manner with restraint and in accordance with the law," the
statement said.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           February 13, 2016 Saturday

Beijing offers support for Hong Kong after violence

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 455 words


Reuters

BEIJING

China's central government firmly supports Hong Kong authorities and police in
safeguarding public order and punishing those who break the law, the foreign
ministry has said in Beijing's first reaction to a riot in Hong Kong earlier
this week.

Sixty-four people have been arrested in connection with the violence on Monday,
the first day of the Lunar New Year holiday.

Protesters hurled bricks at police and set fire to rubbish bins in Mong Kok, a
tough, working-class neighbourhood just across the harbour from the heart of the
Asian financial centre.

China's foreign ministry said in a statement late on Thursday that Hong Kong was
a society governed by the rule of law.

"The Chinese central government believes and firmly supports the Hong Kong
government and the police in safeguarding social security, protecting Hong Kong
residents and their property, and punishing illegal and criminal activities in
accordance with the law," the statement said.

Police fired two warning shots into the air, almost unheard of in the former
British colony that reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 and is considered one of
Asia's safest cities. More than 130 people were wounded in the clashes.

The violence has compounded a sense of unease since an "Occupy Central"
pro-democracy movement in late 2014 that saw thousands of protesters block major
roads, including in Mong Kok, to demand Beijing's Communist leaders allow full
democracy in the city.

Thirty-seven people were charged on Thursday with participating in a "riot".
Three more appeared in court yesterday, including a 15-year-old. Outside the
courthouse, several supporters of the defendants scuffled with a small group of
men who held up banners denouncing Monday's violence.

Hong Kong's Justice Secretary Rimsky Yuen said the riot charge, rarely used in
Hong Kong, was levelled because of wha the called the seriousness of the
incident. He also said it was a "big test" of the rule of law in the financial
hub.

"I think everyone would agree that unlawful violence would not be the
appropriate way to express one's political demands and one's political motives,"
Yuen told reporters.

He said authorities would consider pressing more charges incoming weeks after
examining more evidence.

At least one of those charged in connection with the riot belongs to a group
called Hong Kong Indigenous, one of a cluster of outspoken groups calling for
greater Hong Kong autonomy and even independence from China, the group said.

China's Foreign Ministry said the riot was "plotted mainly by a local radical
separatist organisation".

"The violence quickly subsided as the police took effective measures in a
professional manner with restraint and in accordance with the law," the
statement said.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 10, 2009 Friday

China promises to hunt down riot 'criminals'

BYLINE: Peter Foster in Urumqi and Malcolm Moore in Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 604  words


THE Chinese president has promised to "severely punish'' those responsible for
riots in Urumqi that left 156 people dead as police began rounding up alleged
ringleaders yesterday.

Hu Jintao, who abandoned the G8 summit in Italy to deal with the situation in
China's far western province of Xinjiang, said after a meeting with the
Politburo that the unrest was a "severe violent criminal event''.

More than 1,400 people have already been arrested in connection with the riots,
but the authorities stepped up the hunt for those responsible yesterday, putting
up notices across the city urging rioters to turn themselves in.

The notices, written in Chinese and Uighur, said that those who hid or protected
"criminals'' would also be punished.

In Beijing, a prominent university professor was detained for "just posting
reports on his blog'', according to Reporters without Borders, an organisation
promoting free speech.

Nur Bekri, the governor of Xinjiang, went on national television to accuse Ilham
Tohti, an ethnic Uighur, of fomenting the riots on his blog. The professor
subsequently disappeared from his home in the capital. It is believed he has
been arrested

The local government in Xinjiang has said it will execute the instigators of the
clashes between local Uighur Muslims and members of China's Han ethnic majority,
which began on Sunday. Li Zhi, the Communist Party secretary in the city, said
that many people suspected of inciting riots had now been arrested, including
some students.

The Politburo emphasised that "foreign forces'' were responsible for inciting
the riots. China's foreign ministry has previously accused Rebiya Kadeer, the
62-year-old head of the World Uighur Congress in Washington, of masterminding
the violence and said it had gathered evidence against her. Ms Kadeer denied any
responsibility.

Yesterday, a sense of normality returned to the streets of Urumqi for the first
time since Sunday's violence. Citizens could be seen performing their morning
tai chi exercises in the park and  walking their dogs. Many more shops were open
and office workers began returning to work after a substantial influx of police
on Wednesday quelled the threat of further disorder and revenge attacks.

Neighbourhood committees organised carts full of watermelons for the
paramilitary police as a "thank you'' for their work preventing further major
bloodshed.

Wang Jun, a 55-year-old housewife, who was delivering melons to the police, said
she finally felt safe after four days of tension. She added that she was
optimistic that relations between Han and Uighur communities could be rebuilt.

"I was very angry at first, but as the days have gone by I realise that this is
a temporary emotion that must pass,'' she said. "I think this violence was done
by a small 'separatist' element that do not represent the majority of ordinary
Uighurs who, just like us, also want safety and stability.''

Across the street, a Uighur hotel security guard, Tuoheti, 28, said he also
believed that Han and Uighur could heal the wounds inflicted by the events of
the last four days.

"This has been a terrible time, the riot controls have imposed great
inconvenience on everybody and we're all happy to see stability return.''

Not everyone was satisfied with the police response. Shopkeepers returning to
their businesses for the first time since Sunday expressed anger that the
authorities had not moved more swiftly.

Wang Yu, a 43-year-old shopkeeper, said: "The government and the police could
have stopped this on the first day, but their performance was weak. I have lost
nearly 10,000 yuan ( pounds 920) in these past four days.''

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 29, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'Grandpa Wen' helpless as internet drives wave of unrest in China

BYLINE: Malcolm Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 857 words


WHENEVER China suffers a major disaster, a visit from Wen Jiabao, or "Grandpa
Wen", is usually enough to comfort the victims and reassure the country that its
Communist leaders are looking after them.

So five days after two Chinese bullet trains collided in the south of the
country, killing at least 39 and injuring more than 200, Mr Wen duly arrived at
the scene.

Standing on a patch of gravel yesterday that had been cleared of the wreckage,
the Chinese premier promised to "get to the bottom" of what had gone wrong and
apologised for not arriving sooner, blaming an 11-day illness and doctor's
orders to rest.

In the past, that might have been the end of it. But yesterday, Mr Wen succeeded
only in ratcheting up public anger a notch.

Within hours, photographs of him in seemingly perfect health at various
functions over the past week had been posted on the internet and Mr Wen was
accused of being a liar. His tears at the sites of various disasters over the
years had already earned him the mocking title of China's "Best Actor".

What has changed over the past year is partly the growing inability of China's
leaders to control free speech, both in the traditional media and over the
internet.

Journalists have openly defied instructions from censors not to report on the
train crash and even CCTV, the state broadcaster, has turned on the government.

"Can we live in apartments that do not fall down? Can the roads we drive on in
our cities not collapse? Can we travel in safe trains? And if there is a major
accident, can we not be in a hurry to bury the trains? Can we afford the people
a basic sense of security? China, please slow down.

"If you are too fast, you may leave the souls of your people behind," said Qiu
Qiming, a CCTV news anchor, live on air.

The emergence of Sina Weibo, a clone of the Western website Twitter that allows
200 million Chinese to post their thoughts in real time, has resulted in a
deluge of information the government is finding difficult to control.

"Thousands of web users were posting real eye-witness accounts, photos, videos.
Traditional media, including solid professional outfits as well as the party
media, have been using Weibo to aggregate and share information," said David
Bandurski, a researcher at the China Media Project in Hong Kong.

"Ordinary users, journalists, writers, lawyers, academics, intellectuals, a
broad swathe of people, have been digging out old media coverage that
illuminates these recent events."

Shi Anbin, a professor of media studies at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said
the availability of information on Weibo had helped mainstream media to push the
boundaries and caused the public to lose confidence in the government.

"Weibo is amplifying information the government does not announce. There is
pressure from these grassroots [for the media to be more critical]. CCTV has
heard the message. I think the leadership has acknowledged it too," he said.

For the middle class, there is anger over safety scandals and corruption. "They
have been living in a paradox," said Mr Shi.

"They are told we are the greatest economy and that we are saving the world
after the financial crisis. But they still have to deal with primary level
crises, such as food safety and accidents." For China's workers, the anger stems
from rapidly rising prices, an absurd wealth gap and a constant helplessness
against injustice. In the past week, villagers near Foshan in Guangdong province
attacked and overturned a police car before roping the policemen to the car and
attempting to set it on fire.

In Anshun, Guizhou province, hundreds of rioters fought with police for hours
after a disabled fruit seller was beaten to death by Chinese officials on the
street in broad daylight.

A similar incident, in which a pregnant worker was beaten up by city officials
in Zengcheng, provoked a riot last month.

As it loses the battle to control the population through the media, and through
internet and video surveillance, the government has resorted in recent months to
displays of raw power, sending squadrons of paramilitary police on to the
streets of several cities to prevent riots.

China now spends almost £60billion a year on "internal security", more than on
the People's Liberation Army.

But it has not been able to stop the number of riots from tripling in the past
five years to 180,000 in 2011 - or 493 a day - according to a professor at
Tsinghua University.

So far, there is no indication that the bubbling public anger of the past few
weeks is a threat to the Communist Party. But Beijing is jittery about the
prospect of an Arab Spring, and anxious enough that it detained hundreds of
lawyers and activists in February.

"It is much too early [to tell whether the public anger will force a fundamental
change]," said Mr Bandurski. "Let's not forget the episode of SARS and Sun
Zhigang in 2003.

Reporting on the beating to death of young Sun Zhigang rallied public anger and
eventually brought the repeal of China's law on detention and repatriation. Once
the storm had passed, party leaders disciplined 10 media that had been among the
most outspoken, signalling the time for boldness was over."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise: Wen Jiabao pledges an inquiry into the train crash that
killed at least 39 people five days ago, but questions were raised over how long
it took him to visit the scene; injured protesters in Anshun; armed officers try
to rescue hostages at a police station in Hotan; police are attacked and tied to
their vehicle in the village of Foshan
AP/REUTERS/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             May 23, 2015 Saturday

SECTION: NEWS; Nws_Day_by_Day; What You Liked; Pg.2

LENGTH: 235 words

Most read on SCMP.com this week

               HONG KONG

A 12-year-old boy who had lived in Hong Kong for nine years without
documentation was given temporary papers to stay, while his grandmother was
arrested for helping him breach conditions of stay.

               BLOG

Something is grotesquely awry with Vancouver's housing market. Fuelled by
Chinese wealth, property has decoupled from the local economy with an average
detached house now costing HK$8.9 million.

               OPINION

In the nearly two decades since Hong Kong's handover to Chinese sovereignty, the
government has systematically ignored and undermined the use of English.

               HONG KONG

It's time to step out of our comfort zone and overcome our lack of confidence
and obsession with politics so Hong Kong can progress, says veteran educator.

               CHINA

China's air force sent a group of strategic bombers through the Miyako Strait
south of Okinawa in a long-range drill for the first time as part of military
exercises in the western Pacific.

Featured video of the week

               REMEMBERING THE 1967 RIOTS

Lau Man-shing was one of the 52 prisoners detained in the former Victoria Road
Detention Centre during the 1967  riots. The 86-year-old recalls his detention
during the city's worst riots. Visit scmp.com/leftist

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

SECTION: To The Point; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 189 words


U.S. to Iran: Release Americans

The White House called on Iran to release 3 Americans being held on accusations
of espionage, saying they were hiking near the Iraq border and are innocent.
Earlier Mon., a top Iranian prosecutor accused them of espionage, the first
signal that Tehran intends to put them on trial. Iran may be using them as
bargaining chips over stalled talks over its nuclear program.

China executes 9 men over riots

China executed the men, including 8 from the Muslim Uighur minority, for murder
and other crimes during July riots that killed 200 people in the far western
Xinjiang region. The men are the first to be put to death for China's worst
ethnic violence in decades. The unrest began July 5 when Uighurs in the regional
capital attacked Han people, who make up China's dominant ethnicity, only to
face retaliatory attacks 2 days later.

ISRAEL: PM Benjamin Netanyahu called for peace talks to restart immediately,
ahead of a meeting with Pres. Obama. The top Palestinian negotiator said if
Israel doesn't take peacemaking seriously, it will find itself dealing with the
militant Hamas instead of moderates like him.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            Buffalo News (New York)

                            December 18, 2006 Monday
                                CENTRAL EDITION

U.S. ignores abuse of Chinese workers

BYLINE: By Douglas Turner

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When Christmas shoppers peek at the "Made In China" labels on toys, Mattel wants
them to buy with a clear conscience. Like the way members of the House and
Senate turn a blind eye to reports of religious oppression and worker abuse in
the country of origin.

When I asked Fisher-Price Toys, owned by Mattel, about a recent riot at a
Chinese plant where Mattel toys are made, Fisher-Price shunted that and other
questions to Mattel headquarters.

Mattel responded with an e-mail listing a number of purportedly do-good
organizations it joined or helped found in countries like China.

Included in the list are Business for Social Responsibility, Governance Metrics
International, FTSE4Good and Domini 400 Socially Responsible Investment.

The announced goals of these corporate organizations are to create a workers'
paradise. So shining bright, perhaps, that many unemployed American factory
workers might wish to emigrate to Shanghai. Referring to FTSE4Good, Mattel
maintained it is "listed on two of the best respected Socially Responsible
Investment indices, which only include companies that meet their stringent and
specific corporate responsibility standards."

The trouble is that, as noble as these goals sound, it is impossible for any
independent monitor to learn about working conditions unless there is a rumble
at the workplace. Factories in China are run or licensed by the Communist state,
with political minders everywhere. Workers who talk too freely with foreigners
wind up in jail, or worse.

"Mattel is better than some other companies there, but their promises of
corporate responsibility cannot be enforced to the extent [Mattel] says they
are," said Jane Li, a spokeswoman for China Trade Watch, a worker advocacy group
based in New York City. China Trade Watch reported on the riot in July at the
factory making toys for Mattel in Dongguan, a city near Hong Kong. Disney,
McDonald's and Hasbro also buy toys from the plant.

More than 1,000 workers clashed with "security guards and police officers," the
report said, resulting in injuries. Police emerging from riot trucks arrested
dozens of workers.

China Labor Watch said the workers are forced to labor 11 hours a day, six days
a week, with "total overtime of up to 70 hours a month." Chinese "law" says
employees work a 40-hour week, with overtime limited to 36 hours a month.
Workers at the plant, irrespective of reality, get 574 yuan or $72 a month.

Subsistence wages have fueled a staggering increase in Chinese toy imports,
along with China's continued tricks to undervalue its currency.

Alan Tonelson of the private U.S. Business and Industry Council says from 1997
to 2005, U.S. imports of toys and games from China rose from $4.011 billion to
$10.133 billion.

In 1997, Chinese imports were 50.68 percent of the U.S. market. In 2005, they
comprised 76.31 percent of the U.S. market. No 2006 data is available, Tonelson
said.

The AFL-CIO last year asked the Bush White House to investigate repressive
Chinese labor practices. That request was summarily rejected.

A recent House Ethics Committee report reflected on the "willful ignorance" of a
former member's come-ons to male pages. In a holiday mood two weeks ago,
Congress maintained its own "willful ignorance" of the flight of U.S. factory
jobs when it approved favorable trade relations with Communist Vietnam.

And a Christmas season report from China informs that local police in Shanghai
raided a Christian house church on Dec. 9, arresting one of its leaders. This
week a Chinese court will decide whether to release eight Christians arrested
four months ago for resisting authorities who demolished their church near
Hangzhou City.

e-mail: dturner@buffnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Commentary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 The Buffalo News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Tiananmen was China's poll-tax riots says RedKen

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 512 words


KEN Livingstone came under fire again last night after he likened the Tiananmen
Square massacre to the poll tax riots.

At the start of a visit to China yesterday, the London mayor horrified human
rights activists by saying there were parallels between the killing of thousands
of students in Beijing and the 1990 clashes in Trafalgar Square.

Mr Livingstone's trip to China was designed to forge Olympic links between
London, hosts of the 2012 Games, and Beijing, hosts in 2008.

Standing at the site of the bloody crackdown against pro-democracy supporters,
Mr Livingstone said London had its own 'interesting history' on human rights.

He added: 'In the same way that Trafalgar Square has had an interesting history,
not always a peaceful one, there's a very clear parallel.

'We've had some interesting riots in Trafalgar Square I mean, only 20 years ago,
the poll tax riots, and flames licking up.' When it was pointed out that no one
was killed in the poll tax clashes, he added: 'If you go back, you will find
many cases where innocent protesters were hacked to pieces with sabres the
Peterloo Massacre, for example.

There is no such thing as one country with a perfect record.' The 1819 massacre
in Manchester saw 11 killed and 400 injured when local militia attacked radicals
demanding universal suffrage.

The poll tax riots resulted in 400 arrests and 113 injuries including 45 police
officers. But the Chinese Red Cross estimates that as many as 3,000 pro-
democracy supporters were killed in Tiananmen Square in 1989.

The Beijing comments follow a long line of controversial remarks by Mr
Livingstone, including his comparison of a Jewish journalist to a Nazi
concentration camp guard.

Chinese human rights campaigners expressed outrage. Yael Weisc-Rind of the Free
Tibet Campaign, said: 'For the Mayor to make this comparison is very
unfortunate. The Tiananmen-Square massacre was on a scale totally unlike the
poll tax riots.

'China is an authoritarian regime with a small elite exercising power over
people in a very brutal way.' Their anger deepened after Mr Livingstone failed
to raise China's human rights record when he met Beijing mayor Wang Qishan,
despite promising to address the issue.

Liberal Democrat MP Norman Baker, vice chairman of the all-party Tibet Group,
said: 'Perhaps Ken was trying to be polite to his hosts, but there is a big
difference between a protest against a Government measure and the slaughter of
people riddled with machinegun bullets. It was a very distasteful comment.' Mr
Livingstone was criticised last month for comparing U.S.

ambassador Robert Tuttle to a 'chiselling little crook' when embassy staff
refused to pay the Pounds 8 London congestion charge.

The mayor has already been suspended for a month by a public office watchdog the
sanction is on hold pending an appeal after he likened Oliver Finegold, a Jewish
journalist on the London Evening Standard, to a Nazi concentration camp guard.

And he recently told brothers David and Simon Reuben, Jewish developers of Iraqi
descent: 'Go back to Iran and try your luck with the ayatollahs.'

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEN LIVINGSTONE YESTERDAY: 'PARALLEL'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 17, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Tibetans ordered to celebrate end of their 'bad old days'

BYLINE: Tibet Jane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 498 words


Fifty years after the Dalai Lama fled into exile and the local government was
dissolved by the Chinese, Tibet is to celebrate a new holiday: Serfs'
Emancipation Day.

China is eager to improve its international image after a riot in Lhasa last
March resulted in the deployment of the army in many Tibetan regions as the
unrest spread. The new commemoration is meant to remind the world of the feudal
system that had persisted for centuries in Tibet - the Dalai Lama has said that
he would not want to see a return to that era.

The date chosen by the regional government for Tibet's new celebration will be
March 28, with the first commemoration held this year.

Gelek, a Tibetan academic working with the Chinese Government in Beijing,
welcomed the decision, saying that there was already a risk that young Tibetans
no longer knew about the dark days when the Dalai Lama, the monasteries and
aristocrats ruled the region with a rod of iron. "We should have made this
decision half a century ago when democratic reforms were introduced. This comes
not a day too soon."

Some Tibetan scholars showed less enthusiasm for Beijing's attempt to dampen
support for the Dalai Lama in Tibet by focusing attention on the region's feudal
past while highlighting the economic benefits brought by Chinese rule.

The move is likely to anger Tibetans who still revere their exiled god-king -
even half a century after he fled to India. The timing is particularly sensitive
since March is a month filled with anniversaries of previous uprisings -
including last year's riot, and the 1959 rebellion that was finally suppressed
by the army with the deaths of nearly 100,000, according to official Chinese
figures. Many more were jailed for years for their role.

Norbu Dawang, a Tibetan scholar at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in
Beijing, hinted that such a decision should be taken with care.

"This could serve to create an invisible wall, another barrier between Tibetans
and exiled Tibetans." But, he added, if the commemoration meant more visitors to
Tibet, then it could improve understanding of the region.

His words of caution were drowned out by a chorus of support from Tibetan
government officials and other Tibetan academics who may owe their position to
patronage from ethnic

Han Chinese authorities. Tudeng Caiweng, proposing the resolution to the
regional rubber-stamp parliament in Lhasa, said: "The Dalai clique is still
dreaming at all times to restore the system of serfdom, which was a reactionary,
dark, brutal and backward clerical regime."

Invasion and exile

September 1949 China claims Tibet. A military campaign to conquer the territory
begins 1950 September 1951 Thousands of Chinese troops march on Lhasa March 1959
After a widespread rebellion the Dalai Lama leaves Tibet to claim asylum in
India 1989 Dalai Lama awarded the Nobel Peace Prize March 2008 Riots break out
in Lhasa, about 200 people were killed and 1,000 are still believed to be
missing Source: freetibet.org

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Official Chinese photos in 1964 showed Tibetan children of 'serfs and
slaves'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Mayor Ken's great blunder of China ...;
Beijing Visit: He compares Tiananmen to Trafalgar Sq poll tax riots

BYLINE: ROSS LYDALL

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 997 words


KEN LIVINGSTONE compared the poll tax riots in Trafalgar Square to the massacre
of thousands of students in Tiananmen Square on his first day in China.

The Mayor claimed Britain had its own "interesting history" of protesters
clashing with government authorities in an attempt to deflect questions away
from China's poor human rights record.

But he said he planned to raise the 1989 massacre - in which an unknown number
of students died protesting about the lack of civil liberties and slow progress
of reform - when he meets Beijing major Wang Qishan tomorrow.

Mr Livingstone, addressing reporters in Tiananmen Square only hours after
arriving in China, said: "In the same way that Trafalgar Square has had an
interesting history in the past, and not always a peaceful one, there is a very
clear parallel."

Asked by reporters whether the two events were not on an entirely different
scale, he added: "We have had some interesting riots in Trafalgar Square - only
20 years ago the poll tax riots, and the flames licking up. If you go back to
some of the earlier incidents, you will find many occasions when lots of
innocent protesters were hacked to pieces with sabres."

The poll tax riots in 1990 followed a peaceful march by around 70,000 protesters
in London. They resulted in more than 400 arrests, injuries to 113 people
including 45 police, and caused Pounds 400,000 of damage. The riots were
credited with playing a role in the downfall of Margaret Thatcher.

A year earlier, Tiananmen Square - the biggest public square in the world - was
the venue for the largest display of public dissent ever seen in China,
attracting nearly one million protesters over three months. It was ended when
the government declared martial law. Tanks were ordered into the square, rolling
over the tents of protesters. Fleeing activists were machine-gunned in the
streets.

Mr Livingstone said that Britain's own struggle for democracy was not one to be
proud of, and used the 1819 Peterloo massacre in Manchester - in which 11 people
were killed and 400 injured - as an example. "There is no such thing as one
country with a perfect record," he said.

Asked for his own recollection of the Tiananmen Square massacre, he said: "My
thoughts at the time, I will discuss with my host tomorrow."

But human rights campaigners have today slammed Mr Livingstone for comparing the
two events. The campaigns manager for the Free Tibet Campaign, Yael Weisc-Rind,
accused the Mayor of "turning a blind eye" to abuses in China.

"He is a man who claims to stand for up for human rights, so it is very shocking
that he can ignore violations like this," she said. "There is no freedom of
religion, expression, the press or access to information and torture is still
widespread."

"For the Mayor to make this comparison is very unfortunate. The Tiananmen Square
massacre was on a level and scale totally unlike the poll tax riots.

"China is an authoritarian regime with a small elite exercising power over
people in a very brutal way."

And Bob Neill, the leader of the Conservative group on the London Assembly, has
questioned whether the Mayor is fit to remain in his post.

"I think the man has completely lost it and should get himself some professional
help," he said. "This is beyond erratic and irritating, this is the behaviour of
someone who is not on the same planet as everyone else. It is absolute lunacy
and the pressure of the job must be getting to him. It makes you question
whether he is fit to continue as Mayor."

Mr Neill has accused Mr Livingstone of "rank hypocrisy", claiming the Mayor said
he would highlight China's human rights abuses on his visit.

"For him to then belittle the Tiananmen Square massacre in this way is a
disgrace," Mr Neill said.

"To compare the killing of civilians and the use of tanks on unarmed protesters
to police dealing with a demonstration is ridiculous. He must apologise to the
victims of Tiananmen Square, their relatives and all the people campaigning for
democracy in China."

The Mayor's visit to the square was the first item on his itinerary after flying
the 5,000 miles first-class from London with London Olympics leader Lord Coe and
a delegation of business and tourism chiefs.

The aim of the weeklong trip - which will take the Mayor to Shanghai on
Wednesday - is to develop Olympic links between London and Beijing and attract
Chinese investment in the capital.

Jung Chang, author of international Bestseller Wild Swans and co-author of Mao,
left China for Britain in 1978. Her parents, leading Chinese intellectuals, were
tortured and sent to labour camps. She said: "As Ken Livingstone begins his
visit to Beijing, one of the first sights that will greet him is a huge portrait
of Mao Zedong that hangs in the middle of the capital.

"That is a sober reminder of the fact that China has not yet dealt with the
bloody legacy of Mao - a man responsible for 70 million deaths of his own
people. This is an issue that the Mayor could raise with his hosts as they
discuss the plans for Beijing's hosting of the Olympics in 2008.

"Many foreign visitors will be perplexed and indeed disgusted to see that the
man who caused so much destruction to his country is still honoured by the
Government in Beijing."

Mr Livingstone and Lord Coe posed for pictures in front of the giant countdown
clock - declaring 852 days until the start of the 2008 Beijing Olympics - before
visiting the Forbidden City and an exhibition showing the Chinese capital's
preparations for the Games. The Mayor then attended a private dinner in the
Great Hall of the People in Tiananmen Square - the home of China's national
parliament - last night.

Both men noticed the city's appalling air pollution, which creates a fog of
fumes that blocks out the sun and reduces visibility to around half a mile.

Beijing Olympic chiefs are reportedly considering banning two million cars from
roads and shutting down factories in a bid to minimise emissions during the
Games.

EDITORIAL COMMENT: PAGE 12

JONATHAN MIRSKY: PAGE 13

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW: KEN LIVINGSTONE IN THE FORBIDDEN CITY TODAY. HE WAS ACCUSED OF
BELITTLING THE TIANANMEN SQUARE MASSACRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Nine arrested over riots in Chinese village 6 December

LENGTH: 542 words


Text of report by Minnie Chan entitled: "Nine arrested over Shanwei riots",
published by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 13 December

At least nine villagers from Dongzhou village, Shanwei, are believed to have
been arrested for their part in riots last Tuesday [6 December] in which police
opened fire and killed at least three protesters, according to local television
reports and villagers.

The arrested villagers were all in their 30s and 40s and included the three
alleged instigators - Huang Xijun, Huang Xirang and Lin Hanru - who were
described as "wanted criminals" by police.

Five others were identified as Huang Xiping, Huang Xiran, Chen Jinsong, Zhang
Jinwang and Zhuo Nianfu. Villagers were yesterday unable to confirm the identity
of the ninth person arrested.

Villagers said the announcement was broadcast on television, but did not show
the faces of the nine.

"In the past, they would show the faces of arrested suspects to show what a good
job the police were doing in arresting criminals," one villager said. "This
time, they did not."

Other villagers said police had stepped up their search for demonstrators who
joined last Tuesday's riots by posting photographs of protesters on the street.
They claimed more than 100 photographs had been posted by police.

"We have lived in fear since the bloody crackdown," one villager said. "Tension
has increased every day since the People's Armed Police came.

"Local government officials and police are looking for suspected protesters
door-to-door. But I am not sure if they have arrested anyone because all those
who took part in the protests have fled or are hiding elsewhere."

A report by Guangdong provincial newspapers on Sunday said a commanding officer
had been detained for mishandling the riots, resulting in "deaths and injuries
by accident".

The Hong Kong-based pro-Beijing Ta Kung Pao confirmed a report by the South
China Morning Post that the commanding officer was a vice-director of the
Shanwei Public Security Bureau and identified him by his family name, Wu.

Yesterday marked the seventh day since the shooting of the villagers. Following
Chinese tradition, family members prayed for the spirits of the dead, expecting
them to return home to visit the family for the last time.

Near the clash site yesterday, family members continued to gather to mourn for
the dead. They burned incense sticks and prayed.

Relatives of one of the victims, Wei Jin, said they would not agree to the
compensation offered by the government, and could not accept the terms offered
for the return of his body.

They said Shanwei deputy party secretary Wu Gongqiang had told them on Sunday
that they would be paid 50,000 yuan compensation and be given Wei's body on the
condition that they buried him immediately under the supervision of the
authorities.

"They must have tampered with the body," one relative said. "How would we know
for sure that it was Wei Jin? If the body had been tampered with and the
evidence [of shooting] destroyed, what's the point of having the body?"

The family said Mr Wu was "very angry" when his offer was rejected. "He was
shouting and banging his fist on the wall," the relative said.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 13 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday

China sends chartered plane to fetch Chinese nationals in Tonga

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 22 November: A chartered aircraft is being sent to pick up Chinese
nationals who want to leave the troubled Tonga islands, Wang Yongsheng,
spokesman for Air China, said Wednesday [22 November].

The plane will leave Beijing at 5.00 p.m. [local time] Wednesday for Fiji,
Tonga's neighbour, to pick up its passengers. The Tonga evacuees will have to
make their way to Fiji where they will board the aircraft carrying them to
Xiamen, in east China's Fujian Province. It's expected to land there at 5.00
p.m. Thursday, said Wang.

Wang said Air China received a request from the Chinese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs on Monday to bring home the Chinese nationals living in Tonga.

As Air China has no commercial flights to Tonga, Wang said the chartered flight
had complicated coordination with civil aviation authorities. The flight will
fly over nine countries and regions on its 21,100 km trip, he said.

Riots triggered by a disputed parliamentary reform broke out in Tonga's capital
Nuku'alofa last Thursday, in which eight people died and 80 per cent of the
central business district was destroyed.

According to earlier reports, about 30 Chinese-run stores were also looted or
burned during the riot.

China and Tonga established diplomatic relations in November 1998. About 500
Chinese people are estimated to be living in Nuku'alofa.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0619 gmt 22 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

Riot over rise in bus fares leaves one dead

BYLINE: Richard Spencerin Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 198 words


A PROTEST against an increase in local bus fares spiralled into a major riot in
central China during which paramilitary police fought running battles with
villagers and a teenager was killed, according to unofficial reports.

The escalation of violence in the village of Zhushan in central Hunan province
is a graphic example of the social tensions underlying China's economic boom.

Discontent over the widening gap between rich and poor has seen growing unrest
in rural areas.

The riot began on Friday with a protest against the local bus company, which put
up prices on a single route to the village from five yuan each way (35 pence) to
nine yuan (60 pence).

The bus service in the area was privatised two years ago, and taken over by a
local businessman.

Protests against the price rise began peacefully, but when the crowd became
violent, overturning a bus, and as local police moved in to quell the
disturbance, numbers grew.

Eventually up to 2,000 people were involved in the riot, damaging buses and
police cars during disturbances which lasted all weekend.

This latest reported unrest took place as the Chinese legislature, the National
People's Congress, held its annual session in Beijing.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 10, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In China, an old formula targets ethnic unrest;
A swift crackdown, cast in smiley-face stickers

BYLINE: Calum MacLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1779 words


URUMQI, China -- For anyone still upset about the ethnic riots that killed
nearly 200 people here last month, Li Han says she has just the thing -- yellow
smiley-face stickers bearing the slogan, "A smile is the common language of all
nationalities."

Li, a petite, 22-year-old recent university graduate, is one of 1,800 volunteers
recruited by the local Communist Party to hand out 100,000 of the stickers,
organize public dances in parks and publicize the Chinese government's efforts
to ease tensions. "We must make the mutual hatred subside," Li says. "We tell
the public that without ethnic unity, nobody will get rich."

The slogan on the yellow stickers is printed in both the Mandarin Chinese and
Arabic languages -- for the ethnic Chinese and Muslim, or Uighur (WEE-gur),
factions that clashed in the streets with stones, knives and clubs on July 5 and
for several days afterward, as years of simmering tensions erupted.  Around
town, numerous red cloth banners proclaim "Ethnic unity is good!" and
"Resolutely oppose ethnic separatism!"

The propaganda is part of a broad effort by the Chinese government to move on
after the latest, and most severe, spate of social unrest to hit the country
during the past year and a half.

Yet many residents in Urumqi say they still fear violence could break out at any
time. And even Li is among those questioning whether the continued tensions here
reveal something more deeply wrong with her country.

"It's still dangerous out there. You don't know when someone might jump out and
injure you," she says. "What did we do wrong to create such a society?"

Urumqi (uh-ROOM-chee), a city of 2.3 million about 2,050 miles west of Beijing,
was long isolated from the rest of the country by its vast deserts and mountain
ranges. Even so, its recent story is typical of other troubled parts of China --
including Tibet, where similar ethnic riots broke out in March 2008.

During the past decade, China's booming economy created an almost insatiable
demand for the region's natural resources of oil, gas and coal. That brought a
flood of ethnic Chinese immigrants who have taken many jobs and threatened the
customs and culture of the Uighurs.

Rebiya Kadeer, a Uighur leader who lives in exile in the USA, says the main
cause of the riots here was "heavy-handed repression of the Uighur people" by
Beijing, particularly during the past 10 years. She told USA TODAY by telephone
that the 9/11 attacks have given the Chinese government an even greater pretext
to crack down on Muslims, resulting in more restrictions on civil liberties that
have angered locals.

Most of those killed in the unrest in Urumqi were ethnic Chinese, or Han. Wang
Lequan, the local Communist Party leader, has blamed the violence on Uighur
separatists and said last week that police patrols in Urumqi would continue to
be intensified, citing the threat from "criminals who attempt to stage terrorist
attacks." At least 1,600 people were detained after the riots, according to the
state-run Xinhua News Agency, and many remain in detention.

As Uighur vendors in the city grill kebabs on open barbecues and hawk
watermelons, armed security forces march by with shields, batons and guns,
watching for signs of trouble. Internet access in Urumqi is limited, along with
most cellphone service and text messaging.

Such crackdowns have become familiar in China recently. Since the Tibet riots,
the country also has seen protests after the earthquake in Sichuan province in
May 2008, and riots by factory workers who lost their jobs amid the global
recession. The government detained numerous dissidents and stepped up Internet
censorship to prevent similar displays of unrest at the Beijing Olympics in
2008, and again this summer ahead of the 20th anniversary of the failed
pro-democracy movement in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.

Sean Roberts, an expert on Uighurs at George Washington University, says the
Chinese government "has shown itself very able at short-term control" during the
past year. Yet he says the lingering tensions in Urumqi and surrounding Xinjiang
province illustrate the shortcomings of such repressive tactics. He predicts the
ethnic groups there are on a "collision course" over the long term.

During a four-day trip to Urumqi last week, a USA TODAY reporter witnessed the
techniques that the Chinese government is using to try to keep an uneasy peace
here:

1. Round them up

Guli Niyaz, 26, should be celebrating the birth of her second child, a son born
July 7. Instead, she's worried about  her husband, Turgun Aziz, who was detained
July 5 as the riots raged.

Niyaz says she had asked her husband to go out to buy chicken. He telephoned an
hour later from his mother's house, close to the center of the worst violence,
to say they were hiding inside.

He went out later for cigarettes, Niyaz says. That's when she got a desperate
phone call from him -- and heard voices in the background shouting, "Catch him!"
in Mandarin. She hasn't heard from him since.

"I know he is innocent," she says. "He is a mild, thin man, with a bad cough. I
hope the police are not beating him in detention."

In contrast to the riots in Tibet, when more than 950 people were detained, the
government in Beijing has been quick to announce that defendants will be offered
Uighur-speaking defense lawyers. But several Uighurs interviewed by USA TODAY,
including Niyaz, said they had not been contacted by anyone representing their
imprisoned relatives.

Niyaz stood inside a grocery store surrounded by several female neighbors. "Look
how few men are here," she said. "They've all been taken away." As for her own
husband, she says, "I want him to see his son."

2. Insist everything is OK

Liu Xianyong, deputy head of propaganda for Urumqi's Communist Party, is proud
of his efforts. He recently helped open a photo exhibition called We Are All One
Family at Urumqi's museum.

"We have never put out so many banners before," Liu says. "We are using
traditional methods of propaganda, but I am confident they will work, and I am
confident there will not be another 'July 5th incident.' "

Propaganda in China reached new heights before and during the Olympics, when the
government was eager to project a unified image to the world. Nicholas Bequelin,
a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human Rights Watch, an advocacy group, says
most Uighurs will recognize such efforts as "just empty slogans." Yet among the
city's Han, or ethnic Chinese, the exhibits and posters win over more people
than many Westerners might think, he says.

"It seems absurd to us, but in the context of China, they are convincing their
own population with most of what they are saying," Bequelin says. "They are
turning a crisis into an asset in fostering greater national cohesion and
nationalism."

Not everybody's buying the message of harmony, though. "Don't believe what the
government says," says Sun Jingsong, 36. "The situation is not back to normal
here."

Sun, who is ethnic Han, was born in another city in Xinjiang and arrived in
Urumqi 12 years ago as a dishwasher. He now owns a chain of restaurants, plus a
Buick Regal and a Volkswagen Passat. "I have few Uighur friends -- they are
anti-Han in their bones," he says. "I will definitely keep my distance from
them."

Sun says he now plans to buy a luxury villa at a golf course outside the city to
protect himself and his family. Only a few of the golf course's 500 members are
ethnic minorities, says Wu Xinghu, a coach there. "I worry there will be another
riot," he says.

3. Identify a common enemy

Until last month, the Chinese government usually saved its most hostile
invective for the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader whom Beijing accuses
of leading a separatist movement. Now, the center of attention has shifted to
Rebiya Kadeer, the Uighur leader who lives in the Washington, D.C., area.

Official TV and newspapers in Urumqi and throughout China carry constant
condemnations of Kadeer, accusing her of masterminding the riots. Wang, the
local party boss, has accused Kadeer of fomenting "the three evil forces of
terrorism, separatism and extremism."

State news media have also recently carried interviews with some of Kadeer's
children, who still live in China, begging her to stop fomenting separatism in
Xinjiang. Kadeer says the government is coercing them into making the pleas and
dismisses the tactic as "nothing new."

"My hope is to sit down with the Chinese government to have dialogue," she says.
"It is in their interest ... to peacefully resolve the situation, or it will get
even worse."

Meanwhile, the government continues to call Kadeer a threat. A report last week
by the state-run Xinhua News Agency, citing unidentified security sources,
claimed "five organized terrorist attacks on civilians have been prevented"
since July 5.

4. Show them the money

Last week, Urumqi announced $791 million in new highway construction over the
next two months. That followed an announcement that 300,000 temporary workers
would be brought into the area to complement 200,000 locals working on the
seasonal cotton harvest.

The efforts are similar to those following riots at factories last winter in
Guangdong province, where many workers lost their jobs because of a severe drop
in Chinese exports. In that instance, the government announced a series of
measures designed to stimulate job creation.

"Speeding up development is the best way" to avoid further violence, Xinjiang
transport official Wang Xinhua was quoted as saying by the Xinhua News Agency.

Nursun Kamil, a Uighur who leads a local theater where both Uighurs and ethnic
Chinese took shelter during the worst night of violence, says such economic
projects probably are the best way to ease tensions over the long term. "We must
change the mentality of some young Uighurs, who expect the state or their
parents to provide for them," he says.

There are other efforts underway to bring Uighurs into the local economy -- but
they're controversial.

Last week, the regional government announced a doubling of investment in
kindergartens that teach in both Mandarin Chinese and the Uighur language. Nur
Bekri, the regional party chairman, was quoted in China Daily saying that
non-Mandarin-speaking Uighurs are "relatively isolated from mainstream society"
and thus more easily "tricked into terrorist activities."

Li Han, the young volunteer, also is hopeful that prosperity will cure Urumqi's
ills. Her group is named the "Snow Lotus" volunteers -- for a flower that grows
in local mountains but is an endangered species because of its popularity in
Chinese medicine.

"Its vitality is strong," she insists. "The snow lotus survives in difficult
circumstances. Urumqi, too, will recover and bloom again."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Sources: ESRI, AP (map)
PHOTO, Color, Eugene Hoshiko, AP
PHOTO, Color, Calum MacLeod, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Kyodo News via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

For Indonesia's ethnic Chinese, fear subsides

BYLINE: Thomas Fuller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA


It wasn't so long ago that Chinese writing was banned from public places here
and Chinese schools and newspapers were prohibited. But walk into the former
office of Suharto, the retired Indonesian strongman who maintained these laws in
an attempt to integrate the ethnic Chinese community, and a large decorative
poster of Chinese characters greets visitors.

''In the old days I would have been arrested for this,'' Dino Patti Djalal, an
adviser to the government and now the occupant of Suharto's office, said as he
glanced back at his poster. Djalal, who is not Chinese, added: ''This shows the
progression of Indonesia. We now take multiculturalism as a given in life.''

After centuries of segregation, periodic violence and tension over their higher
levels of wealth, Indonesia's Chinese community, which makes up 1 to 2 percent
of the population of 245 million, is now enjoying what many are calling a golden
era.

''The situation of the Chinese has never been as good as today,'' said Benny
Setiono, head of the Chinese Indonesian Association, a nonprofit group that
represents the community. ''We feel more free, more equal.''

As someone whose forebears arrived here from China something like eight
generations ago Setiono speaks with authority when he says the Chinese community
is more secure than it has ever been, just eight years after anti-Chinese riots,
part of the unraveling of Suharto's authoritarian rule, left scores of Chinese
dead and many shops burned.

One of the main reasons for the optimism is a fundamental change in Indonesian
law: The country has redefined what it means to be a ''native.''

A citizenship law passed this year proclaims that an indigenous Indonesian is
someone who was born here to Indonesian citizens, a radical departure for a
society that separated the Chinese in one way or another through colonial times
and more recently during Suharto's 33-year reign that ended just after the riots
in 1998.

Other laws have erased the preferential treatment for ''pribumi,'' or indigenous
groups, in bank lending and the awarding of government contracts, a policy that
still exists in Malaysia, where racial tensions are creeping higher.

In the eight years since Suharto stepped down, Indonesia has dropped the
draconian rules that banned expressions of Chinese culture and adopted Chinese
New Year as a national holiday.

The horrors of the anti-Chinese violence in 1998 were the prime impetus for the
legal overhaul. But Indonesians also realized that espousing the concept of a
''native'' could be explosive for everyone, not just the Chinese.

''The question of who was here first became very dangerous,'' said Andreas
Harsono, a journalist who is researching a book on nationalism here. ''The logic
has been manipulated by many politicians.''

The so-called transmigration policies of Suharto dispersed hundreds of thousands
of families, mainly Javanese, across the archipelago, creating conflicts with
other ethnic groups.

Today, instead of using the word ''pribumi,'' some politicians claim they are
''putra daerah,'' or local sons, and contrast that with ''pendatang,'' or
newcomers. A country that sometimes seems to have as many ethnic groups and
dialects as inhabited islands (about 6,000) will probably never be clear of
racial rivalries, but tensions are nowhere near the levels of a few years ago.

As late as last year, a U.S. court of appeal ruled that the threat of violence
was enough to justify a Chinese Indonesian's plea for asylum.

In Glodok, a warren of warehouses not far from Jakarta's old port that was badly
damaged during the 1998 riots, a consolidated peace now reigns. Chinese shop
owners and their employees say they cannot recall any racial arguments breaking
out in recent years.

''I don't feel any tension,'' said Phie Ching Huat, who runs an electronics
shop. Phie, whose Indonesian name is Sukino, said many ethnic Chinese families
now send their children to schools that teach Chinese dialects, mainly Mandarin.

With the rise of China as a world power, learning Chinese is becoming popular
among Indonesians of all ethnicities. ''You can hear Mandarin and Cantonese
everywhere,'' said Phie, whose relatives' shop was burned in the riots.

Indonesians said mentalities are also changing here, especially the notion that
all Indonesian Chinese are rapaciously rich, a common perception during the
Suharto years, when a select group of Chinese cronies controlled large,
high-profile businesses.

Tension involving overseas Chinese has been a recurring theme in Indonesia and
throughout Southeast Asia, both before and after countries in the region became
independent. Like Jews in Europe, the Chinese were often traders or financiers,
and many, although far from all, achieved commercial success.

During the days of Mao Zedong's rule in China, overseas Chinese were looked upon
with suspicion in Indonesia and tens of thousands were killed in anti-Communist
massacres of the 1960s.

This is now all ancient history for some young people. ''There are some very
rich Chinese, but there are some very poor Chinese, too,'' said Sayidah Salim, a
20-year-old student at the Islamic State University, outside Jakarta. ''If
people want to work hard they will earn more money.''

Djalal, the government adviser, credited the Chinese government for changing
attitudes in Indonesia about the Chinese minority here. ''They are projecting a
very friendly, benevolent face,'' he said of Beijing. Like many other countries
in the region, Indonesia is wooing tourists from China.

Setiono, of the Chinese Indonesian Association, said his organization was
reaching out to poorer Indonesians of all ethnicities and providing food and
medicines. Ethnic Chinese, he said, also need to be more mindful of the wealth
gap and must work to reduce it if racial harmony is to be maintained.

Indonesian Chinese will live with the memory of the 1998 riots for many years.
During an interview, Susanto, an ethnic Chinese wholesaler, projected a video of
the violence onto his wall. ''I'm not showing you this to scare you. It's to
remember,'' he said. But ethnic relations have improved so much, Susanto said,
that today he has no complaints. ''Day to day there is no discrimination,'' he
said. ''I think we have a good future here.''

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2006



CORRECTION: An article Thursday misstated the length of Suharto's rule in
Indonesia. It was 32 years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday

China reproaches foreign media;
Biased reporting alleged over Tibet

BYLINE: David Barboza - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


China has sharply criticized foreign reporters here over their coverage of the
riots in Tibet, accusing them of biased reporting and preventing them from
traveling to Tibet or neighboring provinces to report on the unrest.

The government has also increased its propaganda campaign aimed at convincing
the Chinese public that the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader, instigated
the violence in Tibet on March 14 and that China was a victim of separatist
terrorist activity.

The campaign is the clearest sign of China's concerns that the Tibet unrest, as
well as anti-government protests over Darfur, could disrupt the Olympic Games
this summer.

In a sign of the tension with the media, three members of the Athens chapter of
Reporters Without Borders, a media-rights group based in Paris, disrupted the
Olympic flame-lighting ceremony in Greece on Monday. The incident occurred as
Liu Qi, president of the Beijing Organizing Committee, was addressing thousands
of spectators, dignitaries and Olympics officials. (Page 4)

The government appears to be blocking foreign Web sites inside China and
censoring foreign television broadcasts here about the situation in Tibet.
Youtube.com was blocked after the riots began and CNN and BBC broadcasts
regularly go black after any mention of Tibet. The New York Times Web site also
appeared to have been blocked or censored in recent days.

Over the weekend, the government allowed Chinese Web sites, which are usually
heavily censored for political content, to post sharp critiques of foreign media
reports about Tibet and to show graphic, violent images of Tibetans looting and
attacking ethnic Han Chinese in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, on March 14.

The images have fueled outrage in China and led to a flurry of Web postings
vehemently critical of Tibetans.

State-controlled news media have been allowed to report from Tibet and
neighboring areas where violent protests occurred.

But foreign journalists have been denied access to Tibet and blocked from
reaching neighboring regions with large Tibetan populations. Many foreign
reporters who managed to get into Tibet after the riots were forced to leave.

Foreign journalists in China said those actions violated the government's pledge
to give them greater press freedoms and access to the country in the months
leading up to the Olympic Games.

''At a time when China is promising to become more open with the world, this is
a big disappointment,'' said Jocelyn Ford, a freelance journalist in Beijing and
chairwoman of the media freedoms committee of the Foreign Correspondents Club
there.

To appease foreign reporters, Beijing told several journalists Monday that a
group of about 12 journalists would be able to travel to Lhasa for a special,
government-guided tour of the city later this week. Whether they will be allowed
to interview people independently was unclear.

The government has issued no official statement criticizing the foreign media.
But in recent days state-controlled newspapers, television stations and Web
sites have been carrying articles and commentary with a common theme: foreign
media distortions.

The front page of the weekend edition of China Daily, the English-language
newspaper, said: ''Riot Reports Show Media Bias in West.'' And the official
Xinhua news agency released a report over the weekend suggesting that footage
shown by CNN misrepresented the situation.

Gao Zhikai, a former official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the
foreign media were partly to blame, and contended that many of the reports about
Tibet had been biased.

''If you read the foreign media, the only message you can get is that China is
very heavy-handed; and they are doing a lot of bad things in Tibet and they are
totally out of their minds,'' Gao said. ''And they talk about the Dalai Lama as
if he's God.''

James Miles, a journalist with The Economist, who happened to be in Lhasa during
the riots, was praised on Chinese state television, though, after he reported in
the magazine and gave an interview to CNN describing the Lhasa riots and saying
that Tibetans were singling out Han Chinese, burning their shops, throwing
stones and assaulting them.

The point, some Chinese commentators said, was that the rioters were killing
innocent Chinese, not that the government was shooting protesters.

State-controlled television, for instance, reported Monday that protesters
burned five Chinese to death in a garage, including an 8-month-old boy. The
government also repeats over and over that the riots were orchestrated by the
''Dalai clique'' to upstage the Olympics.

For his part, the Dalai Lama has said for a week that he did not organize the
riots and that he supported the decision to allow China to hold the Olympics.

On Monday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged the Chinese government to
talk to the Dalai Lama, Reuters reported from Beijing.

''We believe that the answer for Tibet is to have a more sustainable policy for
the Chinese government concerning Tibet,'' Rice said at a news conference in
Washington.

In Paris, President Nicolas Sarkozy called for an end to the violence in Tibet
and said France would be willing to facilitate talks between China and the Dalai
Lama's envoys, Reuters reported.

Two opinion polls released on Monday showed a majority of French people in favor
of a boycott of the Olympic opening ceremony.

The Chinese government insists that the foreign media do not understand Tibet or
efforts by the government to bring prosperity to the region.

But journalists here said the travel and reporting restrictions were making
things worse.

''Reporters are not even allowed to see the whole story in Tibet,'' said Ford,
of the Foreign Correspondents Club in Beijing. ''We don't even know why people
rioted or what they wanted.''

Georg Blume, a reporter for the German newspaper Die Zeit, was one of the few
Western journalists to get into Lhasa after the riots. He arrived on March 15,
he said, and saw huge areas damaged by riots, fires and looting.

He said some Tibetans who took part in the riots said they were proud that they
were finally able to stand up to the Chinese; others said they were ashamed of
the violence.

They complained about social discrimination, unequal pay and rumors that almost
everyone had heard that Tibetan monks had been arrested, and even killed, in the
days before the riots.

He was ordered to leave after five days.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 26, 2008 Wednesday

China faults journalists as it tries to shape news;
Foreign media shut out on Tibet access

BYLINE: David Barboza - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


Chinese officials have sharply criticized foreign reporters here over their
coverage of the riots in Tibet, accusing them of biased reporting and preventing
them from traveling to Tibet or neighboring provinces to report on the unrest.

The government has also begun a propaganda campaign aimed at persuading the
public that the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader, instigated the violence
in Tibet on March 14 and that China was a victim of separatist terrorism.

The Tibetan government in exile says that the death toll from the demonstrations
stands at about 140, including 19 in Gansu Province. China has put the death
toll at 22.

The Chinese government's effort is the clearest sign yet of China's concern that
the Tibet unrest, as well as anti-government protests over Darfur, could disrupt
the Olympic Games this summer in Beijing.

The government appears to be blocking foreign Web sites inside China and
censoring foreign television broadcasts about Tibet.

Youtube.com was blocked after the riots began, and CNN and BBC broadcasts
regularly go black after mention of riots in Tibet. The New York Times Web site
appears to have been blocked or censored in recent days.

Over the weekend, the government allowed Chinese Web sites, which are usually
heavily censored for political content, to post sharp critiques of foreign news
media reports about Tibet and to show graphic, violent images of Tibetans
looting and attacking ethnically Han Chinese in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, on
March 14.

The images have fueled outrage in China and led to a flurry of Web postings
vehemently critical of Tibetans.

State-controlled news media have been allowed to report from Tibet and
neighboring areas where violent protests occurred. But foreign journalists have
been denied access to Tibet and blocked from reaching neighboring regions with
large Tibetan populations. Many foreign reporters who managed to get into Tibet
after the riots were forced to leave.

Foreign journalists in China say these actions violate the government's pledge
to give them greater press freedoms and access to the country in the months
leading to the Olympics.

''At a time when China is promising to become more open with the world, this is
a big disappointment,'' said Jocelyn Ford, a freelance journalist based in
Beijing and chairwoman of the media freedoms committee of the Foreign
Correspondents Club there.

To appease foreign reporters, Beijing told several journalists Monday that a
group of about 12 journalists would be able to travel to Lhasa for a special
government-guided tour of the city this week.

Whether they will be allowed to interview people independently is unclear.

The government has issued no official statement criticizing the foreign news
media. But in recent days state-controlled newspapers, television stations and
Internet sites have been carrying stories and commentary with a common theme:
foreign media distortions. The official news agency Xinhua released a story over
the weekend suggesting that film shown by CNN had misrepresented the situation.
CNN, in a statement, said its coverage was accurate.

''I used to think the Western media were fair,'' wrote one person who posted
comments online, according to the state-run newspaper China Daily. ''But how
could they turn a blind eye to the killing and arson by rioters?''

Gao Zhikai, a former Ministry of Foreign Affairs official, said the foreign
media were partly to blame and contended that many of the reports about Tibet
had been biased. ''If you read the foreign media, the only message you can get
is that China is very heavy-handed, and they are doing a lot of bad things in
Tibet, and they are totally out of their minds,'' Gao said. ''And they talk
about the Dalai Lama as if he's God.''

James Miles, a journalist with The Economist, who happened to be in Lhasa during
the riots, was praised on Chinese state television, though, after he reported in
The Economist and gave an interview to CNN describing the riots and saying that
Tibetans were singling out Han Chinese, burning their shops, throwing stones and
assaulting them.

The point, some Chinese commentators said, was that the rioters were killing
innocent Chinese rather than that the government was shooting protesters.

The government also repeats over and over that the riots were orchestrated by
the ''Dalai clique'' to upstage the Olympics.

The Dalai Lama has said in the past week that he did not organize the riots and
that he supported the decision to allow China to hold the Olympics.

The government also insists that the foreign news media do not understand Tibet
or efforts by the government to bring prosperity to the region.

Journalists here say the travel and reporting restrictions are making things
worse. ''Reporters are not even allowed the see the whole story in Tibet,'' says
Ford, with the Foreign Correspondents Club in Beijing. ''We don't even know why
people rioted or what they wanted.''

Georg Blume, a reporter for the German newspaper Die Zeit, was one of the few
Western journalists to get into Lhasa after the riots. He arrived on March 15,
he said, and saw huge areas damaged by riots, fires and looting.

He says some Tibetans who took part in the riots said they were proud that they
were finally able to stand up to the Chinese; others said they were ashamed of
the violence.

They complained about social discrimination, unequal pay and rumors that almost
everyone had heard that Tibetan monks had been arrested, and even killed, in the
days before the riots.

He was ordered to leave after five days. ''Every day the police were in my hotel
room,'' he said. ''They said, 'You have to leave.' At the end, they threatened
to take my visa away. So I left.''

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

Hundreds of Tibetans arrested

BYLINE: David Barboza - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


Chen Yang contributed research from Shanghai.

*

China said Wednesday that 660 people had surrendered to the authorities in
western China, following two weeks of anti-government protests and deadly riots
in and around Tibet.

The arrests are part of the government's effort to quell continuing unrest in
the area, even as Beijing faces mounting international pressure to negotiate
with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader.

The unrest, which began with a riot 12 days ago in Lhasa, the capital of Tibet,
has already cast a pall over preparations for the Olympic Games in Beijing this
summer and energized human rights activists and others who believe Tibet should
be an independent state.

Beijing has reacted furiously to the riots and to international criticism of its
handling of the situation, saying the violent uprising was instigated by the
Dalai Lama, as well as Tibetan separatists. The government said 19 people were
killed and more than 600 wounded.

The government attacked the Dalai Lama in a statement, declaring that Tibet is
undeniably a part of China.

''This riot was deliberately manipulated by the Dalai Lama clique and our
government has taken legal actions to return Lhasa and other places to
normality,'' Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said in a
statement released by his office Wednesday. ''The Dalai Lama is not purely a
religious person. For a long time, he wore a religious coat and held the banner
of peace while trying to separate China and destroy social stability and
national unity.''

The Tibetan government in exile has disputed Beijing's casualty figures, saying
that at least 140 people had died in the demonstrations.

Tibet and neighboring provinces, which have large Tibetan populations, are now
under tight military control, with roadblocks and house-to-house searches for
suspects under way, according to people in the region.

Beijing says order has been restored in Lhasa and most other Tibetan regions,
but there have been reports of protests and sporadic violence in some areas.

This week, the Chinese government issued a ''most wanted'' list with the names
of 53 people who it says took part in anti-government protests or riots,
according to Xinhua, the government news agency.

Some world leaders are now pressing China to use restraint in Tibetan areas and
to negotiate with the Dalai Lama, who in 1959 fled Tibet and settled in
bordering India. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has urged China to
negotiate with the Dalai Lama.

Beijing has reacted angrily to any attempt to link unrest in Tibet to the
Olympics and has stepped up an aggressive campaign aimed at portraying the Dalai
Lama as a separatist.

Beijing said it has evidence that the riots were instigated by what it calls the
''Dalai clique.''

The Dalai Lama has insisted in recent weeks that he had no role in the violent
protests and that he does not favor independence for Tibet. He has also offered
to resign if Tibetans in western China continue to engage in violence.

Hoping to sway public opinion, Beijing allowed a group of about 26 hand-picked
foreign journalists to travel to Lhasa on Wednesday morning to witness the
damage in the city and interview victims of the riots, according to the
state-controlled media.

Very few journalists have been able to report from inside Tibet. Shortly after
the March 14 riots, the government began forcing foreign journalists out of the
city. Government blockades have also prevented foreign journalists from reaching
Tibetan areas in neighboring provinces.

The foreign journalists invited to Lhasa on Wednesday are on a three-day,
government-supervised trip. The Associated Press was among the organizations
allowed to travel there; The New York Times was not offered entry.

The Chinese media have been driving home Beijing's message: that Tibetan
separatists acted as terrorists, while the government responded with restraint
in quelling the riots.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

More than 1,000 held over Lhasa riots;
China says it plans trials before May 1

BYLINE: From news reports - AP, Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


More than 1,000 people have been arrested or turned themselves in to the police
in connection with the deadly rioting last month in the Tibetan capital of
Lhasa, one of the city's top officials said.

Trials will be held before May 1, the deputy Communist Party secretary of Lhasa,
Wang Xiangming, was quoted Thursday as saying in the official Tibet Commerce
newspaper. The quick scheduling of the trials is an apparent sign of the
government's determination to close the book on the events well before the
opening of the Olympic Games in Beijing on Aug. 8.

Wang's remarks offered the most complete picture yet of the scope of the
crackdown on the largest and most sustained anti-government protests in Tibetan
areas across western China in almost two decades.

Beijing sent thousands of police and soldiers to the area to maintain an edgy
peace, hunt down protest leaders and cordon off the Buddhist monasteries where
monks led protests that began peacefully on March 10. The protests turned
violent four days later.

Wang said 800 people had been arrested over the violence in Lhasa, while another
280 had surrendered to take advantage of a police offer of leniency. The
government said 22 people died in the unrest.

The publication of Wang's remarks came as Reuters, citing the World Uighur
Congress, an exile group, reported that the police in Kashgar, in the Xinjiang
region, had arrested 70 people, fearing trouble when the Olympic torch passes
through the city in June.

Xinjiang, in the northwest of China, is another autonomous region with a large
population of ethnic minorities. In the case of Kashgar, many residents are
Muslim Uighurs. On Wednesday, Chinese officials said that Xinjiang protests had
been staged in late March by Islamic separatist groups seeking to foment a
broader uprising in the region, the largest one on March 23 in the city of
Hotan.

In another apparent indication of Beijing's haste to return Tibet to normal, the
Tibetan tourism authority announced Thursday that the region would reopen to
foreign tourist groups on May 1, in time for a national three-day vacation.

Tour operators, hoteliers and restaurant owners have complained of major losses
due to the closure of the region's borders as part of the massive security
clampdown.

The Tibet Daily newspaper said Thursday that Zhang Qingli, the Communist Party
chief of the entire Tibet Autonomous Region, had ordered officials to direct
ideological education at young people, focusing on negative portrayals of Tibet
prior to the communist invasion in 1950. He also called for continuing
denunciations of the political agenda of the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan
spiritual leader.

Henry Paulson, the U.S. Treasury secretary and the highest-ranking U.S. official
to visit Beijing since the anti-government riots in Lhasa, said he had appealed
to Chinese leaders to engage their critics.

''I expressed our concerns about the violence,'' Paulson said Wednesday, ''and
urged a peaceful resolution through dialogue.''

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Rumors and riots;
China

BYLINE: Minxin Pei - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 848 words


Tens of thousands of mass protests and riots take place each year in China, but
the most recent and publicized riot, which occurred on June 28 in Weng'an, a
poor county in Guizhou, must be deeply unsettling to the Chinese authorities.

Erupting roughly 40 days before the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics,
the riot, captured on YouTube, clearly bothers a government that wants to
showcase China's prosperity and stability. The riot was also one of the largest
(involving more than 10,000 people) and most violent in recent years. Rioters
set fire to the headquarters of the local Communist Party and the police and
caused widespread property damage

The riot was apparently triggered by the local police's inept handling of a
recent case in which a teenage girl was allegedly raped and murdered. Instead of
conducting a thorough investigation, the police reportedly closed the case as a
suicide and beat up some of the victim's classmates who went to the police
headquarters to protest the decision. Incensed, thousands of ordinary people
besieged the police headquarters and unleashed their anger.

The Weng'an riot, however, is by no means unique or isolated. In fact, its cause
and violent manifestation are eerily similar to other mass riots.

On Sept. 7, 2006, a mob of several thousand surrounded the local government
buildings and the police station in Tangxia township near Rui'an (in Zhejiang
Province). They were infuriated by the local police's investigation of the death
of a female school teacher under mysterious circumstances.

After the victims' colleagues and students went to the local police station on
Sept. 6 to contest the authorities' conclusion that she committed suicide,
hundreds of riot police dispersed the protestors by force. Infuriated and
aggrieved, thousands of the township's residents, coordinated by cell-phone
messages, besieged the local government offices the next day. They also went to
the factory owned by the victim's husband, a rich entrepreneur who was rumored
to have murdered the woman and bought off the police. Once there, they set cars
on fire and destroyed the factory's equipment.

According to Chinese researchers, similar riots account for roughly 5 percent of
all the ''mass incidents'' that occur in China each year. Because the Chinese
government no longer releases reliable data, the best estimate, based on 2004
data, is that such violent large-scale riots number roughly 3,700 a year (or
about 10 a day) in China).

Although riots are quickly suppressed and do not constitute an immediate threat
to the Chinese Communist Party, Beijing needs to learn several important lessons
from incidents similar to the Weng'an riot so that it can more effectively
address the root causes of mass grievances.

While corruption and social injustice have often been correctly identified as
two of the main structural causes of such riots, two important factors that
often play a more immediate role in triggering public anger are often ignored.

First, local Chinese authorities have repeatedly demonstrated their incompetence
in handling incipient crises.

Typically, a mass riot has three phases. During the first phase, a local
government agency fails to meet the demands of aggrieved citizens to perform its
legally mandated duties. In the second phase, aggrieved citizens peacefully
petition the local authorities, but are treated with indifference or, often,
violent suppression by the government. In the third phase, the mistreatment of
the peaceful petitioners incenses ordinary citizens, setting off a mass riot.

Second, the Chinese government is paying the price for the lack of a free press
in China. Without a free press that enjoys public credibility, ordinary people
distrust the government but believe rumors.

Common to nearly all the reported mass incidents were two striking facts. Local
government officials' words carry no credibility, while rumors, spread by the
Internet and cell-phones, create a cascading effect that further inflames public
passions. (The Chinese government may have the world's most effective system of
censoring the Internet, but even such a system seems incapable of filtering out
rumors.)

There is one solution that would mitigate the effects of poor official responses
and low government credibility - more press freedom. A freer press can force
local officials to be more responsive and careful in handling the grievances of
ordinary citizens, thus removing the immediate causes of mass riots. A freer
press can also counter rumors and help repair the government's tattered public
credibility, a prized asset in preventing mass riots.

In its bid for the Olympics, Beijing implicitly pledged to expand press freedom.
While international visitors to Beijing would definitely welcome such a step,
the Chinese government should see that genuine press freedom is not just
something to impress foreigners with. It is an effective treatment for many of
its social ills as well.

*

Minxin Pei, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
in Washington, is the author of ''China's Trapped Transition.''

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

To control story, Beijing employs adroit strategy

BYLINE: MICHAEL WINES - The New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


In the wake of the deadly riots Sunday in its western region of Xinjiang,
China's central government took all the usual steps to enshrine its version of
events as received wisdom: It crippled Internet service; blocked Twitter's
micro-blogs; purged search engines of unapproved references to the violence;
saturated the Chinese media with the state-sanctioned story.

It also took one most unusual step: Hours after troops quelled the protests, the
state invited foreign journalists on an official trip to Urumqi, Xinjiang's
capital and the site of the unrest, ''to know better about the riots.'' Indeed,
it set up a media center at a downtown hotel - with a hefty discount on rooms -
to keep arriving reporters abreast of events.

It is a far cry from Beijing's reaction 11 years ago to ethnic violence
elsewhere in Xinjiang, when officials sealed off an entire city and refused to
say what happened or how many people had died. And it reflects lessons learned
from the military crackdown in Tibet 17 months ago. While foreign reporters were
banned from Tibet, then and now, the Chinese authorities rallied domestic
support by blaming outside agitators but were widely condemned overseas.

As the Internet and other media raise new challenges to China's version of the
truth, China is deploying new methods not just to suppress bad news at the
source, but to spin whatever unflattering tidbits escape its control.

''They're getting more sophisticated. They learn from past mistakes,'' said Xiao
Qiang, an adjunct professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who
closely follows the Chinese government's efforts to manage the flow of
information.

Chinese experts clearly have studied the so-called color revolutions, in Georgia
and Ukraine, and the protests last month in Iran, for the ways that the Internet
and mobile communication devices helped protesters organize and reach the
outside world, and for ways that governments sought to counter them.

In Tibet, Chinese rallied behind the government's assertion that violence there
was an effort by the exiled Dalai Lama to break the nation apart. But China's
global image took a drubbing after Tibetan dissidents beamed images of violence
to the outside world from cellphone cameras, and officials barred virtually all
foreigners from entering the supposedly peaceful region.

Cellphone videos posted during the Tibet unrest led the government to block
YouTube then, a tactic repeated this year in advance of the Tiananmen Square
anniversary last month. YouTube remained blocked this week. Officials are
systematically tearing down satellite dishes across the region, eliminating
uncensored foreign television and radio broadcasts.

In Urumqi this week, the official response to one of the most violent riots in
decades has taken two divergent paths. Internally, censors tightly controlled
media coverage of the unrest and sought to disable the social networks that
opponents might use to organize more demonstrations. Cellphone calls to Urumqi
and nearby areas have largely been blocked. Twitter was shut down nationwide at
midday Monday; a Chinese equivalent, Fanfou, was running, but Urumqi-related
searches were blocked.

Chinese search engines no longer give replies for searches related to the
violence. Results of a Google search on Monday for ''Xinjiang rioting'' turned
up many links that had already been deleted on such well-trafficked Chinese
Internet forums as Mop and Tianya.

State television has focused primarily, though not totally, on scenes of
violence directed against China's ethnic Han majority. Chinese news Web sites
carry official accounts of the unrest, but readers are generally blocked from
posting comments.

As in Tibet, blame for the violence has been aimed at outside agitators bent on
splitting China - in this case, the World Uighur Congress, an exile group whose
president, Rebiya Kadeer, is a Uighur businesswoman now living in the United
States.

State news agency reports assert that the Chinese authorities have intercepted
telephone conversations linking Ms. Kadeer to the protests. The exile group has
condemned the violence and denies any role in fomenting it.

On the surface, at least, the government's approach to the outside world has
been markedly different. By Monday morning, the State Council Information
Office, the top-level government public-relations agency, had invited foreign
journalists to Urumqi to report firsthand on the riots.

Scores of arriving journalists were escorted by bus to a downtown hotel, where a
press room offered reporters a two-page summary that blamed the riots on Uighur
separatists led by Ms. Kadeer and gave photographers compact discs filled with
blood-soaked pictures, videos and television ''screen grabs'' from the riot. The
government-prepared package recalled a similar set of images, distributed widely
during the 2008 disturbances in Tibet, that stoked widespread anger among
ordinary Chinese against the Tibetan protesters.

Journalists were invited Tuesday morning on a government-escorted tour of one of
the Uighur neighborhoods hit hardest by the violence. But they were explicitly
barred from conducting any interviews without government minders present, and
television journalists who sought to wander on their own were reported to have
been stopped by the police or paramilitary officers who demanded that they turn
over their film.

Western governments and major organizations regularly woo the press with similar
setups

-

albeit without those tight restrictions

-

and the Urumqi junket clearly lifted a page from the news-management strategies
of experts ranging from the White House to the National Rifle Association.

On Tuesday, the Chinese got an unpleasant taste of the strategy's limits, when
Uighur protesters invaded a press tour of one burned-out neighborhood to demand
the release of friends and family members seized by police.

Even so, Berkeley's Mr. Xiao said, the Chinese appear to have decided that it is
better to give the world a supervised peek at the nation's problems

-

Uighur gate-crashing included

-

than to remain silent and let Beijing's critics set the news agenda.

The government ''has revealed what they learned from handling the Tibet
situation,'' he said. ''For Twitter or the Internet, when they see too many
factors they cannot completely control, they shut down and block. But for
foreign journalists, they feel that as long as they can keep those people under
control, it may serve better the government's purpose.''

*

Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting from Beijing, and Ed Wong from Urumqi.

**

CAPTION:

Han Chinese armed with sticks breaking through a line of paramilitary police as
they attempted to attack Uighur areas in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang
region, on Tuesday.

Photo Credit: Ng Han Guan/The Associated Press

**

CAPTION:

A woman yelling as another cries in front of Chinese soldiers wearing riot gear
on Tuesday.

Photo Credit: David Gray/Reuters

**

CAPTION:

A soldier on guard Tuesday at the protests.

Photo Credit: Oliver Weiken/EPA

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

No letup to ethnic clashes in western China;
Muslim Uighurs fight Han Chinese while security forces battle both

BYLINE: Edward Wong - The New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

DATELINE: URUMQI, China


Rival gangs of protesters took to the streets here again Tuesday, defying the
government's efforts to lock down this regional capital of 2.3 million people
and other cities across its western desert region after bloody clashes between
Muslim Uighurs and the security forces, most of whom are Han Chinese.

The fighting, which erupted Sunday evening, killed at least 156 people and
wounded more than 1,000, the state news agency Xinhua reported.

Paramilitary forces fired tear gas Tuesday at Han Chinese protesters armed with
clubs, lead pipes, shovels and meat cleavers. The mob was trying to reach the
city's Uighur enclave to exact revenge for the deaths of Han civilians in the
rioting Sunday, when the Uighurs had rampaged through parts of the city.

In an attempt to contain China's worst ethnic violence in decades, the
authorities had imposed curfews, cut off cellphone and Internet services, and
deployed armed police officers after the first riot, but protesters massed
across the city as rumors spread of new violence being committed by both sides.

Tuesday morning, hundreds of Uighur protesters crashed a state-run tour of the
riot scene that had been arranged by the authorities for foreign and Chinese
journalists. A crowd of women, joined by scores of Uighur men, marched down a
wide avenue with raised fists, demanding the release of Uighur men who they said
had been seized from their homes after the violence Sunday. Some women waved the
identification cards of men they said had been arrested.

As journalists watched, the demonstrators smashed the windshield of a police
car, and several police officers drew their pistols before the entire crowd was
encircled by officers and paramilitary troops in riot gear.

''A lot of ordinary people were taken away by the police,'' said a weeping
13-year-old protester named Qimanguli who wore a white T-shirt and a black head
scarf. She said her 19-year-old brother was arrested Monday, long after the
riots had ended.

The confrontation Tuesday ebbed to a tense standoff in a Uighur neighborhood
pocked with burned-out homes and an automobile sales lot torched during the
Sunday riots. About 100 protesters, mostly women, some carrying infants,
confronted riot police officers in black body armor and helmets who had tear-gas
launchers at the ready.

Later, thousands of furious Han Chinese armed with makeshift weapons marched
from a central square, South Gate, toward the main Uighur neighborhood, where
the riots began Sunday. The first wave engaged in a brick-throwing battle with
Uighurs who had taken to the rooftops of the neighborhood, while paramilitary
troops watched. The troops later fired tear gas from cannons atop armored
personnel carriers to push back the Han protesters.

Li Zhi, head of the Communist Party in Urumqi, appeared at the South Gate plaza
to beseech the protesters to go home. But his speech angered some of them even
more, especially when he repeatedly yelled, ''Strike down Rebiya!'' - a
reference to Rebiya Kadeer, a Uighur businesswoman and human rights advocate in
Washington whom the Chinese government has blamed for the rioting.

At a railroad station, a group of Uighur men, also armed with makeshift weapons,
threatened and chased Han Chinese in the area, The Associated Press reported.
The bloodshed here, along with the Tibetan uprising last year, shows the extent
of racial hostility that pervades much of western China, fueled by economic
disparity and by the government's restrictions on religious and political
activity by minority groups.

The rioting started Sunday as a peaceful protest calling for a full government
inquiry into an earlier brawl between Uighurs and Han Chinese at a factory in
the south in late June. It took place in the heart of Xinjiang, an oil-rich
desert region where Uighurs are the largest ethnic group but are ruled by the
Han, China's dominant ethnic group.

Protests spread Monday to the heavily guarded town of Kashgar, on the western
border, as 200 to 300 people chanting ''God is great'' and ''Release the
people'' confronted riot police officers in front of Id Kah Mosque, the largest
mosque in China. They quickly dispersed when officers began arresting people,
one resident said.

The Internet appeared to have unified Uighur anger over the way Chinese
officials handled the brawl in June. There, Han workers rampaged through a
Uighur dormitory, killing at least two Uighurs and wounding many others,
according to Xinhua. Police officers later arrested a former factory worker who
had ignited the fight by spreading a rumor that six Uighur men had raped two Han
women at the site, Xinhua reported.

But photographs that appeared online after the battle showed people standing
around a pile of bodies, leading many Uighurs to believe that the government was
playing down the number of dead Uighurs. One Uighur student said the photographs
began showing up on many Web sites about a week ago. Government censors
repeatedly tried to delete them, but to no avail, he said.

''Uighurs posted it again and again in order to let more people know the truth,
because how painful is it that the government does bald-faced injustice to
Uighur people?'' said the student, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for
fear of retribution from the government.

A call for protests spread on Web sites and QQ, the most popular
instant-messaging program in China, despite government efforts to block online
discussion of the feud.

By Tuesday morning, 36 hours after the start of the protests, the police had
detained more than 1,400 people, Xinhua reported. More than 200 shops and 14
homes had been destroyed in Urumqi, and 261 vehicles, mostly buses, had been
burned, Xinhua added, citing Liu Yaohua, the regional police chief.

Officials did not give a breakdown of the 156 deaths, and it was unclear how
many of them were protesters and how many were other civilians or police
officers. There were no independent estimates of the number of dead. At least
1,000 people took part in the initial protest Sunday.

*

Michael Wines, Jonathan Ansfield and Xiyun Yang contributed reporting from
Beijing, and David Barboza from Shanghai. Huang Yuanxi contributed research from
Beijing, and Chen Yang from Shanghai.

**

CAPTION:

Han Chinese protesters marching Tuesday in Urumqi. They were trying to reach the
city's Uighur enclave to exact revenge for the deaths of Han civilians in
rioting Sunday.

Photo Credit: Peter PARKS/Agence France-Presse

**

CAPTION:

Uighur demonstrators marched Tuesday in Urumqi, China, to demand the release of
men who they said had been seized from their homes after rioting ended Sunday.

Photo Credit: Peter PARKS/Agence France-Presse

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              June 3, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1002 words


Energy leaders from countries that pump out 75 percent of the world's
climate-changing emissions talked Thursday on the nitty-gritty of putting last
year's Paris climate accord into action, including funding the global technology
overhaul. The annual gathering of energy leaders representing 23 countries and
the European Commission was their first since December, when heads of 195
countries committed to a deal meant to limit fossil-fuel pollution that is
making global weather hotter and violently erratic. The commitment to limiting
global warming to 2 degrees Centigrade will go into effect in 2020, if enough
nations sign on. The United States and China are among countries that have
pledged to sign but haven't yet. Convened up the road from Silicon Valley, the
session was part cheering session for the clean-energy investment and successes
so far, part dire warning for the work yet to be done. "The urgency of this
threat keeps growing," President Barack Obama said in a videotaped message for
the energy officials of China, India and other countries in the Clean-Energy
Ministerial, a global energy-leaders forum meant to push reductions in carbon
emissions.

PENNSYLVANIA

Family sues Amtrak over death of worker

A lawyer filing suit over a fatal Amtrak crash blamed a "colossal
miscommunication" for the deaths of two rail workers killed when a train
traveling 106 mph struck a backhoe on the same track. Lawyers filed a negligence
lawsuit Thursday on behalf of the family of one victim, 61-year-old Joe Neal
Carter Jr. The Wilmington, Delaware, man was working overtime that Sunday and
operating the backhoe when the Amtrak train struck him. "How could the operator
of a scheduled train traveling at 106 mph not know of work being performed on
the same tracks ahead?" lawyer Robert Mongeluzzi asked Thursday. The precise
cause of the April 3 crash remains under investigation by the National
Transportation Safety Board. However, Mongeluzzi said he hoped to determine how
"a colossal miscommunication ... killed two men." The other person killed was
Carter's supervisor, 59-year-old Peter Adamovich.

NEVADA

Officials heed warnings as heat hits West

Parts of the Western U.S. are getting an early taste of scorching summer heat,
forcing officials in California, Oregon and desert Southwest states to heed the
warnings of triple-digit temperatures this week. Organizers rescheduled
California's state track and field championship events to start in the evening
on Friday and Saturday. The competition is being held in Clovis in the San
Joaquin Valley, where daily highs are expected to top 100 degrees through the
weekend. Precautions are also in place ahead of Portland's Rose Festival on
Saturday in Oregon, when the mercury is expected to rise to 99 degrees in the
city and 103 degrees downstate in Medford. Marching bands have asked event
officials if they can ditch some of the pomp and circumstance by taking off
their hats and changing their uniforms during judged performances to cope with
the stifling heat.

INDIA

24 convicted of killing Muslims during riots

Twenty-four people were found guilty Thursday of massacring Muslims during the
2002 religious riots that tore through Gujarat, a state then led by Narendra
Modi, who is now India's prime minister. A judge in Ahmedabad, Gujarat's largest
city, acquitted 36 people for lack of evidence, including a police inspector and
a midranking official in the Bharatiya Janata Party, led by Modi. The verdict is
the latest in more than a dozen prosecutions arising from the riots, and the
first since Modi became prime minister. The judge did not implicate officials
who were working under Modi's authority at the time, and the ruling rejected
charges of conspiracy, casting the massacre instead as an episode of mob
violence.

OHIO

Lawsuit blames death on Dole plant salad

An Ohio woman died because she ate salad processed at a Dole plant linked to a
listeria outbreak, her relatives said in a wrongful death lawsuit. The lawsuit
said that 79-year-old Ellen DiStefano died in February, more than a month after
she became ill after eating a salad that was packaged at Dole's Springfield
plant, the Springfield News-Sun reported. The food processor is accused in the
lawsuit of failing to prevent contamination. The lawsuit is meant to "seek
justice" for DiStefano's family and make sure something like this doesn't happen
again, said Natalia Steele, an attorney for the Franklin County woman's estate.
Westlake Village, California-based Dole declined to comment on the litigation.

OHIO

Report cites progress in Cleveland cops policy

The group selected to help Cleveland implement its agreement with the U.S.
Justice Department to reform the city's police department issued its first
report Thursday, citing progress in developing a new use-of-force policy for
police and criticizing a civilian group for its inability to investigate
complaints against officers and the city for not maintaining the police
department's core infrastructure. The monitoring team is required in the consent
decree between Cleveland and the DOJ to submit reports every six months to a
federal judge overseeing reform efforts. The report filed Thursday is the first
since the judge approved the consent decree's first-year monitoring plan in
February.

CHINA

Report: Tensions to drive defense spending

Growing tensions in the disputed South China Sea will drive up defense spending
in the Asia-Pacific region by almost 23 percent by the end of the decade,
consultancy IHS Jane's said in a report Thursday. Combined regional defense
budgets will grow from $435 billion last year to $533 billion in 2020,
furthering a shift in global military spending away from Western Europe and
North America toward emerging markets, especially in Asia, the report said. "A
number of the South China Sea's littoral states appear to be responding to
China's more assertive stance in the region and there is no sign of this trend
coming to an end," Janes' principal analyst, Craig Caffrey, said in the report.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              45 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 24, 2009 Monday

Hundreds face trial over deadly Xinjiang riots

LENGTH: 594 words

ABSTRACT

Chinese state media says trials due to begin this week in aftermath of ethnic
conflict in which at least 197 died

FULL TEXT

More than 200 people are facing prosecution over fatal riots in Xinjiang,
Chinese state media reported today, with a series of trials due to begin this
week.

At least 197 people died and 1,700 were injured in vicious ethnic conflict in
the regional capital of Urumqi last month, with Muslim Uighurs attacking Han
Chinese and Han later turning on Uighurs.

The official China Daily newspaper said 200 suspects had been formally arrested
and faced robbery, murder, arson and other charges.

However, the article was later removed from the paper's website and government
officials told the Guardian they did not know when the trials would begin.

The China Daily said more than 170 Uighur and 20 Han lawyers had been assigned
to the suspects and the trials would be carried out in their native languages,
implying that most of those facing court are Uighur.

The paper quoted an unnamed prosecutor as saying that most arrests had been made
in Urumqi and Kashgar, a predominantly Uighur city in the south of Xinjiang.

The vast majority of those killed and injured during the 5 July rioting were
believed to be Han.

The riots followed Uighur protests over the killing of two Uighurs by Han
colleagues at a factory in southern China.

On 7 July, Han crowds launched revenge attacks on Uighurs, although paramilitary
police dispersed many of them.

Security in Urumqi remains high, but the report, citing an unnamed police
source, said a "drastic increase in security" was expected during the trials
because large numbers of Han and Uighur were likely to gather in anticipation of
verdicts.

It added that all trials would be public unless they related to charges of
separatism or instigating separatism.

Many Uighurs are angered by Han immigration and restrictions on their religious
practices, and some would like an independent state.

An official at the Urumqi intermediate people's court confirmed that the court
would handle riot cases, but told Associated Press he did not know when they
would start.

Phelim Kine, the Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch, said the organisation
was concerned that cases in Urumqi would echo those that followed unrest in
Lhasa and other parts of the Tibetan plateau in 2008, with "flagrant abuses of
international standards of due process" in what were little more than "summary
trials".

He said the violence in Urumqi had been horrific, but added: "Whatever trials do
take place, they absolutely must be conducted [in accordance] with international
standards and China's own very explicit regulations regarding due process.

"It is encouraging that the Chinese government appears to be recognising
publicly the need and right for public trials in Xinjiang.

"However, we are concerned that we might see a repetition of what occurred in
Tibet, when so-called public open trials were in fact sentencing rallies and the
trials themselves were closed.

"There was no opportunity for public scrutiny of witnesses and evidence against
the suspects."

Authorities have repeatedly accused the exiled Uighur activist Rebiya Kadeer of
fomenting the violence.

Kadeer has denied the claim and accused China of making her a scapegoat. She
said violence should be deplored and claimed the authorities had killed peaceful
protestors, adding that unrest among Uighurs reflected their frustrations.

"Instead of blaming me for everything, [the Chinese authorities] should just
stop suppressing and stop killing people," she recently told Foreign Policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Edinburgh international book festival launches publishing project

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 621 words

ABSTRACT

Collection of specially commissioned work from authors including Roddy Doyle and
Amy Bloom will be produced in collaboration with McSweeney's

FULL TEXT

New work by around 50 leading authors curated by the Edinburgh international
book festival is to be released in a new collection under an innovative
publishing deal involving an award-winning publisher.

Nick Barley marked the end of this year's , sponsored by the Guardian, by
announcing that , will be published in a box set produced by a new Glasgow-based
publishing firm, .

The four-volume collection, on the theme of "elsewhere", will be designed by ,
the critically-acclaimed San Francisco-based imprint founded by Dave Eggers,
famed for the eponymous quarterly literary journal which uses iconoclastic
designs and typography.

In the past, these have included an issue with two spines, another with a
magnetic binding, one in the form of a newspaper, "an issue that looked like a
bundle of junk mail, and an issue that ".

Authors contributing work to the new collection, which will be on sale at next
year's festival, include Roddy Doyle, Amy Bloom, Michael Morpurgo, Jackie Kay,
Yiyun Li, and David Almond.

Barley unveiled the new deal after this year's festival ended with the most
ambitious event staged at Charlotte Square in its long history: an ensemble
reading of  by 18 leading writers, poets and actors, including Ian Rankin, Liz
Lochhead and Cora Bissett.

"This year's festival has seen a wonderful array of writers from around the
world," Barley said. "Our authors and audiences have discussed and debated the
Arab Spring, the London riots, China, India, the influence of social media and
the futures of Europe, cities and even faith."

Among the nearly 800 authors and poets at this year's event were Professor Tom
Devine, Scotland's pre-eminent historian, the freedom of information campaigner
Heather Brooke, Tam Dalyell, the veteran former MP, along with novelists Michael
Ondaatje and AL Kennedy, who also took part in Gray's production of Fleck.

In common with some of the larger Fringe venues, ticket sales and audience
figures this year were hit by some of the worst August weather experienced in
the city in living memory, and by the continuing economic downturn, festival
officials said.

"Footfall" - the overall number of visitors to the small tented city in
Edinburgh's New Town - was down by about 5%, while ticket sales were also down
on last year, from 76% of capacity to 73%.

Andrew Coulton, the festival's administrative director, said: "Having sold
nearly 73% of all seats, we are very proud that our festival continues to draw
such large audiences in a time of continuing economic uncertainty.

"Sales in our independent festival bookshops were on a par with last year, an
outstanding performance demonstrating that - to paraphrase Mark Twain - reports
of the death of the book are greatly exaggerated. With around 190,000 visits
during the festival, even Scotland's wettest August on record hasn't managed to
dampen spirits in Charlotte Square Gardens."

The winners of three major literary awards were also announced, including the .
The , and  award for Red Dust Road.

The 2012 Edinburgh international book festival will run from 14 to 30 August
2012, with the new programme unveiled next June.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            August 26, 2008 Tuesday

Beijing savours clean air while it can

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 1001 words


Zhang Guoqing says the air quality in Beijing is better since the Government
clamped down on tailpipes, smokestacks and construction cranes for the Olympics.

"The traffic condition became less crowded and the air quality also improved,"
Zhang, 58, said while watching ice skaters at the China World Trade Centre. "I
don't want the Government to stop those measures."

Beijing officials say the city experienced its best air quality in 10 years this
month after authorities implemented odd-even driving days and shut down
factories and building sites before the August 8-24 Games.

More than half of 2000 Beijingers surveyed said traffic-control measures should
continue after the Games, state-run China Daily reported.

Yet they won't get their wish. The world's most populous nation needs to create
10 million new jobs a year to maintain economic growth and social stability, so
business will return closer to normal once the Paralympics end on September 17.

"These temporary measures are meant to address the issue temporarily," said Tao
Dong, chief Asia economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong. "You can't
prohibit people from driving their cars. You're going to have a riot."

China, the world's No 4 economy, might have lost as much as 3 per cent of its
estimated 4 trillion yuan ($829 billion) gross domestic product by shutting down
factories in Beijing and surrounding areas for two months, Tao said.

Some factories, including Beijing Shougang, China's fourth-biggest steelmaker,
were evicted from the capital.

Goldman Sachs Group said this month that the affected regions generated about 26
per cent of China's economic output, so the world's fastest-growing major
economy would slow during the next two months.

GDP growth has slowed for four straight quarters, prompting President Hu Jintao
to say that his priorities were maintaining steady, fast growth and controlling
inflation.

There was such concern about Beijing's air quality that International Olympic
Committee President Jacques Rogge said some outdoor events could be postponed if
necessary. World-record holder Haile Gebrselassie, an asthmatic, pulled out of
the marathon because of the pollution and heat.

The city spent about US$70 billion ($99.2 billion) to improve air quality and
build subways, sports stadiums and an airport terminal for the games. Chinese
officials say the measures worked.

The average daily pollution index this month was about 31 per cent lower than
August 2007, the city's environmental protection bureau said.

Major air pollutants were an average 40 per cent lower, with nitrogen oxide
emissions from motor vehicles down 61 per cent, the bureau said.

Even Gebrselassie said he noticed the change. "I was here in February, I don't
see no blue sky," he said. "To keep such clear air, that's fantastic."

Still, levels of particulates known as PM10 were up to double the World Health
Organisation's recommended levels on some days. China's pollution index doesn't
measure smaller particles called PM2.5, which can penetrate deeper into lungs
and create greater risk for developing asthma and bronchitis.

Several riders in the 245km bicycle road race on August 9 said they were
affected by poor air quality.

"First few days when we went out, I was coughing a lot after," said American
George Hincapie, who finished 40th.

Even the archers suffered.

"I didn't like the pollution," bronze medallist Yun Ok-Hee of South Korea said.
"My palms and hands were itchy."

China's release of greenhouse gases blamed for global warming was increasing
more than previously forecast and would swamp pollution cuts planned by Britain,
Germany and other industrialised nations, the United Nations Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change said in May.

China has surpassed the US as the world's largest emitter.

Air pollution-related illnesses and deaths might cost China an extra 3.8 per
cent of GDP, the World Bank said.

Beijing's 15 million residents face higher incidences of asthma, respiratory
infections and lung cancer, said Hans Troedsson, WHO's representative in China.

"The Government is taking measures in the right direction, but it needs to be
scaled up," Troedsson said.

For the Games, the Government said cars with licence plates ending in odd
numbers could drive only on odd-numbered days, and vice versa for even numbers.

Beijing has about 3.3 million cars and adds about 300,000 a year.

City officials said at the weekend that normal traffic patterns would return
next month.

"They should at least try to continue some of these measures," said Ricardo
Browne, 41, a Brazilian pilot working for Shenzhen Airlines.

"It's hard to see the sun."

Steps are being taken. China will restrict factory discharges and may not let
some polluters reopen, and last month it imposed cleaner fuel standards to
reduce vehicle emissions.

The Government will double the tax on large vehicles to spur demand for more
fuel-efficient cars.

"They are meaning business in terms of structural changes that will positively
influence the climate and the environment," Rogge said yesterday.

Beijing editor Zhou Min, 27, said she, like Zhang, wanted the driving
restrictions to continue, even though it meant more crowded buses and subways.

"I fully support the environment-friendly measures since the air quality has
been improved, which puts me in a good mood."

BATTLING POLLUTION

* Beijing spent about US$70 billion ($99.2 billion) to improve air quality and
build subways, sports stadiums and an airport terminal for the Games.

* To reduce pollution, cars with licence plates ending in odd numbers could
drive only on odd-numbered days, and vice versa for even numbers. Factories and
building sites were closed.

* The average daily pollution index this month was about 31 per cent lower than
August last year.

* Business will return closer to normal once the Paralympics end on September
17, but China has imposed cleaner fuel standards and plans to restrict factory
discharges and double the tax on large vehicles to spur demand for more
fuel-efficient cars.

- BLOOMBERG

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

China vows executions for rioters behind killings

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 487 words


URUMQI, China, - China flooded the capital of western Xinjiang province with
security forces Wednesday after ethnic riots left at least 156 dead.

The city's Communist Party boss promised those behind the killings would be
executed.

Ethnic clashes have paralysed Urumqi over the past several days - with minority
Uighur and Han Chinese mobs roaming the streets and attacking each other.

The violence forced President Hu Jintao to embarrassingly cut short a trip to
Italy where he was take part in a Group of Eight summit.

Communist Party chief Li Zhi told a televised news conference that many people
had been arrested, including students.

"To those who committed crimes with cruel means, we will execute them," he said,
adding government forces would crack down on any security risk. He did not give
details.

More than 1,100 people were wounded in the violence, and hundreds of vehicles
were damaged or set on fire in the riots on Sunday.

It was not known how many Uiqhurs and Han Chinese died or who was behind their
deaths.

Li would not say how many of the 156 dead were Han - the majority ethnicity in
China - and how many were Uiqhurs - a largely Muslim minority - even though more
than 100 of them have been identified and handed over to their families.

He said both groups were responsible for the violence.

"The small groups of the violent people have already been caught by police. The
situation is now under control."

Earlier, helicopters dropped leaflets appealing for calm among Urumqi's 2.3
million residents, although the official Xinhua News Agency said there were
"sporadic standoffs" between protesters and security forces, and some minor
clashes. It did not give details.

Hu arrived home Wednesday "due to the situation" in Xinjiang, the official
Xinhua News Agency said. It did not say what action he would take.

In some areas of Urumqi, residents formed alleyway barricades with furniture and
debris to stop a repeat of the fighting between Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gers)
and Han Chinese.

"The government told us today not to get involved in any kind of violence.
They've been broadcasting this on the radio, and they even drove through
neighborhoods with speakers telling people not to carry weapons," said one Han
Chinese man who would give only his surname, Wang.

Hundreds of paramilitary police guarded the main roads to Uighur neighborhoods
and the central square in Urumqi (pronounced uh-ROOM-chee), where the first
riots began. Most were armed with shields and clubs, while a few had assault
rifles fixed with bayonets.

Uighurs say the riots that started Sunday - put down by volleys of tear gas and
a massive show of force - were triggered by the June 25 deaths of Uighur factory
workers during a brawl in the southern Chinese city of Shaoguan.

State-run media have said two workers died, but many Uighurs believe more were
killed and said the incident was an example of how little the government cared
about them.

- AP

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872  words


Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

I 'm in London to report on the austerity economy introduced by the Slasher
Twins, Cam and Clegg, one year ago. Is there gloom?

Unrest? Despair? Apart from the rising prices (energy up 76 per cent and bread
50per cent since 2006), arguing over the NHS (National Health Service), the
collapse of a major nursing home chain (local councils will have to clean up
this mess), complaints about rubbish being collected fortnightly (local councils
refuse to clean up this mess), teacher and railway worker strikes over pension
issues, they seem a pretty cheerful lot here in Britain. Why?

They've just had a royal wedding.

I cannot over emphasise the British obsession with the young royals especially
Kate Middleton, now the Duchess of Cambridge, but everyone calls her Kate. You
can buy Will and Kate fridge magnets, key rings, plates, mugs, trays, spoons and
an imitation engagement ring. You can drown your tears drinking Windsor Knot
Royal Wedding Ale or Knight of the Garter wink! wink! Golden Ale. I do love that
British sense of humour.

Smokers can butt out their fags in a royal wedding glass ashtray.

Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

My favourite souvenir was the Will and it should have been you consolation
chocolate for the frustrated princess. Flogging souvenirs to gullible tourists
is one thing, but this batty, borderline bonkers British obsession with the
royals dominates the media. Every newspaper boasts at least one picture of Kate
everyday preferably on the front page.

Kate's hat gets more media coverage than, say, the Arab uprisings, Obama,
Afghanistan and Israeli troubles combined. Kate's hat is more important than
education (oh dear, school leavers can't add up. Never mind, did you see Kate's
hat?), earthquakes (sorry Christchurch) and riots (China! Who cares about
China?).

Australia cannot compete with the intrigue, fascination and wonder of Kate's
hat. The only news I've read in the British press about Australia in three weeks
suggest we are being overrun by camels, Sydney cats are threatening the possum
population and the Dalai Lama thinks our PM is a man (but she wore a hat to
Kate's wedding, didn't she?)

You would think Kate would get a day off, but it has been a hectic royal season
what with the Queen's birthday and the trooping of the colour, Philip's 90th,
the annual parade at Windsor Castle for the Knights of the Garter (the honour
bestowed on princes read family and 24 other well- bred chaps) and the royal box
at Ascot, all occasions suitable for guess? wearing a hat. And Kate has not let
the team down.

When Kate dares to turn up at an event wearing an old hat she still ranks front
page news, but this time she scores two photographs and the headline "Kate wears
same hat she wore at Ascot".

When the newspapers aren't gushing over Kate's hat, they are fascinated by her
sister, Pippa. Did you know that Kate and Pippa actually turned up at Ascot
wearing the same shoes? Navy blue suede.

The Guardian, a pro-republic left-wing rag which, nevertheless, publishes many
photos of the royals, took on a maudlin tone.

Under the heading "Flummery Without End", columnist Peter Preston bemoaned with
regard to Prince Philip's 90th Birthday bash, "any hopes we may have had for a
more rational Britain are dashed".

Why are the Brits so bonkers about the royals, especially the young royals? Some
say the love of the royals is linked with the British love of sport. They could
bet on what colour hat the Queen wore to the wedding, for instance. Others say
they're like family and hasn't every family got one Beatrice, who turns up at a
wedding in 'er 'orrible 'at. Some say, it's the fairytale, happy-ever-after
thing.

I think the British fascination with the royals is linked to family wealth. The
British middle class used to believe that university education lead to wealth.
Now 31per cent (The Daily Telegraph, June 14) say its too expensive and does not
offer the same opportunities it once did. Meanwhile, wealth remains in titled
families because the eldest son, duke, earl, whatever, inherits the lot. It is
an historical imperative that maintained the wealth of aristocratic families so
the duke, say, could, in days of old, raise an army. Those days have gone, but
the tradition remains.

Can you imagine any Aussie family giving everything to the first born son and
saying to the next son "Bad luck, mate! You really shoulda planned your birth
better."

Death duties have taken their toll of some titled estates in Britain. The new
duke might have to flog a portrait of great- grandpapa, but many grand estates
remain. It is this stupendous wealth, I think, that keeps the Brits interested
in the royals.

One of my favourite cartoons in The New Yorker pictured two American tycoons
sitting in leather armchairs smoking cigars with one tycoon saying to the other
"The best advice my father gave me was 'Here's $1 million. Don't lose it"' (It
was some time ago.)

The royals, however, can go one better. It's hard to beat the parental advice
namely, "Here's a kingdom. Don't lose it, old chap."

Fascinating stuff.

kerrycue@yahoo.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872  words


Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

I 'm in London to report on the austerity economy introduced by the Slasher
Twins, Cam and Clegg, one year ago. Is there gloom?

Unrest? Despair? Apart from the rising prices (energy up 76 per cent and bread
50per cent since 2006), arguing over the NHS (National Health Service), the
collapse of a major nursing home chain (local councils will have to clean up
this mess), complaints about rubbish being collected fortnightly (local councils
refuse to clean up this mess), teacher and railway worker strikes over pension
issues, they seem a pretty cheerful lot here in Britain. Why?

They've just had a royal wedding.

I cannot over emphasise the British obsession with the young royals especially
Kate Middleton, now the Duchess of Cambridge, but everyone calls her Kate. You
can buy Will and Kate fridge magnets, key rings, plates, mugs, trays, spoons and
an imitation engagement ring. You can drown your tears drinking Windsor Knot
Royal Wedding Ale or Knight of the Garter wink! wink! Golden Ale. I do love that
British sense of humour.

Smokers can butt out their fags in a royal wedding glass ashtray.

Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

My favourite souvenir was the Will and it should have been you consolation
chocolate for the frustrated princess. Flogging souvenirs to gullible tourists
is one thing, but this batty, borderline bonkers British obsession with the
royals dominates the media. Every newspaper boasts at least one picture of Kate
everyday preferably on the front page.

Kate's hat gets more media coverage than, say, the Arab uprisings, Obama,
Afghanistan and Israeli troubles combined. Kate's hat is more important than
education (oh dear, school leavers can't add up. Never mind, did you see Kate's
hat?), earthquakes (sorry Christchurch) and riots (China! Who cares about
China?).

Australia cannot compete with the intrigue, fascination and wonder of Kate's
hat. The only news I've read in the British press about Australia in three weeks
suggest we are being overrun by camels, Sydney cats are threatening the possum
population and the Dalai Lama thinks our PM is a man (but she wore a hat to
Kate's wedding, didn't she?)

You would think Kate would get a day off, but it has been a hectic royal season
what with the Queen's birthday and the trooping of the colour, Philip's 90th,
the annual parade at Windsor Castle for the Knights of the Garter (the honour
bestowed on princes read family and 24 other well- bred chaps) and the royal box
at Ascot, all occasions suitable for guess? wearing a hat. And Kate has not let
the team down.

When Kate dares to turn up at an event wearing an old hat she still ranks front
page news, but this time she scores two photographs and the headline "Kate wears
same hat she wore at Ascot".

When the newspapers aren't gushing over Kate's hat, they are fascinated by her
sister, Pippa. Did you know that Kate and Pippa actually turned up at Ascot
wearing the same shoes? Navy blue suede.

The Guardian, a pro-republic left-wing rag which, nevertheless, publishes many
photos of the royals, took on a maudlin tone.

Under the heading "Flummery Without End", columnist Peter Preston bemoaned with
regard to Prince Philip's 90th Birthday bash, "any hopes we may have had for a
more rational Britain are dashed".

Why are the Brits so bonkers about the royals, especially the young royals? Some
say the love of the royals is linked with the British love of sport. They could
bet on what colour hat the Queen wore to the wedding, for instance. Others say
they're like family and hasn't every family got one Beatrice, who turns up at a
wedding in 'er 'orrible 'at. Some say, it's the fairytale, happy-ever-after
thing.

I think the British fascination with the royals is linked to family wealth. The
British middle class used to believe that university education lead to wealth.
Now 31per cent (The Daily Telegraph, June 14) say its too expensive and does not
offer the same opportunities it once did. Meanwhile, wealth remains in titled
families because the eldest son, duke, earl, whatever, inherits the lot. It is
an historical imperative that maintained the wealth of aristocratic families so
the duke, say, could, in days of old, raise an army. Those days have gone, but
the tradition remains.

Can you imagine any Aussie family giving everything to the first born son and
saying to the next son "Bad luck, mate! You really shoulda planned your birth
better."

Death duties have taken their toll of some titled estates in Britain. The new
duke might have to flog a portrait of great- grandpapa, but many grand estates
remain. It is this stupendous wealth, I think, that keeps the Brits interested
in the royals.

One of my favourite cartoons in The New Yorker pictured two American tycoons
sitting in leather armchairs smoking cigars with one tycoon saying to the other
"The best advice my father gave me was 'Here's $1 million. Don't lose it"' (It
was some time ago.)

The royals, however, can go one better. It's hard to beat the parental advice
namely, "Here's a kingdom. Don't lose it, old chap."

Fascinating stuff.

kerrycue@yahoo.com.au

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872  words


Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

I 'm in London to report on the austerity economy introduced by the Slasher
Twins, Cam and Clegg, one year ago. Is there gloom?

Unrest? Despair? Apart from the rising prices (energy up 76 per cent and bread
50per cent since 2006), arguing over the NHS (National Health Service), the
collapse of a major nursing home chain (local councils will have to clean up
this mess), complaints about rubbish being collected fortnightly (local councils
refuse to clean up this mess), teacher and railway worker strikes over pension
issues, they seem a pretty cheerful lot here in Britain. Why?

They've just had a royal wedding.

I cannot over emphasise the British obsession with the young royals especially
Kate Middleton, now the Duchess of Cambridge, but everyone calls her Kate. You
can buy Will and Kate fridge magnets, key rings, plates, mugs, trays, spoons and
an imitation engagement ring. You can drown your tears drinking Windsor Knot
Royal Wedding Ale or Knight of the Garter wink! wink! Golden Ale. I do love that
British sense of humour.

Smokers can butt out their fags in a royal wedding glass ashtray.

Party-goers can buy a full set of royal family face masks. You have to bend
Charles' ears out by hand.

My favourite souvenir was the Will and it should have been you consolation
chocolate for the frustrated princess. Flogging souvenirs to gullible tourists
is one thing, but this batty, borderline bonkers British obsession with the
royals dominates the media. Every newspaper boasts at least one picture of Kate
everyday preferably on the front page.

Kate's hat gets more media coverage than, say, the Arab uprisings, Obama,
Afghanistan and Israeli troubles combined. Kate's hat is more important than
education (oh dear, school leavers can't add up. Never mind, did you see Kate's
hat?), earthquakes (sorry Christchurch) and riots (China! Who cares about
China?).

Australia cannot compete with the intrigue, fascination and wonder of Kate's
hat. The only news I've read in the British press about Australia in three weeks
suggest we are being overrun by camels, Sydney cats are threatening the possum
population and the Dalai Lama thinks our PM is a man (but she wore a hat to
Kate's wedding, didn't she?)

You would think Kate would get a day off, but it has been a hectic royal season
what with the Queen's birthday and the trooping of the colour, Philip's 90th,
the annual parade at Windsor Castle for the Knights of the Garter (the honour
bestowed on princes read family and 24 other well- bred chaps) and the royal box
at Ascot, all occasions suitable for guess? wearing a hat. And Kate has not let
the team down.

When Kate dares to turn up at an event wearing an old hat she still ranks front
page news, but this time she scores two photographs and the headline "Kate wears
same hat she wore at Ascot".

When the newspapers aren't gushing over Kate's hat, they are fascinated by her
sister, Pippa. Did you know that Kate and Pippa actually turned up at Ascot
wearing the same shoes? Navy blue suede.

The Guardian, a pro-republic left-wing rag which, nevertheless, publishes many
photos of the royals, took on a maudlin tone.

Under the heading "Flummery Without End", columnist Peter Preston bemoaned with
regard to Prince Philip's 90th Birthday bash, "any hopes we may have had for a
more rational Britain are dashed".

Why are the Brits so bonkers about the royals, especially the young royals? Some
say the love of the royals is linked with the British love of sport. They could
bet on what colour hat the Queen wore to the wedding, for instance. Others say
they're like family and hasn't every family got one Beatrice, who turns up at a
wedding in 'er 'orrible 'at. Some say, it's the fairytale, happy-ever-after
thing.

I think the British fascination with the royals is linked to family wealth. The
British middle class used to believe that university education lead to wealth.
Now 31per cent (The Daily Telegraph, June 14) say its too expensive and does not
offer the same opportunities it once did. Meanwhile, wealth remains in titled
families because the eldest son, duke, earl, whatever, inherits the lot. It is
an historical imperative that maintained the wealth of aristocratic families so
the duke, say, could, in days of old, raise an army. Those days have gone, but
the tradition remains.

Can you imagine any Aussie family giving everything to the first born son and
saying to the next son "Bad luck, mate! You really shoulda planned your birth
better."

Death duties have taken their toll of some titled estates in Britain. The new
duke might have to flog a portrait of great- grandpapa, but many grand estates
remain. It is this stupendous wealth, I think, that keeps the Brits interested
in the royals.

One of my favourite cartoons in The New Yorker pictured two American tycoons
sitting in leather armchairs smoking cigars with one tycoon saying to the other
"The best advice my father gave me was 'Here's $1 million. Don't lose it"' (It
was some time ago.)

The royals, however, can go one better. It's hard to beat the parental advice
namely, "Here's a kingdom. Don't lose it, old chap."

Fascinating stuff.

kerrycue@yahoo.com.au

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

Russia says handling of Xinjiang riots China's internal affair

LENGTH: 199 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "Russia Says Handling of Xinjiang Violence China's Internal Affair"]

MOSCOW, July 8 (Xinhua) - The Russian Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday that
handling of the violence in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region (XUAR) is
China's internal affair and Moscow hopes the Chinese government's efforts will
normalize the situation.

"We would like to emphasize that Russia considers Xinjiang as an inseparable
part of China and believes that what is going on there is exclusively an
internal affair for China," the ministry said in a statement.

"We hope that the steps the Chinese authorities are taking legitimately to
maintain public order in XUAR will help normalize the situation in that region
in the near future," the Interfax news agency quoted the statement as saying.

At least 156 people were killed during a riot on Sunday evening in Urumqi, the
capital city of Xinjiang in northwest China. More than 1,000 others were
injured.

Xinjiang police said they had evidence that the separatist World Uighur Congress
had masterminded the riot.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0901 gmt 8 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

Chinese magazine says riots on rise as cadres at fault

LENGTH: 619 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 8
September

[Report by Ng Tze-Wei: "Riots on Rise as Cadres at Fault, Magazine Says";
headline as provided by source]

The number of so-called mass incidents -or riots -on the mainland, particularly
those involving more than 500 people, rose in the first half of this year for
the first time since 2005, the authoritative Outlook magazine reported
yesterday.

The report did not give specific figures, but comes amid heightened security in
Xinjiang and measures to ensure Beijing is a fortress for National Day on
October 1.

The Xinhua-affiliated magazine said maintaining security was an unprecedented
challenge this year as the economy slowed and the country went through a series
of sensitive dates and anniversaries, adding that new strategies were required.

A commonly cited figure for the number of riots in recent years is 80,000 a
year, according to Chinese Academy of Science professor Yu Jianrong, a 10-fold
jump from 1993.

Uneven development and wealth distribution, the lagging behind of social
services and corruption all led to a "multiplication of possible sparks for
social unrest, and a lowering of the threshold for a spark to turn into a
flame", the article said.

Internationally, although the changing global decision-making process was
generally working in China's favour, the challenges posed by different social
systems and ideologies were actually increasing.

Since last year and the Beijing Olympics, "maintaining security" has been the
focus of the central and local governments and an excuse for a series of
clampdowns on dissidents, NGOs and lawyers.

But the number of riots has continued to rise and they have become more violent.

Since the ethnic clashes in Xinjiang in July alone, there have been at least two
ast two cases of steel workers protesting against the privatisation of their
firms, and two cases of villagers storming chemical and oil plants protesting
against lead poisoning and contamination of their drinking water.

Thousands of protesters were involved in each case, with the workers at
state-owned Tonghua Iron and Steel Group in Jilin province killing an executive
in charge of the privatisation process. In other protests, police cars were
overturned and buildings set on fire.

With the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of the People's Republic coming
up, officials have every reason to be tense and there is little room for error.
But the toughest challenge remains keeping the conflicts localised, according to
the article. And this requires a change in attitude among local cadres, who came
in for heavy criticism.

The article said some cadres were too concerned with making quick money and
showed disregard for the long-term interests of the public.

Some did not pay enough attention to the petitioners and allowed causes to gain
momentum, resulting in riots.

Some failed to admit their mistakes and turned too easily to the use of police
and arrests, unnecessarily escalating the conflicts.

Others were not sensitive enough to the power of the new media and public
opinion.

Local governments should stick to a "scientifically minded" mode of development,
set up a stability assessment mechanism to detect any possible causes for
conflicts, resolve conflicts at the root, pour more resources into petition
handling and release information on protests in a timely fashion.

The article listed a string of common complaints: government use of farmland;
demolition of city homes; privatisation of state-owned firms; miscarriages of
justice; retired soldiers' and labour disputes; and displeasure at education and
health care systems.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 8 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 6, 2011 Monday

Hong Kong daily flays China over recent instances of social unrest

LENGTH: 821 words


Text of report by Wang Xiangwei headlined "Crisis? What crisis? Policy-making is
driven by disaster" published by Hong Kong-based newspaper South China Morning
Post website on 6 June

The timing of recent major news events that sent tremors through the mainland
and raised eyebrows in the international community may well have been
coincidental, but their underlying messages are definitely not, highlighting not
only the scale of social discontent but also the mainland leadership's peculiar
crisis-driven policymaking process.

Since mid-May, the propaganda machine has been in full gear, showing smiling
Uygurs and citing statistics to praise significant changes in people's
livelihood and infrastructure in Xinjiang over the past year.

This is being done to mark the first anniversary of a high-level central
government work conference that took place in May last year. It was the first
held over the future of the restive region, for which President Hu Jintao
promised massive investments and preferential policies to boost Xinjiang's per
capita GDP to the national average by 2015. He also pledged to eliminate poverty
by 2020.

The conference was a direct response to the riots in Xinjiang in July 2009 that
left nearly 200 Han Chinese dead and about 1,700 injured.

As the propaganda has come into full swing over the past couple of weeks,
protests have erupted in Inner Mongolia.

Ethnic Mongolians took to the streets over the death of a herder in a clash over
coal mining and its negative impact on the local environment.

While the protests were spreading in Inner Mongolia, a 52-year-old man,
apparently angry about property redevelopment, set off three explosions on May
26 at government offices in Fuzhou, Jiangxi province, killing himself and two
others.

Four days later, on May 30, Hu chaired a Politburo meeting to discuss ways to
"strengthen and innovate" social management - a euphemism for social controls
aimed at defusing tensions.

The Inner Mongolia protests, which garnered the most international attention,
surprised many. The so-called autonomous region - which covers more than
one-tenth of China's land mass and is known for its natural beauty of vast,
rolling green grassland and deserts - has been largely peaceful.

But dig deeper, and anger over the wealth gap and perceived social injustice is
a more likely cause of the trouble in Inner Mongolia than ethnic tension. That
is also one of the key reasons cited by analysts as having led to deadly riots
in Tibet and Xinjiang in 2008 and 2009, respectively.

The central government should have seen the trouble in Inner Mongolia coming
long ago. Over the past decade, the region has undertaken massive large-scale
development of coal mining to fuel the mainland's economic growth, overtaking
Shanxi as China's No 1 supplier of coal in 2009.

While this has made the local authorities and mining operators fabulously rich,
the income disparity has also widened between the mostly Han Chinese urbanites
and the Mongolian herdsmen who have complained bitterly that the mining
operations have damaged the environment and grasslands.

Similar simmering anger had been long apparent before riots broke out in
Xinjiang.

Inner Mongolia has also invested heavily in building gleaming high rises and
infrastructure in key cities while paying less attention to the rural areas -
more or less what happened in Xinjiang before the riots.

To the relief of the mainland leaders, the protests in Inner Mongolia started to
fizzle out late last week after the local government's carrot-and-stick strategy
worked.

On the one hand, the heavy presence of security forces prevented protesters from
gathering, but on the other hand, it promised to address grievances using
various measures ranging from more development projects to tighter regulation of
coal mining to more student subsidies.

If what happened in Xinjiang and Tibet following the riots is any guide, the
central government is most likely to greatly boost spending in Inner Mongolia,
with more money going to the poor and needy.

If so, this would be another example of the mainland's crisis-driven
policymaking process. History shows that only crises like the deadly riots in
Xinjiang or the protests in Inner Mongolia are able to focus the minds of
Chinese leaders and propel them to make strategic decisions to move the country
forward.

While the politburo is seeking ways to strengthen social controls, while also
warning of the arduous process required, the Fuzhou explosions may be a sign of
another crisis brewing. As the media attention has focused upon Qian Mingqi and
his grievances, few have realised he is arguably the mainland's first suicide
bomber in recent years who intended to attack government offices while
sacrificing his life.

It is no wonder that censors have banned most of the mainland media from
reporting the incident.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 06 Jun 11

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday

Chinese article discusses government's measures in Xinjiang after 2009 riots

LENGTH: 1561 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 5 July - Yao Gang was about to leave home for a hard job at a
construction site some 1,000 km away from home. Before walking out, the
46-year-old native of the northwestern city Urumqi waved a final good-bye to his
son, who lay paralyzed in bed.

Yao's son was critically wounded in riots that broke out exactly two years ago
in Urumqi, the worst violence in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in decades.

The government says the riots on 5 July 2009 left 197 people dead and 1,700
others injured. The aftermath still haunts, even in a region that is no stranger
to violence in its long battle against separatism, terrorism, and religious
extremism.

Though overseas Uygur groups were blamed for plotting the unrest, China also
looked into domestic woes that left the society vulnerable to the incitement of
violence.

Policies have been implemented to address social problems sparked by the
imbalance of wealth and development, and exacerbated in regions inhabited by
mixed ethnic groups. Unprecedented packages of development assistance were
announced by the central government and governments of affluent regions.

"The central leadership has done some thinking in the wake of the riots," said
Yao Xinyong, a professor with Jinan University in south China.

"The authorities try to defuse tension among ethnic groups, maintain stability
by improving social welfare, lifting living standards of all groups, and
boosting economic development of the region," said Li, who is a long-time
Xinjiang issue researcher.

Recovery

Two years on, the efforts to defuse tension and boost balanced development in
Xinjiang are in full swing as the region recovers along with the victims, though
slowly, from the riots.

The skull of Yao's son was shattered in the chaos of the mob. Doctors have to
use pipes to support his head. His limbs are paralyzed, his hearing impaired,
and he constantly suffers fits of epilepsy and depression.

An official in charge of dealing with the riots' aftermath said the government
offers free in-hospital treatment and handed out subsidies in housing, jobs, and
education for all victims.

The brain surgery for Yao's son was free and the family receives a monthly
subsidy of more than 1,000 yuan (153 dollars).

"But even with that, we still struggle," Yao said. "I have to work to earn extra
money for the family to survive."

"My biggest wish is that my son can recover soon, and we really need more help,"
Yao said.

Tourism plunged in the wake of the riots but has recovered and is poised to grow
even stronger.

On Tuesday, at a unique Uygur-style bazaar in downtown Urumqi, business was
brisk as waves of tourists flocked.

Booths of the sprawling four-story International Grand Bazaar are filled by
vendors, mostly Uygurs, selling goods from traditional dresses and ethnic
handicrafts to central Asian carpets and fur.

Managers of the bazaar estimate that more than 10,000 tourists visit the bazaar
every day.

Xinjiang, with its desert-oasis sceneries and distinctive ethnic culture,
reported a record 30 million tourists in 2010, including at least 1 million
tourists from abroad, government statistics show.

Last year's tourism revenues topped 30 billion yuan (4.6bn dollars), an all-time
high for the region.

Slum Makeover

The strips of shanty towns that once raised eyebrows of visitors to Urumqi's
urban areas are now disappearing.

The authorities have stepped up efforts to tear down mud-and-brick makeshift
houses and replace them with modern concrete apartments.

About 15,000 households in 50 slum areas will be covered by the
government-funded project this year, officials say.

All of the city's 234 slum areas will be demolished and rebuilt by 2012, and the
government will spend another two years to improve community facilities, Xie
Min, deputy director of Urumqi's construction committee, previously told Xinhua.

The sprawling slum areas were home to 250,000 people, mostly ethnic Uygurs
migrating from poorer parts of Xinjiang. The slums, considered the breeding
ground for petty crimes, caught the attention of authorities after a number of
the low-income and jobless young tenants were found participating in the July 5
riots.

Police have often complained of the difficulty keeping track of the migrants in
the slums.

The government has spent 3.6 billion yuan (554m dollars) in overhauling 19 slum
clusters to resettle 6,259 households over the past year.

Ayizumkhan, 77, said she was happy for the comfort of modern living after moving
into her new apartment from the Heijiashan slum a year ago.

She said the government shouldered the cost of housing and gave her money for
furniture.

At Yashan, once known as a "thug town" by local residents, rows of six-floor
concrete apartment buildings have replaced shacks and hovels. A clinic,
kindergarten, and activity center have also been built in the area.

Visitors to Yashan Park have increased as they feel it is safer now that the
nearby slum has been cleaned up.

The government is also pushing forward a plan to install tens of thousands of
high-definition cameras to allow "seamless" surveillance of sensitive places in
the city.

Nearly 17,000 cameras were installed in the city last year, enabling police to
monitor an additional 2,109 public venues including parks, schools, public buses
and streets. Officials say the surveillance will be expanded this year.

Jobs

Creating jobs has been one of the top priorities of the Xinjiang regional
government over the past two years, as officials consider stable income through
employment crucial to lifting poor Uygur families out of poverty and keeping
idle youth away from venting their energy in violence.

Xinjiang, covering about one-sixth of China's land territory, is home to large
stretches of deserts. Agriculture has been the prime sector of Xinjiang. The
development of industries and services lagged far behind those of other Chinese
regions, limiting job prospects for local residents.

Turwinjan Tursun, a researcher with the Academy of Social Sciences of Xinjiang,
said the difficulty of employment was especially true for the southern part of
Xinjiang where the economy heavily relies on desert-oasis farming.

"There are little business in southern Xinjiang, and less large business, so the
capacity for employment is really small," he said.

Two major programs were launched to address the issue last year, said Tian Wen,
the top official of the regional government in charge of human resources
management.

For one, thousands of jobless college graduates, some having stayed unemployed
for years, were sent to job skill training in universities and companies in
China's developed regions, all at the government's expense.

Additionally, each level of government and affiliated institutes were ordered to
generate more jobs on the government's payroll to specifically hire members of
jobless families.

Capable college graduates are also encouraged to start their own businesses.

The central government has also pledged to support Xinjiang's employment
initiatives.

Official figures show that last year about 510,000 unemployed residents in urban
Urumqi got jobs under the government programs. In the same year, about 2.31
million people in the countryside were given seasonal jobs like helping harvests
at cotton-producing bases or were sent away to become migrant workers like Yao.

Both figures were significantly higher compared with the statistics in 2008 and
before.

Xinjiang's unemployment rates are not made public.

Tian said the government was determined to "crack the hard nut of unemployment"
especially in southern Xinjiang so more young people from rural areas would be
encouraged to work in the infrastructure, real estate, and energy sectors.

Development Boom

The central government last year unveiled unprecedented aid packages to boost
development in Xinjiang, a region that boasts of rich oil and gas reserves and
borders eight countries, including key regional trade partners like Russia,
Mongolia, and Kazakhstan.

The central government's plan aims to build oil refineries, heavy machinery
factories, cotton manufacturing bases, and modern animal husbandry facilities in
Xinjiang by 2015.

The development boom will create jobs and bring wealth to the region, officials
said.

The authorities aim to narrow the gap between Xinjiang and other inland regions
as much as possible over the next 10 years, guaranteeing that Xinjiang will
fulfill its goal of achieving a "moderately prosperous society in all aspects"
by 2020.

That means Xinjiang's annual growth over the next five years should reach 10.5
percent per year.

According to the plan, Urumqi will be built into a "core city" in western China
and an "international trade center" of central and western Asia by 2020. The
authorities have planned two new districts in the city to be built with
world-class city standards, a new rail linking it to inland regions and a second
airport.

Nur Bekri, chairman of the regional government, vowed to accelerate the pace of
opening-up on the eve of the riots' two-year anniversary.

"We need to open up more urgently now than ever," he said at an expert seminar
in Urumqi on Monday. "We have lagged behind the inland and eastern coastal
regions over the past three decades mainly because we had not fully opened up."

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0639gmt 05 Jul 11

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Programme summary of Ethiopia's Tigray radio news 1500 gmt 10 Aug 11

LENGTH: 144 words


1. Headlines.

2. Report on timely completion of development projects in the northern town of
Sheraro.

3. A meeting in Setit town discusses education.

4. Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Hailemariam meets business people
in Addis Ababa, who pledged to buy government bonds worth millions of birr in
support of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam being built along the Nile River
in western Ethiopia.

5. The Ethiopian Red Cross Society says it needs 14m dollars to help
drought-stricken compatriots in southern Ethiopia.

6. Report on growing investment in the capital of Oromiya Regional State, Adama.

7. Foreign news: East Africa-Bob Marley Foundation-aid;
Yemen-UN-Al-Qa'idah-fear-call; UK-riots; China-aircraft carrier-inauguration
(rest of bulletin lost because a technical problem)

Source: Voice of the Tigray Revolution, Mekele, in Tigrinya 1500 gmt 10 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                              March 7, 2011 Monday

China: Tibet won't fall apart if Dalai Lama dies

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING, March 7 -- Tibet will likely experience small shock waves when the
Dalai Lama dies, but a Chinese official said Monday that the government would
not now allow any serious instability to rock the region.

Although the Tibetan region is quiet now, it was roiled by violent
anti-government riots three years ago that killed at least 22 people and set off
a wave of protests across Tibetan areas of western China. Beijing blamed the
unrest on followers of the Dalai Lama, who it says are seeking to separate Tibet
from China.

The Tibetan spiritual leader has denied that, saying he is working only for a
high degree of autonomy under Chinese rule.

In the wake of the riots, China closed off the remote Himilayan region, barring
international tourists for about a year. On Monday, Chinese travel agents said
they had been ordered not to allow foreign visitors into the region around the
upcoming third anniversary of the riots. Foreigners heading to Tibet have always
needed special permits in addition to their Chinese visas and must travel with
tour groups.

As part of its efforts to maintain control over Tibet, China regularly maligns
the Dalai Lama, who is the head of Tibet's government-in-exile, and tries to
play down his importance to the people in the region. Tibet's former
Beijing-appointed governor, Qiangba Puncog, said Monday that the exiled
spiritual leader still has religious clout but no political influence in China.

"Of course there will be some small shock waves due to religious factors, but we
will take that into consideration and will surely guarantee long-term political
stability in Tibet," Puncog, who now heads the regional legislature, told
reporters in Beijing.

The Dalai Lama, who fled Tibet amid an abortive uprising against Chinese rule in
1958, remains deeply revered among many Tibetans despite Beijing's decades-long
campaign to vilify him and undermine his influence. The 76-year-old, who is 14th
in the line of reincarnations, has at times insisted his successor would be born
in exile but has also said the tradition could end with his death. He has talked
about dividing his power, with his reincarnation carrying on spiritual duties
while someone else - perhaps someone he appoints - takes up the leadership of
the exile movement.

China says that the reincarnation tradition cannot be abandoned and that the
next Dalai Lama must be born in a Tibetan area under Chinese control. After the
death of the last Panchen Lama, Tibetan Buddhism's second-highest spiritual
leader, Beijing refused to accept the Dalai Lama's choice and appointed another
boy instead.

Evidence of the control China exerts on the region was evident in the order
reported by travel agents Monday. Beijing Youth Travel Service saleswoman Li
Jianyue said the order was conveyed verbally, as is often the case with official
directives that the government does not wish to defend or explain.

"A few days ago, they told us not to organize the foreign groups this month," Li
said. The unrest broke out March 14, 2008.

The top Chinese government official for Tibet, Zhang Qingli, confirmed there
were restrictions but said they were being enforced for safety reasons, citing
possible overcrowding and the bitterly cold winter weather.

Tourists from outside the country were banned entirely for more than a year
following the 2008 riots in Lhasa. China responded with a massive military
crackdown in which Tibetan rights groups say nearly 140 Tibetans were killed.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              July 10, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Uneasy calm descends on riot-hit Chinese city;
Alarmed leaders vow to punish those behind ethnic violence

BYLINE: Ceri Williams

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 534 words


TRAFFIC and shopping resumed in Urumqi yesterday, after days of ethnic violence
in the western Chinese city killed at least 156 people.

China's alarmed leaders have vowed to punish those behind the attacks.

The hundreds of troops that had camped out in the central part of the Xinjiang
capital for the past three days were gone, but paramilitary police still guarded
People's Square and military helicopters flew over the city of 2.3 million.

Crowds of Han Chinese, China's dominant ethnic group, cheered as trucks full of
police, covered in banners reading "We must defeat the terrorists" and "Oppose
ethnic separatism and hatred", rumbled by.

The region's worst ethnic violence in decades has already forced President Hu
Jintao to cut short a trip to Italy, where he was to participate in the Group of
Eight summit and hold talks with US president Barack Obama.

It was an embarrassing move for a leader who wants to show that China has a
harmonious society as it prepares to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Communist
rule in October.

Public security minister Meng Jiangzhu said "key rioters should be punished with
the utmost severity".

Xinjiang - a sprawling, oil-rich territory that borders several Central Asian
countries - is home to the Uighur ethnic minority, largely Muslim, who rioted on
Sunday and attacked Han Chinese after holding a protest that was ended by
police.

Officials have said 156 people were killed and more than 1,100 people hurt as
the Turkic-speaking Uighurs ran amok in the city, beating and stabbing. The
Uighurs say trigger-happy security forces gunned down many of the protesters.
Officials have yet to give an ethnic breakdown of those killed.

The People's Daily, the ruling Communist Party's main newspaper, ran an
editorial yesterday saying the violence was "in extreme violation of China's
laws".

Uighurs say the riots - put down by volleys of tear gas and a massive show of
force - were triggered by the late June deaths of Uighur factory workers during
a brawl in a southern Chinese city. State-run media have said two workers died,
but many Uighurs believe more were killed.

Uighurs, who have complained about the influx of Han Chinese in the region and
government restrictions on religion, said the incident was an example of how
little the government cared about them.

Government officials and state media continued to accuse US-exiled Uighur
activist Rebiya Kadeer and her overseas followers of being behind the violence.
She has denied the allegations and accused China of inciting the violence.

Urumqi's mayor Jierla Yishamuding was quoted by state media as saying that the
government would create a pounds 9.1m "comfort fund" to help families of the
dead, as well as those who were injured or disabled in the riot.

China's top police officer has been sent to Urumqi to offer condolences to the
victims.

Taiwan's government called on China to handle the crisis with calm and
restraint.

"We severely condemn the violence in the incident," Taiwan's Cabinet-level
mainland affairs council said on its website.

It urged Chinese authorities to "show the utmost tolerance in dealing with
expressions of public opinions, protests and ethnic questions".

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            March 27, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

world news bulletin: 600 surrender over riots, China claims

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words


MORE than 600 people have surrendered in China admitting their part in the Tibet
antigovernment riots, police said yesterday.

They also published a list of 53 people wanted in connection with the riots in
which authorities claim 22 people have died in Lhasa. Tibetan rights groups say
nearly 140 Tibetans were killed.

The official Xinhua news agency said more than 280 people had turned themselves
in for involvement in the Lhasa riots. Another 381 surrendered in Aba county in
Sichuan.

Authorities had pledged harsh punishment for those participating in the
violence. The Tibet Daily quoted the national police chief as saying monks would
be subjected to "patriotic education" classes.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

China's Tonga bail-out welcome

BYLINE: McAlley Andrew

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 327 words


News that China is set to bail out Tonga's struggling economy has been welcomed
by a Hamilton policeman, sent to help keep the peace after November's riots in
the Pacific nation.

The riots destroyed more than 80 per cent of the central business district in
the capital Nuku'alofa and left a repair bill in the millions.

Tongan Prime Minister Feleti Seveli has just returned from a visit to China and
said they had agreed to assist in rebuilding Nuku'alofa.

China has announced grants of about $US4 million ($NZ5.4 million) to Tonga, some
of which will go towards improving health facilities in Vava'u and Tongatapu
while the details of a "soft loan" of $US55 million ($NZ74.5 million) are being
worked through.

Sergeant Jim Casson was one of three Waikato police officers who went to Tonga
after the riots.

"I was woken about 3am in November by someone telling me to get up to Whenuapai
air base by 8am," he said.

"I made it up there and we flew as far as Christchurch but were turned around.
Three days later we flew out and I worked in a community policing role in Tonga
for 16 days.

"Things were pretty calm after the riots. The Tongan police have different
methods of doing things but are pretty switched on," he said.

Tonga was the third Pacific beat for Mr Casson.

In 2004 he spent six months in Bougainville in a mentoring and community
policing role establishing village police. This was followed by a 30-day stint
on the frontline in the Solomon Islands.

Mr Casson said he used donated sports equipment to break the ice in each
country.

"On this latest trip we were told there was a no-go area about 2km from where we
were staying.

"We went down there to a netball tournament and dropped off a few balls which
worked a treat, the locals really appreciated it," he said.

--------------------

CAPTION:

ON REFLECTION: Hamilton police Sergeant Jim Casson, who helped restore peace in
riot-stricken Tonga, welcomes news of a Chinese financial bailout. PICTURE:
Bruce Mercer

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Fairfax New Zealand Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Kiwi troops expect Tonga trouble

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 64 words


New Zealand and Australia stepped up their security presence in Tonga yesterday,
with armed soldiers patrolling the streets amid warnings of a possible flare-up
of last week's deadly riots. China also sent a special plane to evacuate ethnic
Chinese, a prime target in last week's rampage, as today's closure of Tonga's
parliament was identified as a potential flashpoint for more violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Drive-by shooting man sentenced

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; NEWS BRIEFS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 563 words


Drive-by shooting man sentenced

A man arrested by police investigating two drive-by shootings in Palmerston
North in October was yesterday sentenced to 22 months in prison. Houses in
Palmerston North and Pahiatua were also raided by police investigating shots
fired at a house on Botanical Road and another on Manson Street on October 2. A
woman sleeping at the Manson Street address was seriously injured in the leg.
Kamura, 29, pleaded guilty on October 17 to unlawfully possessing a firearm and
unlawfully possessing ammunition.

Cossie Club sells off surplus

New Year is a long way off yet, but on Saturday, it will be a case of off with
the old and on with the new for the former Palmerston North Cosmopolitan Club. A
massive auction is being held of furniture and fittings not required by the
Cossie in its new life as part of Club Palmerston, which opened at 22 Linton
Street on November 2. "Everything must go," said manager Jason Burton- Brown
yesterday. Sale items include chairs, tables, snooker tables, shelves, cabinets,
roller doors, an oven, a washing machine, lighting and even some items from the
squash and bowls clubs with which the Cossie has joined forces. The auction
starts at 11am. It will be held at 601 Featherston Street, with viewing starting
at 9am.

Petone scoops fish'n'chip win

Fish Boys of Petone, Wellington, has been crowned the winner of this year's Best
New Zealand Chip Shop Competition. Fish Boys was also the regional winner in the
Palmerston North-to- Wellington section, beating nine other finalists, including
Annie's Fast Food in Palmerston North and Fish King Chinese Takeaways in
Feilding.

Crosby, Stills and Nash to play

Folk rock music veterans Crosby, Stills and Nash will perform for the first time
in New Zealand, next year. De Launay concert promotions spokeswoman said David
Crosby, Stephen Stills and Graham Nash would perform a two- hour concert in
Auckland on March 2 and Christchurch on March 4. Tickets would go on sale
Monday, December 4.

Nats charitable spending solution

National has moved to shut down the controversy over its $112,500 election year
gst blunder by proposing to spend the cash it owes five media outlets on free
airtime for charities. The move, announced by National Party president Judy
Kirk, would allow National to pay the money it owes Television New Zealand, TV3,
Prime, Sky and the Radio Bureau without breaking the law on broadcast
advertising caps.

Kiwi troops expect Tonga trouble

New Zealand and Australia stepped up their security presence in Tonga yesterday,
with armed soldiers patrolling the streets amid warnings of a possible flare-up
of last week's deadly riots. China also sent a special plane to evacuate ethnic
Chinese, a prime target in last week's rampage, as today's closure of Tonga's
parliament was identified as a potential flashpoint for more violence.

Big Wednesday

Draw No 57: 1 2 10 27 35 43. Coin toss: T (Tails). There are no Div 1 or 2
winners this draw; Div 3: $1,068 (65); Div 4: $20 (3186). Div 5: Bonus ticket
(53,390). There are a total of 56,642 winners. Second Chance serial number:
450-08880390-13XX. Ticket coin: T (Tails), Rathgar Road Discount Foodmart,
Auckland. Prize: Mercedes- Benz C240 Classic.

Daily Keno

Draw No 4495: 4 6 17 22 27 28 29 31 35 42 44 52 53 59 66 68 71 72 75 80.

Draw No 4494: 1 3 11 14 15 20 22 29 31 34 37 43 44 50 58 66 67 68 73 76 .

Staff/Fairfax/NZPA

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 178 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                           December 13, 2014 Saturday
                            All_but_Toronto Edition

Ma leapfrogs Li as Asia's richest person on Alibaba's growth; Surge in stocks

BYLINE: Zijing Wu And Sterling Wong, Bloomberg News

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. FP7

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG/SINGAPORE


Jack Ma has become the richest person in Asia.

The 50-year-old founder of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China's biggest
e-commerce company, passed Li Ka-shing, the Hong Kong property and ports tycoon
who has held the top spot in the region since April 5, 2012, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.

"I am nothing but happy when young people from China do well," Mr. Li, 86, said
by his spokeswoman in Hong Kong.

Mr. Ma, a former English teacher who started the Hangzhou, Chinabased company in
his apartment in 1999, has added US$25-billion to his fortune this year, riding
a 54% surge in the company's shares since its September initial public offering.
He has a US$28.6-billion fortune, according to the Bloomberg ranking. Li has a
net worth of US$28.3-billion.

"The billionaires in China are growing their wealth faster because China's
economy is still developing, with plenty of room for growth," said Francis Ying,
an analyst at Yuanta Research. "Hong Kong is already a mature market."

Alibaba's US$259-billion market capitalization makes it larger than Amazon.com
Inc. and eBay Inc. combined, and more valuable than all but eight companies in
the Standard Poor's 500 Index.

More than half of Mr. Ma's wealth comes from his 6.3% stake of Alibaba, valued
at US$16.3-billion. He also controls almost half of the closely held finance
unit and owner of Alipay, a service similar to PayPal. Mr. Ma's interest in the
online-payment company is expected to dilute in the next three to five years
with new investors or stock distribution to employees. Mr. Ma won't realize any
economic benefit from the dilution, Alibaba has said.

Alibaba raised a record US$25-billion in its Sept. 18 IPO, selling shares for
US$68 each.

"If you look at the whole Chinese Internet space as a group, it's definitely
getting very significant," said Tony Chu, a money manager for RS Investment,
which oversees about US$22.3-billion. Alibaba has become "a global stock which
you cannot ignore," he said.

The fortune of Hong Kong's Mr. Li, who controls Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., one
of the world's three biggest property developers, has fallen US$1.9-billion this
year, according to the Bloomberg ranking.

The billionaire started with a plastic flower factory that he opened after the
Second World War. He began investing in Hong Kong's property market in 1967,
after riots from China's Cultural Revolution depressed prices and has expanded
his investments to include real estate, ports and telecommunications.

Mr. Ma, who became China's richest person in August, said being the wealthiest
in the world's secondlargest economy "is a great pain" in a CNBC interview aired
on Nov. 11.

"I never thought I'd be and I don't want to be," he said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2014
Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jewel Samad, AFP, Getty Images; Alibaba founder Jack Ma became China's
richest person in August, although he does not relish his standing. "I never
thought I'd be and I don't want to be," he said in a CNBC interview aired last
month.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

The E-list

BYLINE: Julia Piper, The Province

SECTION: E-WEEKEND; Julia Piper; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 10811 words


COMMUNITY

KIDS/FAMILY

Fantastic Fossils

Explore what fossils are, the ways they form and how to find them. Then cast a
plaster fossil to start your own fossil collection. For ages 3-6 . Surrey
Museum, 17710 56A Ave. . March 1, 10: 30 a.m.-12 p.m. . $10.25, Register at
604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

VSO: Gallop & Go! Let Your Music Shine! With children's entertainers Lisa &
Linda. Listen to trail songs by Rossini and Grofe while you travel on your pony,
with music played by a clarinet, French horn and bassoon. . March 1, 10 a.m. OR
11: 30 a.m. Playhouse . March 2, 10 a.m. OR 11: 30 a.m., Terry Fox Theatre .
$15/$7, 604-876-3434, vancouversymphony.ca

Digging Up Vikings

Learn what archeology has taught us about Vikings by touring the feature
exhibit. Then go digging for Viking tools and jewelry. For ages 7-10 . Surrey
Museum, 17710 56A Ave. . March 2, 10: 30 a.m.-12 p.m. . $10.25, Register at
604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

Family Day at the Farm: Classic Stories

Drop in to the farmhouse and enjoy simple, family-friendly tours and activities
to celebrate classic stories like Cinderella and Red Riding Hood. . Historic
Stewart Farm, 13723 Crescent Rd., Surrey . March 2, 12-4 p.m. . By donation,
604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

Family FUSE: Into the Frame Join artists, musicians, performers and educators as
they take you on a journey of creativity inspired by the gallery's new exhibit
Art Spiegelman CO-MIX. . Vancouver Art Gallery, 750 Hornby St. . March 2 and 3,
10 a.m.-5 p.m. . vanartgallery.bc.ca

Franklin & Friends and Busytown's Huckle Cat & Lowly Worm

Free family concert featuring some of America's best-loved personalities:
Franklin the Turtle and Busytown's Huckle Cat and Lowly Worm . March 2: 11 a.m.
and 1 p.m. . March 3: 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. . Brentwood Town Centre, 4567 Lougheed
Hwy., Burnaby . Free, brentwoodtowncentre.com

The Studio - Bouge de la

A flamboyant fusion of visual arts and dance. In an artist's studio chock-full
of surprises, four young people have fun playing with everything at hand. For
ages 5+ . March 2: The ACT, Maple Ridge, $13, 604-476-2787 . March 3: Centennial
Theatre, North Van, $20/$10, centennialtheatre.com

Young Naturalists' Club Create a Birdy Buffet

Explore the world from the point of view of a bird. From feet to feathers,
you'll be amazed at all the special features of these little creatures.

. Stanley Park . March 2, 10 a.m. (ages 5-9), 1 p.m. (ages 10-14) .
stanleyparkecology.ca to register

Creative Cafe

Open house features a unique, fun learning activity for kids of all ages. .
March 3, April 7, May 5 . Minnekhada Regional Park, Coquitlam . 1-4 p.m. . Free,
minnekhada.ca

Live Owl Show

Meet live owls and investigate their unique nocturnal adaptations. Presented by
educators from the Orphaned Wildlife Rehabilitation Society. . Richmond Nature
Park, 11851 Westminster Hwy., Richmond . March 3, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. . By donation,
604-718-6188, richmondnatureparksociety.ca

The Cat In The Hat The National Theatre of Great Britain's innovative adaptation
of the beloved Dr. Seuss classic. For Ages 3 and Up. . Waterfront Theatre,
Granville Island . Until March 31 . $15-$29, 604-685-6217, carouseltheatre.ca

Red Cedar Book Club

Features books nominated for the Red Cedar Book Awards, plus fun activities
based on the books. For grades 4-7. . March 6, April 3, April 17 . North Van
District Public Library, North Van . Free, 604-929-3727, nvdpl.ca,
redcedaraward.ca

Teen Craft Craze!

An evening of crafts for teens aged 13-18. (No programs during Spring Break) .
Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . Tuesdays until
May 21, 6 p.m. . Free, goretti.mclean@vpl.ca

Teen Writing and Book Club

Bring a favourite book to share, then practice writing in a fun, supportive
atmosphere. For teens aged 12-18. (Not running during Spring Break) . Vancouver
Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . Saturdays until May 25, 2
p.m. . Free, drop-in, darcy.stainton@vpl.ca

Creativity in Motion: Springs, Sprockets and Pulleys

Science World's feature exhibit - enter the mind of a creative genius where
everyday household items come to life through the fusion of art and science. .
TELUS World of Science, 1455 Quebec St. . Until April 21 . 604-443-7440,
scienceworld.ca

MISCELLANEOUS

Mount Pleasant Gathering Places - Past and Present

Join Heritage Vancouver's Isaac Vanderhorst and Anthony Norfolk for an evening
of stories about the 12 gathering places featured in the exhibit Mt Pleasant:
Gathering Places showing at the Mt. Pleasant Library. . Mount Pleasant Library,
1 Kingsway . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. . Free, registration required, 604 254-9411,
heritagevancouver.org

East Van Artsicle

A visual arts potluck featuring Suzo Hickey and Yoko Tomita. . Slocan Park
fieldhouse, 2750 E. 29th Ave. . Feb. 28, 7-10 p.m. . Free

Shop Talk & Cocktails for Women in Design, Architecture & Construction

Casual shop talk and cocktails offers an opportunity to share ideas and be
motivated by other women in design, architecture and construction. . Revel Room,
238 Abbott St . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. . Free, 604-616-0070,
meetup.com/Women-in-Design-Architecture-Construction-Vancouver/

24th Annual Festival du Bois

B.C.'s première celebration of francophone music, dance, craft, food and
culture. . Mackin Park, 1046 Brunette Ave., Coquitlam . March 1-3 .
festivaldubois.ca

JustDance Journeys

A refreshing World Beat dance event held in a relaxed and alcohol-free
environment. . 2114 W. 4th Ave. . March 1, 9 p.m. . $15/$12, justdance.ca

Trumpeter Tabletop Games Society Gaming Night

Historical, sci-fi and fantasy games using miniatures, board games and card
games. Everyone from experienced gamers to newcomers welcome. . Bonsor Rec
Centre, 6550 Bonsor Ave., Burnaby . March 1, 7 p.m.-12 a.m. . $4/$6,
604-538-8786, trumpetersociety.com

Backstage Youth Performers Society

Local singers, dancers, musicians, soloists and groups come together in support
of youth in the arts. . Massey Theatre, 735 Eighth Ave., New West . March 2, 8
p.m. . $19.50-$69.50, 604-521-5050, masseytheatre.com

Gwaii Haanas Legacy Pole: Carving Connections with Jaalen Edenshaw

The story of Gwaii Haanas is being carved into an ancient red cedar to help
celebrate a unique relationship between the Haida Nation and the Government of
Canada. Carver Jaalen Edenshaw explains how his design will represent the
connections between the land, sea and people . March 2: Richmond Public Library,
3 p.m. . March 3: West Van Public Library, 2 p.m. . March 3: Museum of
Anthropology, UBC, 7 p.m. . pc.gc.ca/gwaiihaanas

Historic Stewart Farm: Basic Pruning Learn basic principles and techniques for
pruning trees, shrubs and perennials, plus an afternoon trip to Darts Hill
Garden. . 13723 Crescent Rd., Surrey . March 2, 9: 30 a.m.-3: 30 p.m. . $40,
Register at 604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

Success with Seeds

This workshop will cover the basics for getting your seeds started successfully.
. VanDusen Botanical Garden, 5251 Oak St. . March 2, 10 a.m. . $20/$30,
604-718-5898, vandusengarden.org

VanDusen Garden: Annual Manure Sale

Pick up a bag of spring tonic for your garden at this annual sale. . 5251 Oak
St. . March 2, 10 a.m.-3 p.m. . $6/20kg bag, vandusengarden.org

Cross Country Checkup: Live from UBC

Join Rex Murphy for a live broadcast of CBC's Cross Country Checkup. Topic:
Religion and Public Life . Atrium, Regent College, 5800 University Blvd., UBC .
March 3, 1-3 p.m. . Free, 416-205-7673

Design Sundays: Upcycled Urbanism - Designing Together

A participatory design project that empowers you to reimagine Vancouver's public
spaces. Design and build prototypes in a team environment using modular blocks
of polystyrene.

. Museum of Vancouver, 1100 Chestnut St. . March 3 and 10, 2 p.m. . $12,
604-736-4431, march3upcycledurbanism.eventbrite.com

English Country Dance

Elegant English country dances are taught from scratch by Peggy Roe and danced
to music by Lark in the Evening. Come alone or bring a partner. . Legion Hall,
1407 Laburnum St. . March 3, 7-10 p.m. . $12, 604-325-0703, juneharman.com/ecd

Study and Go Abroad Fair

Canada's largest international university and student travel expo highlights
universities from around the world and student travel organizations. . Vancouver
Convention Centre

. March 5, 3-7 p.m. . Free, 778-998-3587, studyandgoabroad.com

Curator Talk & Tour: A Clandestine History of Contraception

Tease out the goodies of Sex Talk in the City with curatorial lead Viviane
Gosselin and follow it up with a talk exploring the history of contraception. .
Museum of Vancouver, 1100 Chestnut St. . March 7, 7 p.m. . $12, 604-736-4431,
march7sextalk.eventbrite.com

13th Annual Chutzpah! Festival

Dance, comedy, a silent film screening with live music, theatre and music
highlight this annual festival. Features a wide range of eclectic performances
and workshops by international, Canadian and local artists. . Until March 3 .
$18-$40, ticketstonight.ca, 604-257-5145, chutzpahfestival.com

Talking Stick Festival

20th Anniversary of Full Circle: First Nations Performance. This vibrant
citywide festival provides a stage for Aboriginal artists and includes live
music, dance, theatre, multimedia, storytelling and performance art. . Until
March 3 . $12-$25, opening night gala, $40, fullcircleperformance.ca

Gallery Gachet: Open Studio + Garage Sale

An open studio concept with art supplies and the space to create, plus a garage
and art sale with lots of fun and functional items to take home with you. . 88
E. Cordova St. . Until March 3 . gachet.org

TRADE SHOWS/SHOPPING

B.C. Boat & Sportsmen, B.C. Hunting Show

Features displays and seminars for the outdoor enthusiasts including expert
presentations, demos, entertainment and prizes. . TRADEX, Abbotsford . March 1-3
. $8-$12, squarefeetevents.ca

West Coast Women's Show The largest women's consumer event in Western Canada,
featuring celebrities, fashion, food, decor, health and wellness, fitness and a
wide variety of products and services. . PNE Forum . March 1-3 . $4-$10,
westcoastwomen.net

The Outdoor Adventure & Travel Show

Explore B.C.'s largest adventure and travel show offering pre-season deals on
the newest outdoor gear and travel destinations. . Vancouver Convention Centre .
March 2-3 . $12/$10, outdooradventureshow.ca The Vancouver Golf & Travel Show

The largest consumer golf show in Western Canada. Features more than 150
exhibitors, including local golf courses, resorts, travel destinations, golf
manufacturer's representatives and more. . Vancouver Convention Centre . March
2-3 . $12/$6, vancouvergolfshow.com

Vancouver Bike Show

Western Canada's largest cycling show is the place to shop for bicycles and
accessories and see the latest trends in cycling. . Vancouver Convention Centre
West . March 2-3 . $12/ adult, 604-990-7703, vancouverbikeshow.com

Fraser Valley Wedding Festival

Features more than 40 wedding specialists, an interactive fashion show, prizes
and more.

. Cascades Casino: The Coast Hotel & Convention Centre, 20393 Fraser Hwy.,
Langley . March 4, 4-8 p.m. . $5, fraservalleyweddingfestival.com

STAGE

COMEDY/CABARET

Why? Stand-Up on Commercial Drive

A monthly comedy show featuring some of Vancouver's funniest up-and-comedians. .
Tangent Cafe, 2095 Commercial Dr. . Feb. 28, 9 p.m. . 604-558-4641

Improvised Vinyl Cafe

The Fictional's Pop-Up Comedy Jam presents an improvised staging of the hit
radio show The Vinyl Cafe hosted by Stewart MacLean.

. Café Deux Soleils, 2096 Commercial Dr. . March 5, 8 p.m. . $5 at the door,
thefictionals.com

The Giggle Dam Dinner Theatre

Lively rapid-fire comedy skits, musical parodies and impersonations. . Current
show: Spinning the '80s ... Big Hits, Big Hair, Big Hijinks, until March 2 .
Breaking the News, a laughable, ludicrous live report, March 8-June 16 . 2616
Shaughnessy St., Port Coquitlam . $55, includes four-course meal plus show,
604-944-4453, giggledam.com

Lafflines Comedy Club

Feb. 28: The Shooter Show . March 1-2: Damonde Tschritter . March 3: Fundraiser:
Books for Brooklyn featuring Stand Up for Mental Health . March 7, 21 & April 4:
The Popularity Contest Comedy Competition with host Steve McGowan . 530 Columbia
St., New West . 604-525-2262, lafflines.com

The Comedy Mix

Feb. 28-March 2: Hari Kondabolu . March 7-9: Dino Archie . March 14-16: Lachlan
Patterson . 1015 Burrard St. . 604-684-5050, thecomedymix.com

Yuk Yuk's Comedy Club

Feb. 28-March 2: Tracey MacDonald, Garrett Clark and MC Darcy Michael .
604-696-9857, yukyuks.com

Vancouver TheatreSports League

A variety of improv shows, including Improv Test Kitchen, Ultimate Improv
Championships, TheatreSports and Scared Scriptless . The Improv Centre,
Granville Island . Various nights and times . vtsl.com

DANCE

The National Ballet of China: Swan Lake

Choreographed by Russian ballerina Natalia Makarova, this production showcases
the Company's solid foundation in Russian-style classical ballet. Presented by
Ballet BC. . Queen Elizabeth Theatre, 600 Hamilton St.

. Until March 2 . $55-$100, Ticketmaster, balletbc.com

Discover Dance! Israel 'Toto' Berriel & Friends

Afro-Cuban dance and music, featuring an ensemble of dancers and musicians
directed by renowned Cuban percussionist/vocalist Israel 'Toto' Berriel. .
Scotiabank Dance Centre, 677 Davie St. . Feb. 28, 12 p.m. . $12/$10,
604-606-6400, thedancecentre.ca

Motion. Picture

This SFU student dance show is a reflection of the spectrum of relationships and
interactions experienced on a universal level.

. Goldcorp Centre, 149 W. Hastings St. . Feb. 28-March 2, 8 p.m. . $15/$10,
sfu.ca/sca 13th Annual Vancouver International Dance Festival

Features dance companies from New Zealand, Switzerland, Denmark and Canada
informed by techniques and styles as diverse as Butoh and Gitxsan dance. . March
2-23 . $28-$65, 604 662 4966, vidf.ca

Coastal First Nations Dance Festival

A weeklong celebration of the diverse stories, songs, and dances of the
Indigenous peoples of the northwest coast. . UBC Museum of Anthropology, 6393 NW
Marine Dr. . March 6-10 . moa.ubc.ca/eventtickets

Retrospective: 25 Years

Celebrates 25 years of Joe Ink choreographer Joe Laughlin's award-winning
creations by revisiting three of his most beloved works: Harold, Billy, Stan and
Jack; Left and dusk. . Scotiabank Dance Centre, 677 Davie St. . March 6-9, 8
p.m. . $35/$28, vidf.ca/tickets

Vancouver International Salsafestival

The fourth and final instalment of this festival welcomes the global Latin dance
movement one last time with a sizzling lineup of performances, parties and
workshops. . Westin Bayshore, 1601 Bayshore Dr. . March 7-10 . From $25,
604-558-2400, salsafestival.ca

THEATRE

Agokwe

Written and performed by Waawaate Forbister, Agokwe is a star-crossed queer love
story about two teenage boys from neighbouring reserves. . The Cultch, 1895
Venables St. . Feb. 28-March 2 . 604-683-0497, fullcircle.ca

Fawlty Towers

The Vagabond Players present this show based on the hilarious farce by John
Cleese and Connie Booth . Bernie Legge Theatre, Queens Park, New West . Feb.
28-March 23 . $15/$13, 604-521-0412, vagabondplayers.ca

How Has My Love Affected You?

A Family Memoir. Marcus Youssef has a difficult relationship with his mother,
Roleene. When the playwright discovers a storage locker full of her journals, he
begins to delve into her history - and his own. Produced in association with
Neworld Theatre . Revue Stage, Granville Island . Feb. 28-March 23 .
604-687-1644, artsclub.com

Seussical (The Musical)

Timberwolf Musical Theatre presents this musical based on the books of Dr.
Seuss. . Clarke Theatre, Heritage Park Centre, Mission . Feb. 28-March 2 . $10,
604-864-0220

Terminus

Pi Theatre presents Mark O'Rowe's nightmarish vision of one night in Dublin. A
serial killer dreams of singing Bette Midler tunes, a teacher races to save a
former student from a gang and a young woman finds love in the arms of a demon.

. Performance Works, Granville Island, 1218 Cartwright St. . Feb. 28-March 17 .
$15-$30, 604-689-0926, pitheatre.com

Mother Teresa is Dead

Tells the story of a young mother who abandons her husband, son, and comfortable
home in London to work with street children in India, and what happens when her
husband comes to get her back. By the Bleeding Heart Collective . Pacific
Theatre, 1440 W. 12th Ave. . March 1-23 . $17.99-$29.99, 604-731-5518,
pacifictheatre.org

Unforgettable: The Music of Nat King Cole

Actor/singer Don Stewart honours Cole's life through this dazzling evening of
musical theatre production. . Chilliwack Cultural Centre, 9201 Corbould St.,
Chilliwack . March 2, 7: 30 p.m. . 604-391-7469, chilliwackculturalcentre.ca

Extraction

Winner of last year's Rio Tinto Alcan award, Theatre Conspiracy's Extraction is
a documentary theatre show delving into the heart of intertwined cultural
phenomena in China and Alberta. . The Cultch, 1895 Venables St. . March 5-9 .
604-251-1363, thecultch.com

Legally Blonde: The Musical

A presentation of DW Poppy Secondary School's Musical Theatre Program. Based on
the novel by Amanda Brown and the MGM motion picture starring Reese Witherspoon
. DW Poppy Dramnasium, 23752 52nd Ave., Langley . March 5-9 . $7-12,
legallyblondeinlangley.wordpress.com

Four Dogs and a Bone

John Patrick Shanley's darkly funny play introduces us to a dysfunctional,
manipulative and hilarious foursome of show business professionals at odds over
the fate of a film in production. Presented by Egg Theatre. . Havana Theatre,
1212 Commercial Dr. . March 7-16 . $20, brownpapertickets.com, 604-366-3493

Glendale

Join some of Vancouver's most exciting young talents as they present Wade
Kinley's Glendale, a gutsy new play about love, history and the hardened
sacrifices we make in that ever long search for happiness. . Little Mountain
Gallery, 195 E. 26th Ave. . March 7-16 . $15/$12, glendale.brownpapertickets.com

The Merchant of Venice

Featuring three of Shakespeare's most memorable characters: Shylock, Portia and
Antonio in a play of many threes: three ladies, three lovers, three cultures,
three rings and three wise questions. Presented by the UFV Theatre Department. .
University of The Fraser Valley, Chilliwack North campus, Chilliwack . March
7-23 . $10-$22, 604-795-2814, ufv.ca/theatre

The Girl In The Frame

Intimate Theatre Production presents this quirky, modern musical romance. .
Studio 1398, Granville Island . Until March 2 . $25-$28, brownpapertickets.com,
604-307-9451, intimatetheatreproductions.com

Murder on the Nile

Metro Theatre presents Agatha Christie's classic mystery set on a paddle steamer
. Metro Theatre, 1370 S.W. Marine Dr. . Until March 16 . $23/$20, 604-266-7191,
metrotheatre.org

Arts Club on Tour: The 39 Steps

Four gifted actors play over 150 zany characters in this Monty Python-flavoured
Hitchcock spoof that just might give you vertigo. . Until March 9: Surrey Arts
Centre, 604-501-5566 . March 10: The ACT, Maple Ridge, 604-476-2787 . March
12-16: Evergreen Cultural Centre, Coquitlam, 604-927-6555 . artsclub.com

My Funny Valentine

This critically acclaimed, Jessie-nominated play enters the minds of six people
on the fringes of a murder that will forever affect them. Produced by Zee Zee
Theatre . Firehall Arts Centre, 280 East Cordova . Until March 2 . 604-689-0926,
firehallartscentre.ca

Haunted

Toronto-based playwright Daniel Karasik's play explores the territory between
spiritual and earthly wisdom. Presented by Touchstone Theatre Productions. .
Norman Rothstein Theatre, 950 W. 41st Ave. . Until March 3 . $18-$27,
ticketstonight.ca, chutzpahfestival.com

Holmes & Watson Save the Empire!

The fate of the British Empire lies in the hands of the greatest crime fighting
team in literature in this family-friendly, musical mystery presented by First
Impressions Theatre. . Deep Cove Shaw Theatre, 4360 Gallant Ave., North Van .
Until March 16 . $18/$16, 604-929-9456, firstimpressionstheatre.com

Liquid

Not your typical joke-for-joke play, Liquid is a full-length, entirely
improvised two-act performance, based solely on audience suggestions and
contributions. Presented by the Windy City Women.

. Havana Theatre, 1212 Commercial Dr. . Until March 2 . $12/$10,
brownpapertickets.com/event/296597

Picnic

By William Inge, directed by Bill Dow. Presented by the undergraduate students
in the Theatre Program at Simon Fraser University's School for the Contemporary
Arts . Fei and Milton Wong Experimental Theatre, 149 W. Hastings . Until March 9
. $15/$10, 778-782-9561

The Icebook/Micro Performance Series

A miniature theatre show made of paper and light. An intimate and immersive
experience of animation, book art and performance featuring fragile paper
cut-outs and video projections that sweep you into the heart of a fantasy world.
. Anderson Street Space, 1405 Anderson St., Granville Island . Until March 2 .
$10, 604-684-2622, bocadellupo.com

MUSIC

Dave Alvin and the Guilty Ones

Legendary roots-rocker, with Marshall Crenshaw. . Vancouver FanClub, 1050
Granville St. . Feb. 28, 8 p.m. . $28/$25, vancouverfanclub.ca

Douglas College Music Student Showcase Concert

Presented by the Arts at One. . Laura C. Muir Performing Arts Theatre, Douglas
College, 700 Royal Ave., New West . Feb. 28, 1 p.m. . Free, 604-527-5723,
douglas.bc.ca

Funk For Trees

A funky fundraiser for Ramshackle Pictures' new forest documentary, Heartwood.
Features Wood'n'Soo, with the Help, DJ K-Rec, Funk DNA and Midnight Move. . ANZA
Club, 3 W. 8th Ave. . Feb. 28, 9 p.m. . $10, 778-320-8789, ramshackle.ca

Almost Famous Series: Vince Vaccaro

Vince Vaccaro headlines the fourth Almost Famous show. With guests Carmanah and
Rolla Olak. . Joe's Apartment, 919 Granville St. . Feb. 28, doors 8 p.m. .
$15-$20, wetape.com

Rangda

Psychedelic noise-rock trio, on tour in support of their latest album Formerly
Extinct. With Blackout Beach and Nurse. . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings .
Feb. 28, 8 p.m. . $13, Highlife, Neptoon, Red Cat, northerntickets.com

Not Four Pianos

Music for Piano, Violin Viola & Cello by Brahms, Mozart, Faure, Schumann &
Dvorak. Violinist Keith Lawrence presents a series of concerts highlighting the
complete piano quartets of these great composers. . Silk Purse Arts Centre, 1570
Argyle Ave., West Van . Feb. 28, 10: 30 a.m. . $15/$12, 604-925-7292,
silkpurse.ca

Lord Byng Symphony Orchestra

Three soloists are featured in the Mozart Clarinet Concerto, William Walton
Viola Concerto and Schumann 1st Piano Concerto (excerpts). . Lord Byng Theatre,
3939 W. 16th Ave. . March 1, 7: 30 p.m. . $10/$5, 778-737-2454, lbso.ca

Out For Lunch Concert Series

Clarinetist Gene Ramsbottom and pianist Richard Epp perform the Canadian
première of clarinet sonatas of American composer Carl Vollrath. . Vancouver Art
Gallery, 750 Hornby St. . March 1, 12: 10 p.m. . Free for VAG members, or with
gallery admission, 604-662-4700, vanartgallery.bc.ca

14th Annual Sunday Coffee Concerts

Features performers from across Metro Vancouver and Quebec. . March 1:
Genti-corum (folk, Celtic) . March 10: The Karin Plato Quintet (bebop, bossa,
blues) . March 24: The Dal Richards Band (swing, jazz) . Terry Fox Theatre, 1260
Riverwood Gate, Port Coquitlam . 2 p.m. . $6-$12, 604-927-8400,
portcoquitlam.ca/leighsquare

Anciients

Vancouver-based metal band, with Witch Mountain, Tobeatic, Galgamex, Astrakhan
and Hopeleus. . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings . March 1, 8 p.m. . $10/$15,
liveatrickshaw.com

Blues Control

American avant-noise band, on tour in support of their latest release, Valley
Tangents. With guests Von Bingen and Dream Salon. . Electric Owl, 928 Main St. .
March 1, 8 p.m. . $14.50, nightheat.ca

Ernán López Nussa

World-class Cuban jazz pianist, with 'A' Band and NiteCap . NSCU Centre,
Capilano University, North Van . March 1, 8 p.m. . $32/$29, 604-990-7810,
capilanou.ca/nscucentre

Gender Failure

Original music and words with author Ivan Coyote and musician Rae Spoon.
Presented by the Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice. .
Telus Studio Theatre, 6265 Crescent Rd., UBC . March 1, 7: 30 p.m. . Free

Squamish Music Festival Launch Party

Festival producers will announce the artist lineup for the Squamish Valley Music
Festival taking place Aug. 9 and 10. Features performances by Yukon Blonde and
Diamond Rings. . Commodore Ballroom . March 1, 8 p.m. . $20, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

The View

Scottish indie rock band. . Media Club, 695 Cambie St. . March 1, 9: 30 p.m. .
$15, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

We Care A Lot: A Righteous Rock 'n' Roll Benefit

Featuring the Hathaways, Liquor Kings, Orchard Pinkish and guests. Fundraiser
for Community of Care for Survivors of Torture. . WISE Hall, 1882 Adanac St. .
March 1, 8 p.m. . $8, 778-891-5059, survivorsoftorture.com

Destroy Vancouver V

Experimental music series curated by drummer and composer John Brennan,
featuring noise, drone, DIY, free jazz and noise punk. . VIVO Media Arts, 1965
Main St. . March 2, 8: 30 p.m. . $15, 604-872-8337, ext. 3, vivomediaarts.com

Justin Rutledge

Toronto-based alt-country singer-songwriter. . CBC Studio 700, 700 Hamilton St.
. March 2, 8 p.m. . $20, thefestival.bc.ca

LeAnn Rimes

American country/pop singer-songwriter. . Red Robinson Show Theatre, Coquitlam .
March 2, 8 p.m. . $69.50-$89.50, Ticketmaster

Nadastrom

L.A.-based DJ-producer duo, with Dr. Seiz and JP Valde$. . Electric Owl, 928
Main St. . March 2, 10 p.m. . $20, ticketzone.com

NoMeansNo

Canadian progressive punk rock music group . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings .
March 2, 8 p.m. . $22, liveatrickshaw.com

Raising Change

Part music project, part music mission, Raising Change is a group of musicians
who have joined in the cause of presence raising funds for Stroke Recovery B.C.
. Evergreen Cultural Centre, 1205 Pinetree Way, Coquitlam . March 2, 8 p.m. .
$30, 604-927-6555, evergreenculturalcentre.ca

The Slackers

Ska band from New York, with guests Heads Hang Heavy and Ivy League Brawlers. .
Korean Hall, 1320 E. Hastings . March 2, doors 8 p.m. . $22.50, Zulu, Highlife,
Red Cat, ticketweb.ca, victoriaskafest.ca

WHY?

American alternative hip hop and indie rock band. With Dream Tiger and guests .
Biltmore Cabaret, 2755 Prince Edward St. . March 2, 7: 30 p.m. . $16, Red Cat,
Zulu, Beat Street, the Biltmore, ticketweb.ca, 604-676-0541, biltmorecabaret.com

Yemen Blues

21st century brew of Yemenite-Jewish song and poetry, West African grooves and
American jazz, blues and funk . Venue, 881 Granville St. . March 2, 8 p.m. .
$30/$25, chutzpahfestival.com

Fanfare!

Vancouver's Christ Church Cathedral Choir and director/organist Rupert Lang
present a concert of works spotlighting the Kenneth Jones' pipe organ and choral
works. . Christ Church Cathedral, 690 Burrard St. . March 2, 4 p.m. . $25,
604-682-3848, bpt.me/329352

Knigge Piano Competition: Final Round

Pianists from across Canada compete for prizes and a solo recital spot at UBC. .
Barnett Hall, UBC Music Building, 6361 Memorial Rd. . March 2, 9 a.m. . Free,
604822-5574, music.ubc.ca

Lions Gate Sinfonia: Classical Celtic Crossover

Featuring guest artists from the North Shore Celtic Ensemble. . Centennial
Theatre, 2300 Lonsdale, North Van . March 2, 7: 30 p.m. . $12-$39, 604-984-4484,
centennialtheatre.com

Mass Enlightenment: Laudate Singers

Palestrina to Poulenc, Dufay to Kosti-ainen: 500 years of praise celebrated by
the voices of Laudate Singers. . March 2, 8 p.m. at St. Andrews United Church,
1044 St. Georges Ave., North Van . March 8 at 8 p.m., Holy Rosary Cathedral, 646
Richards St. . $10-$25, 604-729-6814, laudatesingers.com

Pacific Baroque Orchestra: Concert III - Purcell & Friends

Marc Destrubé leads the PBO in a concert of sonatas and fantasias by the Henry
Purcell and his contemporaries. . March 2: St. Mark's Anglican Church, 1805
Larch St., 7: 30 p.m. . March 3: West Vancouver United Church, 2062 Esquimalt
Ave., 2: 30 p.m. . $10-$35, pacificbaroque.com

VSO: Romeo and Juliet

Young conductor José Luis Gómez presides over this concert featuring some of the
best-known pieces from the Russian repertoire, and Chopin's Piano Concerto No.
2, with pianist Dina Yoffe. . March 2: Orpheum Theatre . March 4: Centennial
Theatre, North Van . 8 p.m. . $17-$62, 604-876-3434, vancouversymphony.ca

Café Paris

Musicians Jasper Wood and Daniel Bolshoy, collectively known as Duo Rendezvous,
celebrate the finest that Paris has to offer. . Chilliwack Cultural Centre, 9201
Corbould St. . March 3, 2: 30 p.m. . 604-391-7469, chilliwackculturalcentre.ca

Knigge Piano Competition: Winners Showcase Concert

Winners from the Knigge Piano Competition perform. . Barnett Hall, 6361 Memorial
Rd. . March 3, 2 p.m. . $10/$5, 604-822-5574, music.ubc.ca

New Westminster Symphony Orchestra: Classical Pops Concert

Works include Mozart's Impressario Overture, Beethoven's Triple Concerto and
Brahms' Serenade No. 1. . Massey Theatre, 735 Eighth Ave., New West . March 3, 2
p.m. . By donation, 604-521-5050, masseytheatre.com

Norma

Opera Pro Cantanti presents Bellini's masterpiece about personal and political
betrayal. . Cambrian Hall, 215 E. 17th Ave. . March 3, 7 p.m. . $18/$12,
604-3408545, procantanti.com

Opera Tea on the Stage

Enjoy arias and excerpts being performed by upcoming stars in an intimate
setting. . Old Auditorium, 6344 Memorial Road, UBC . March 3, 2 p.m. . $20/$15,
604-822-6725, music.ubc.ca

The Gallery Singers: Bach Cantata Project

Jonathan Quick conducts the Gallery Singers and a company of strings in a
performance of Bach and Handel. . Canadian Memorial Church, 1806 W. 15th Ave. .
March 3, 3 p.m. . $26/$24, 604-228-0070, gallerysingers.ca Ana Moura Portugal's
brightest star of fado. . NSCU Centre, Capilano University, North Van . March 3,
8 p.m. . $35/$32, 604-990-7810, capilanou.ca/nscucentre

Big Bang: Fringe Percussion & Community Ensemble

A work for 9 to 90 percussionists, Alaskan composer John Luther Adam's Inuksuit
will fill the atrium with ethereal and spectacular sounds. . Centre for
Interactive Research on Sustainability, 2260 West Mall, UBC . March 3 . By
donation, newmusic.org

Psychic Ills

Experimental rock/psychedelic rock band from New York. With Follakzoid (tickets
for the original Waldorf show will be honoured at the door) . Electric Owl, 928
Main St. . March 3, 8 p.m. . Tickets at Zulu, Red Cat, Highlife, nightheat.ca,
604-558-0928

Swingin' Utters

Punk-rock band from Santa Cruz, California, on tour in support of their latest
release, Poorly Formed. With Wild Roses . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings .
March 3 . $15, Neptoon, Zulu, Red Cat, Highlife, northerntickets.com

Darwin Deez

American indie rock band, on tour to support their new release Songs For
Imaginative People. With guests Caged Animals. . Fortune Sound Club, 147 E.
Pender St. . March 4, 9: 30 p.m. . $13, Red Cat, Zulu, ticketweb.ca

2 Live Crew

Controversial rap group from Miami with the World Famous XXX Dancers and guests
My!Gay!Husband!, Cherchez La Femme, Too High Crew and the PhonoGraff. . Fortune
Sound Club, 147 E. Pender St. . March 5, (note new date, tickets for the Jan. 23
show honoured at the door) . fortunesoundclub.com

Voices of the Dark Tour

With Italian gothic metal/doom metal band the Foreshadowing and Death Wolf. .
Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings . March 5, 6 p.m. . $35/$30, Scrape,
ticketweb.ca, liveatrickshaw.com

Roberto Turrin: Performance Lecture

Italian pianist Roberto Turrin explores and performs piano music inspired by
Commedia dell'Arte, a 'Comedy of Craft' developed in Italy in the 16th and 17th
centuries. . Vancouver Academy of Music, 1270 Chestnut St. . March 5, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604-734-2301, vam.ca

The Dawn of Virtuosity

Trumpet player Kris Kwapis and harpsichordist Mehan Esfahani recreate an event
that event that sent a shock throughout the musical world in the 17th century: a
recital where the trumpet was featured for the first time in history in a
concert performance. . Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club, 3611 W. Broadway . March 5,
8 p.m. . $25, earlymusic.bc.ca

Musical Mornings: Sarah Hagen & Ken Lavigne

Features acclaimed pianist Sarah Hagen with guest tenor Ken Lavigne. . Evergreen
Cultural Centre, 1205 Pinetree Way, Coquitlam . March 6, 10 a.m. . $22,
604-927-6555, evergreenculturalcentre.ca

Wednesday Noon Hours

Daniel Bolshoy guitar: Michael Karmon: Next Year, Sergio Assad: Aquerelle, plus
works by Barrios, Sainz de la Maza and more. . Barnett Hall, 6361 Memorial Rd.,
UBC . March 6, 12 p.m. . $5 at the door, cash only, 604-822-5574, music.ubc.ca

CMT Hitlist Tour

Featuring Emerson Drive, Doc Walker and guest Aaron Pritchett . Vogue Theatre,
918 Granville . March 6, 8 p.m. . Tickets at northerntickets.com

Ingrid Gatin

The Accordion Noir radio show presents Winnipeg's siren of the squeezebox,
Ingrid Gatin, with Twin Voices and Zaac Pick. . Railway Club, 579 Dunsmuir St. .
March 6, 8: 30 p.m. . $8, 604-566-4745

Ross Neilsen

Solo show by New Brunswick blues rocker, in support of his latest release, The
Shack Up Sessions. . Bozzini's Upstairs Lounge, 45739 Hocking Ave., Chilliwack .
March 6, 7: 30 p.m. . $15, 604-792-0744, bozzinischilliwack.com

Sarah Slean

Canadian singer-songwriter takes Sea on the road, performing with Orchestral
Strings. . Rio Theatre, 1660 E. Broadway . March 6, 8 p.m. . $30, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

Shout Out Out Out Out

Edmonton-based dance punk/electro group. . Biltmore Cabaret, 2755 Prince Edward
St. . March 6, Late show, doors 11 p.m. . $14, Red Cat, Ticketmaster

Thao with the Get Down Stay Down

From California, alternative folk rock music group, on tour in support of their
latest album, We the Common. With guests Sallie Ford and the Sound Outside. .
Fortune Sound Club, 147 E. Pender St. . March 6, 9: 30 p.m. . $18/$15, Red Cat,
northerntickets.com

Autre né Veut

From Brooklyn, electro-pop musician, on tour to support his latest release
Anxiety. With Special Guests Majical Cloudz. . Electric Owl, 928 Main St. .
March 7, 9: 30 p.m. . $12, Red Cat, Zulu, Highlife, Beatstreet, ticketweb.ca

Jazz Casual at Hycroft

The Vancouver Women's University Club hosts an evening of swinging jazz,
featuring bassist Jodi Proznick. . Hycroft Manor, 1489 McRae . March 7, 6 p.m.
wine bar and appetizers, 7 p.m. concert . $28/$20, 604 731-4661, uwcvancouver.ca

Method Man

American rapper and member of the hip hop collective Wu-Tang Clan. . Commodore
Ballroom . March 7, 9: 30 p.m. . $40, Beat-street, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

Sylvia Herold and the Rhythm Bugs

Lighthearted swing and mid-century pop songs in lush three-part harmony. . St.
James Hall, 3214 W. 10th Ave. . March 7, 8 p.m. . $20/$16, Highlife, Rufus'
Guitar Shop, 604-736-3022, roguefolk.bc.ca

The Real McKenzies

A potent concoction of classic punk, rock n' roll, hard folk and traditional
Celtic influence. With guests the East End Radicals . WISE Hall, 1882 Adanac St.
. March 7, 9: 15 p.m. . $15, Red Cat, Highlife, brownpapertickets.com,
wisehall.ca

Trust

Toronto-based duo, with Eraas. . Venue, 881 Granville St. . March 7, doors 8
p.m. . $14, Red Cat, Ticketmaster

Trust

Toronto-based duo Robert Alfons and Maya Postepski. With guests Eraas. . Venue,
881 Granville St. . March 7, doors 8 p.m. . $14, Red Cat, Ticketmaster

Music for Art

Members of Lions Gate Sinfonia perform a special concert inspired by the current
exhibition, Looking from the Outside. . Silk Purse Arts Centre, 1570 Argyle
Ave., West Van . March 7, 10: 30 a.m. . $15/$12, 604-925-7292, silkpurse.ca

VSO Chamber Players: French Masters

Musicians from the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra perform chamber music by French
composers Poulenc, Debussy and Francaix. . March 7 at 7: 30 p.m., March 10 at 2
p.m. . Pyatt Hall . $35, 604-876-3434, vancouversymphony.ca

Alicia Keys

Fourteen-time Grammy-winning singer, songwriter and producer, on tour in support
of her new album, Girl on Fire. With guest, Miguel. . Rogers Arena . March 8, 8
p.m. . $40.50-$126, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

B.B. King

For the past six decades, there has been only one 'King of the Blues' - Riley B.
King - affectionately known as B.B. King. . River Rock Show Theatre, Richmond .
March 8, 8 p.m. . $104.50/$94.50, Ticketmaster, riverrock.com

Big Bang: Fringe Percussion - Aiyun Huang & Katie Rife

A program of varied percussion works by Harrison Birtwistle, John Cage, Carlos
Chavez and Lou Harrison. . Orpheum Annex, 823 Seymour St. . March 8, 8 p.m. .
$35/$19, brownpapertickets.ca, newmusic.org

Joanna Chapman-Smith: International Women's Day Concert and CD Release

Canadian singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist . St. James Hall, 3214 W.
10th Ave. . March 8, 8 p.m. . $20/$16, Highlife, Rufus' Guitar Shope,
604-736-3022, roguefolk.bc.ca

Paul Revere and the Raiders

This American rock band saw considerable U.S. mainstream success in the second
half of the '60s and early '70s . Red Robinson Show Theatre, Coquitlam . March
8, 8 p.m. . $49.50/$39.50, Ticketmaster

Roska

DJ-producer from the UK, with Combine and Dr. Seiz. . Electric Owl, 928 Main St.
. March 8, 11: 30 p.m. . $15, ticketzone.com

Strong Women, Strong Music 2013

Jazz and blues concert in support of Atira, featuring Karin Plato, Laura Crema,
Jillian Lebeck, Astrid Sars, Karen Graves, Jodi Proznick and Sherri Chisholm. .
Ironworks Studio, 235 Alexander St. . March 8, 7 p.m. . $35/$30, 604-331-1407,
Ext 104, atira.bc.ca

Terri Clark

Juno-winning country music artist. . Abbotsford Arts Centre, Abbotsford . March
8, 7: 30 p.m. . 1-866-977-2372, abbotsfordcentre.ca

Big Bang: Mantra Percussion

Michael Gordon's Timber, a unique work co-commissioned and performed by New
York-based ensemble Mantra Percussion. . Orpheum Theatre, 823 Seymour St. .
March 9, 8 p.m. . $35/$19, brownpapertickets.ca, newmusic.org

Cadence

A cappella quartet creates a full range of instrumental and vocal sounds using
only their voice. . Evergreen Cultural Centre, 1205 Pinetree Way, Coquitlam .
March 9, 8 p.m. . $15-$35, 604-9276555, evergreenculturalcentre.ca

Electric Six

Six-piece Detroit-based band plays rock infused with elements of garage, disco,
punk rock, New wave and metal. . Venue, 881 Granville St. . March 9, early show,
doors 7 p.m. . $20, Red Cat, Zulu, ticketweb.ca, venuelive.ca

Hollywood Undead

Rap-rock band from L.A. With Abandon All Ships. . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E.
Hastings . March 9, doors 7 p.m. . $25, Zulu, Scrape, ticketfly.com,
unionevents.com

K-Ci & Jojo with Aaron Hall

Great night of R&B with brothers K-Ci and Jojo and singer-songwriter Aaron Hall.
With special guest Doug E. Fresh . Saturday, March 9, 8 p.m. . River Rock Show
Theatre, Richmond . $89.50/$69.50, Ticketmaster, riverrock.com

Marcus Foster

From London, singer-songwriter, on tour to support his latest EP release The
Last House. With guests Sean Rowe and Ruston Kelly . Media Club, 695 Cambie .
March 9, 9 p.m. . $12, Red Cat, Zulu, ticketweb.ca, VIP packages/$60 at
ticketweb.ca

Mariachi Trubachi

A festive evening of Mexican and Balkan Brass wedding music, featuring Mariachi
Los Dorados and Orkestar Slivovica, plus dance performances by Gradina Balkan
Dancers and Mexico Vivo Dancers. . Russian Hall, 600 Campbell St. . March 9, 8
p.m. . $25/$20, Highlife, caravanbc.com

Maroon 5

American pop-rock band on their Overexposed North American Concert Tour. With
guests Neon Trees, Owl City . Rogers Arena . March 9, 8 p.m. . $29.50-$89.50,
Ticketmaster, livenation.com

Martha Wainwright

Folk-rock singer-songwriter is the daughter of folk legends Loudon Wainwright
III and Kate McGar-rigle. . Rio Theatre, 1660 E. Broadway . March 9, 8 p.m. .
$30, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

Pat Chessell CD Release Concert

The Pat Chessell Band will be firing up Blue Frog Studios for a foot-stomping
night of upbeat Irish and Celtic music. . Blue Frog Recording Studio, 1328
Johnston Rd., White Rock . March 9, 7: 30 p.m. . $25, 604-542-3055,
bluefrogstudios.ca

Rock Shock and Awe 4

Featuring Parokya Ni Edgar, Gloc 9 and Mocha Girls . Vogue Theatre, 918
Granville St . March 9, 7 p.m. . $60, northerntickets.com

Vic Ruggiero

Slackers vocalist and keyboard player Vic Ruggiero gives a solo presentation,
with guests Kyle Fury from Los Furios, the Devil in the Woodshack. . Pats Pub,
403 E. Hastings . March 9 . $10, Zulu, Red Cat, Highlife, Neptune

Diego's Umbrella

San Francisco's ambassadors of Gypsy rock. . Vancouver FanClub, 1050 Granville
St. . March 10, 6 p.m. . $20/$17, vancouverfanclub.ca

Great Big Sea

Folk-rock band from Newfoundland and Labrador, known for performing energetic
rock interpretations of traditional Newfoundland folk songs . Orpheum Theatre .
March 10, 8 p.m. . $39.50-$85, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

NIGHTSPOTS

THURSDAY

Backstage Lounge The Phonix

Biltmore Cabaret Baptists album release

Bimini Public House The Whiskey Songs

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club Itamar Borochov Quartet

El Barrio Waxwing

Fairview Pub John Nolan Jazz Ensemble, Brick-house

Fortune Sound Club Shlohmo Laid Out Tour with D33J, 8prn, #Basedgoth

Funky Winkerbeans The Evil Bastard Scaryoke Experience

Ginger 62 High Society with DJs Lajit and Goddess

Granville Room Reverb Thursday: House with DJ Johnny Omega

Heritage Grill Bent Nails

Hooker's Green Classic rock with DJ Flipout

Killjoy Barbers Bottle Rocket Thursdays with Tyson V

Lamplighter Public House Rock Steady Thursdays: Mostly Marley Four Year
Anniversary

Library Square Public House The Damn Fools

Media Club Data Romance, Evy Jane and Olav (DJ set)

Naam The Land of Deborah

Railway Club Rail Entertainment presents

Rickshaw Rangda, with Blackout Beach, Nurse, V. Vecker Ensemble

Shine Nightclub Disco and punk with DJs Tyler Fedchuck, Cam Dales

Trees on Granville Open Mic Night with host Ev

Vancouver FanClub Dave Alvin and the Guilty Ones, with Marshall Crenshaw

FRIDAY

Backstage Lounge Sljivovica Social Club Balkan Night with Orkestar Slivovica

Bar None Grand St. Fridays: Chart/remixes with DJs Downlowe, Kidd, Yurie

Bimini Public House Soul, funk & dance with DJ Kenya

The Calling Public House Round-Up Fridays

Charles Bar The Jump Off with DJ Dash: Top 40, dance, '90s hip hop and R&B

Cinema Public House Cinema Fridays: Chart, dance, remixes with DJs Seko, Matty C

Clough Club Hip hop with DJ She

Commodore Ballroom Squamish Valley Music Festival Launch Party with Yukon
Blonde, Diamond Rings

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club David Hazeltine

Electric Owl Blues Control with Von Bingen and Dream Salon, Gang Signs remix EP
release, Fun Fun Fun

Fairview Pub Blues with Arson Shomakhov (early), Zeppelina all-female Led
Zeppelin tribute, Spirit Walker Cult tribute, Bull on Parade Rage Against the
Machine tribute (late)

Fortune Sound Club Michael Red, Lee Spielman

Funky Winkerbeans Wett Stilettos, Snakebite, Guts & Glory, Sexloader Ginger 62
Socielle Fridays with DJs Jamie Van Goul-den, Harvard Law, Tyson V

Granville Room Chart & remixes with DJ Lokoboy

Hooker's Green Anthems with DJ Thomas Maxey

Killjoy Barbers Classic house with DJ J. Morel

Lamplighter Public House We Salute You Fridays with Ernold Sane & P. Deady

Library Square Public House Show Me Love '90s Dance Party with DJ Ana

Media Club The View

Pivo Rotating guest DJs play lounge, Top 40

Railway Club Live Rust Neil Young Tribute, the Twitch, Tongue Rolling Stones
Tribute

Red Room Ultrabar Cancun Nite Fridays

Rickshaw Anciients, with Witch Mountain, Tobeatic, Galgamex, Astrakhan, Hopeleus

Shine Nightclub Techno and House, with DJs Kevin Shiu, Ali Sani, Siavash,
Marcello

Woodys Pop Junkies, DJ Mike

SATURDAY

Backstage Lounge Shah DJs Bar None House and electro with DJs Zak Santiago and
SKLA

Biltmore Cabaret Why? (early), Glory Days (late)

Bimini Public House Dance, chart, remixes with DJ Matty C

Charles Bar Off the Radar with rotating DJs: Club hits, Top 40, house, old
school

Cinema Public House Cinema Saturdays: Chart, dance, remixes with DJ Grizzandole

Clough Club House DJs play hip hop

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club David Hazeltine

Electric Owl Blkout with Nadastrom, Dr. Seiz, JP Vadle$

Fairview Pub Big City Soul (early), Still Spirits, Dire Wolves, Jack Singh Trio,
Jesse Lebourdais (late)

Fortune Sound Club Marlon J English, Jay Swing, Rob Rizk, Tone

Funky Winkerbeans Anchoress, Joyce Collingwood, Bomb Annabelle, Aviator Shades
Ginger 62 Di2trict Saturdays with DJs Dre Morel, Pure Addiction, Nima, Farshad

Granville Room Dance, chart & classics with DJ No Luv

Hooker's Green Soul, funk & dance with DJ Kenya

Killjoy Barbers House with DJ Dre Morel

Lamplighter Public House Rock 'n' roll, pop & dance with DJs Antonia and Ana

Library Square Public House The Affair Dance Party with Ernold Sane & P. Deady

Media Club Razorian CD release party, Rogues Riot, China Syndrome

Pivo Rotating guest DJs play lounge, Top 40

Red Room Ultrabar Atmos

Railway Club Saturday Roots Jam with the Enablers (early), Cornshed, Whiskey
Chief, Hussein Elnamer (late)

Rickshaw NoMeansNo, with the Invasives, Ford Pier, Strength of Materials

Shine Nightclub Hip hop, '90s, trap and rap with DJs Icytouch, Lokoboy

Venue Yemen Blues

Woodys Pop Junkies, DJ Mike

SUNDAY

Backstage Lounge Touch & Feel Africa: Love the Beat, supporting local artists
and education in Africa

Biltmore Cabaret Kitty Nights Burlesque

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club Victor Noriega & Gust Burns: Two Trios record
release

Electric Owl Psychic Ills, with Follakzoid

Funky Winkerbeans The Evil Bastard Scaryoke Experience

Granville Room Bump & Hustle Sundays: Old school hip hop with DJ Ecos

Railway Club Old Style Pro Jam (early), Craig Cardiff (late)

Red Room Ultrabar Descent Sundays: Goth EMB, industrial, metal Rickshaw Swingin'
Utters, with Wild Roses

MONDAY

Bimini Public House Pub Trivia Mondays Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club Blue Mondays
with Ken Emerson

Electric Owl Cheap Thrills Karaoke

Fortune Sound Club Darwin Deez, with Caged Animals

Funky Winkerbeans The Evil Bastard Scaryoke Experience

Railway Club Craig Cardiff (early), Hard Rock Miners Sing-Along (late)

TUESDAY

Backstage Lounge Live Band Karaoke

Bimini Public House Beer & Games Night

Clough Club Tiki Tuesdays: Tiki creations with Donnie 'Bahama' Wheeler

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club The Dawn of Virtuosity: Recreating the First
Trumpet and Keyboard Recital

Fortune Sound Club 2 Live Crew, with the World Famous XXX Dancers, My! Gay!
Husband!, Cherchez, Too High Crew, the Phonograff, Blondtron

Funky Winkerbeans Evil Bastard Scaryoke Experience Hooker's Green Live standup
comedy

Lamplighter Public House Pub Trivia Tuesdays

Railway Club Speed Control, Quit the City

Rickshaw Voices of the Dark Tour with Marduk, Moonspell and Inquisition, with
the Foreshadowing, Death Wolf

WEDNESDAY

Backstage Lounge Arsenic of Jabir, the Klum

Biltmore Cabaret Paul Anthony's Talent Time (early), Shout Out Out Out Out
(late)

Bozzini's Ross Neilsen

The Butcher & Bullock Pub Trivia

Cafe Deux Soleil Buckman Coe

The Calling Public House Pub Trivia

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club A/B Trio

Electric Owl Elizabeth Fine, Times, Colin Cowan

Fairview Pub Open Mic Acoustic with Patrick Jacobson

Fortune Sound Club Theo & the Get Down Stay Down, with Sallie Ford

Funky Winkerbeans The Evil Bastard Karaoke Experience

Granville Room Bourbon & Beats with the Chaperones

Lamplighter Public House Bourbon & Bingo Wednesdays

Railway Club Supper Show (early), Ingrid Gatin 1000 Lives album release, with
Zaac Pick and Twin Voices (late)

LITERARY

A Search for Love, Family and Forgiveness

Author May Q. Wong will read from A Cowherd in Paradise: From China to Canada,
the true story of married couple forced to live apart for 25 years because of
Canada's exclusionary immigration laws. . Richmond Public Library, Brighouse
Branch, 7700 Minoru Gate . March 1, 2-3 p.m. . yourlibrary.ca

Book Lovers' Reading Circle

Read any good books lately? If so, share your thoughts with other enthusiastic
readers. Bring one or two books and tell the group why you enjoyed them. .
Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch . March 2 and April 13, 10: 30 a.m.-12:
30 p.m. . Free, 604-331-3691, vpl.ca

Tamara Veitch and Rene DeFazio

Seminar, discussion and book signing with Tamara Veitch and Rene DeFazio,
authors of One Great Year. Topics include ancient wisdom, synchronicity and
reincarnation. . Utopia, 1826 Lonsdale Ave., North Van . March 2, 7 p.m. .
onegreatyear.com

Free Creative Writing Class/Present Perfect: Writing from the Now

Author Marni Norwich offers a free creative writing class, inviting participants
to connect with their stories, write and read from their work in a supportive
environment. . The Prophouse, 1636 Venables St. . March 3, 2: 30 p.m. . Free,
604-2151202, inkcatmedia.com/lateralmusings/

Poetic Justice

Open mic session plus featured poets Taryn Hubbard, Renee Sarojini Saklikar and
Kevin Spenst, with host Alan Hill. . Heritage Grill, 447 Columbia St., New West
. March 3, 3-5 p.m. . poeticjustice.ca

Self-Publishing Fair

Day of presentations and panel discussions for anyone looking for information
about the ever-changing world of self-publishing. . Vancouver Public Library,
Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 3, 10 a.m.-4: 30 p.m. . Free,
604-331-4044, vpl.ca

Getting Started in Children's Books

Join six professional children's authors and illustrators to find out how they
broke into this exciting and competitive field and how they built their careers.
. Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 4, 7 p.m.
. Free, 604-331-4044, vpl.ca

Vancouver Noir: Murder, Corruption and Crime in the Terminal City

Join authors Diane Purvey and John Belshaw as they discuss Vancouver's gritty
underbelly in the 1930s to 1960s and their book Vancouver Noir: 1930-1960 .
Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 5, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604-331-3716, vpl.ca

Robson Reading Series: Al Hunter Poetry reading by Al Hunter from his book
Beautiful Razor. . First Nations Longhouse, UBC, 1985 West Mall . March 6, 6: 30
p.m. . Free, 604-822-6453, robsonreadingseries.ubc.ca

Eileen Cook

Author Eileen Cook reads from her latest release, The Almost Truth, a smart,
romantic novel about a teenage con artist who might be in over her head. .
Vancouver Public Library, Britannia Branch, 1661 Napier St. . March 7, 10 a.m. .
Free, 604-331-4044, vpl.ca

Poets and The Social Self: Vancouver

Join Wayde Compton, Joanne Arnott and Michael Turner with Renee Sarojini
Saklikar. . Goldcorp Centre, 149 W. Hastings St. . March 7, 7-9 p.m. . Free,
sfuwoodwards.ca

Page Turners

Offers adults with differing abilities a weekly opportunity to read and learn
together and talk about books in a relaxed community setting. . Lad-ner Pioneer
Library, 4683 51st St., Delta . Tuesdays, 1-2 p.m. . 604-943-2271, fvrl.bc.ca

George Mackie Library Book Club

Discuss books in a casual setting. New members are welcome and books are
provided. . 8440 112th St., Delta . Every second Tuesday of the month, 7: 15-8:
30 p.m. . Free, fvrl.bc.ca

Irish Poetry Nights

Proprietor Jack Sixsmith leads this poetry evening dedicated to Irish poet
Patrick Kavanagh . Third Wednesday of each month . Slainte By The Pier
Gastrobar, Marine Drive, White Rock . 7: 30 p.m. . 604-542-3667

New West Library: Book Club Café

New drop-in book club. . New Westminster Public Library, 716 6th Ave. . The
fourth Saturday of the month, 11 a.m.-12: 30 p.m. . 604-527-4667

Word Whips Writing Series

Writing prompts provided, plus the opportunity for sharing. 10-15 minutes to
write each prompt . Vancouver Public Library, Britannia Branch . Fourth Tuesday
of every month, 6: 308: 30 p.m. . vpl.ca

Inhabiting Women's Space: Perspectives from Poetry, Memoir, Biography and
History

Four women writers explore how women inhabit space, metaphorically through
Marilyn Bowering's poems and Sandra Djwa's biography of poet PK Page, and
literally through Kathy Mezei's look at women's domestic history and Kate
Braid's memoir of being a carpenter. . Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch,
350 W. Georgia St. . March 8, 7 p.m. . Free, 604-331-4044, vpl.ca

An Evening of Memorable Murder Mysteries

Presentation by local author Cathy Ace as part of the launch of her newest
novel, The Corpse with the Golden Nose. . The ACT, 11944 Haney Plc., Maple Ridge
. March 9, 6: 15 p.m. . Free, 604-476-2787, theactmapleridge.org

The Inspiration of E. Pauline

Mohawk poet Janet Rogers combines historical research, multimedia and
performance poetry to honour the life and work of Canadian icon, E. Pauline
Johnson. . Rhizome Cafe, 317 E. Broadway . March 9, 7-9 p.m. . Free,
604-873-1866, herstorycafe.ca

Poetic Justice

Open mic session, plus featured poets Frances Cabahug, Trevor Carolan and Paul
Falardeau with host, Franci Louann . Heritage Grill, 447 Columbia St., New West
. March 10, 3-5 p.m. . poeticjustice.ca

Poetry in the Park for Pauline

Poetry offerings and a poetic performance by Mohawk poet Janet Rogers to honour
the life, work and birth date of Canadian poet E. Pauline Johnson/Tekahionwake
(1861-1913). . Ferguson Pt., Stanley Park . March 10, 1 p.m. . Free,
604-873-1866, herstorycafe.ca

VISUAL ARTS

Amelia Douglas Gallery

Earth Formed Works by Judy Weeden and Ronald T. Crawford . Opening reception
Feb. 28, 4: 30-7: 30 p.m. Runs until April 12 . Douglas College, 700 Royal Ave.,
New West . 604-527-5723, douglas.bc.ca

Arms and Armour Museum

Vancouver's first interactive museum of European arms and armour. . 412 W.
Hastings . academieduello.com

Art Beatus

Melt: Winter Group Exhibition. Works by Janice Wong, June Yun, Li Zhong Xiang,
Shyh-Charng Lo and Yuichi Takasaka . 108-808 Nelson St. . Runs until March 15 .
604-688-2633, artbeatus.com

Art Gallery at Evergreen

Emerging Talent 16: Works by local Grade 12 students . 1205 Pinetree Way,
Coquitlam . Runs until March 9 . 604-927-6557, evergreenculturalcentre.ca

ArtStarts Gallery

Sense of Place: Showcases artwork made by young people from schools across B.C.
in collaboration with artists, exploring themes of place and identity. . 808
Richards St. . Runs until March 15 . 604-336-0626, artstarts.com

Audain Gallery

Things Don't Speak Themselves: SFU Visual Art 3rd Year Student Show, March 6-16
. 149 W. Hastings St. . audaingallery.ca

B.C. Farm Machinery and Agricultural Museum

The most unique collection of its kind in Western Canada. . 9131 King St., Fort
Langley . bcfma.com

B.C. Sports Hall of Fame

Exhibits, galleries and interactive displays tell the stories of sport in B.C.
from the early 1800s to the current day. . B.C. Place, Gate A . 604687-5520,
bcsportshalloffame.com

Bau-Xi Gallery

Tom Burrows: The China Effect . Opening reception March 2, 2-4 p.m. Runs until
March 16 . 3045 Granville St. . 604-733-7011, bau-xi.com

Beaty Biodiversity Museum

Natural history museum, including Canada's largest blue whale skeleton . 2212
Main Mall, UBC Campus . 604-822-5082, beatymuseum.ubc.ca

Beaumont Studios

T.A.B. the Wine Bo Providing 30 artists with wooden wineboxes, artist Arne
Gutmann let their imaginations run wild providing them with only one guideline,
'explore YOUR issue' . 316 W. 5th Ave. . Runs until March 14 . 604733-3783,
thebeaumontstudios.com

Bill Reid Gallery of Northwest Coast Art

Carrying on 'Irregardless: ' Humour in Contemporary Northwest Coast Art.
Features more than 60 works by 28 Northwest Coast artists, runs until March 17 .
639 Hornby St. . 604-682-3455, billreidgallery.ca

Bloedel Conservatory

Celebration of Nature - Flora and Fauna: A group exhibit by the Sculptors'
Society of British Columbia featuring more than 45 individual works . Queen
Elizabeth Park . Runs until March 17 . greatervancouverparks.com/
BloedelCons.html

Britannia Mine Museum

Preserves the material and social history of mining in B.C. . Britannia Beach .
604-896-2233, bcmm.ca

Burnaby Art Gallery

The Artist Poster Show: Explores the didactic evolution of artist exhibition
posters. . 6344 Deer lake Ave., Burnaby . Runs until April 7 .
burnabyartgallery.ca

Canadian Museum of Flight

Bringing B.C.'s aviation past into the future. . Langley Regional Airport,
Hangar #3-5333 216th St. . 604-532-0035, canadianflight.org

Circle Craft Gallery

Group ceramics exhibition in celebration of the gallery's 40th anniversary .
Opens March 1 . 1-1666 Johnston St., Granville Island . Runs until April 9 .
604-669-8021, circlecraft.net

CityScape Community Art Space

Exquisite Landscape: West Coast scenery by artists Sarah Hill David, Elspeth
Hart, Sandrine Pelissier, Mary Shaughnessy and Camille Sleeman . 335 Lonsdale,
North Van . Runs until March 9 . nvartscouncil.ca

Contemporary Art Gallery

Recycled Playground: Romanian artist Ciprian Muresan / As It Comes: Raymond
Boisjoly . 555 Nelson St. . Runs until April 7 . 604-6812700,
contemporaryartgallery.ca

Deer Lake Gallery

Dreaming of the Present: Solo show featuring work by local artist Ron Sangha. .
6584 Deer Lake Ave., Burnaby . Runs until March 2 . 604298-7322,
burnabyartscouncil.org

District Foyer Gallery

Ellen Bang and Stephen Dittberner. . District Hall of North Van, 355 W. Queens
Rd., North Van . Runs until March 19 . 604-988-6844

Douglas Udell Gallery Erik Olson: Architecture of the Face . 1566 W. 6th Ave. .
Runs until March 9 . 604-736-8900, douglasudellgallery.com

Dundarave Print Workshop + Gallery

The Red Show: Original works featuring crimson, cherry, blush, flame and fire
engine reds . 1640 Johnston St., Granville Island . Runs until March 3 .
604-689-1650, dundaraveprintworkshop.com

Elissa Cristall Gallery Camrose Ducote: New Work. . Opening reception March 2,
2-4 p.m. . 2239 Granville St. . Runs until March 30 . 604-730-9611,
cristallgallery.com

Ferry Building Gallery

A Visual Language, featuring Jin Hong: Linen and Silk and Eric Goldstein:
Coloured threads, acrylic paint and plaster on canvas . Opening reception March
5, 6-8 p.m . 1414 Argyle Ave., West Van . Runs until March 24 . 604-925-7266,
ferrybuildinggallery.com

Granville Fine Art

Red: A Group Show. Partial proceeds from all sales benefit the Callanish
Society. . 2447 Granville St. . Runs until March 8 . 604-2666010,
granvillefineart.com

grunt gallery

Gutter Snipes I: Cal Lane. An aluminum coated steel sewer pipe that is carved
away into an ornate collage of designs . 116-350 E. 2nd Ave. . Runs until March
23 . 604-875-9516, grunt.ca

Gulf of Georgia Cannery National Historic Site

Seafood for Thought: Multimedia exhibit explores issues regarding sustainable
fishing . 12138 4th Ave., Richmond . Runs until March 31 . 604-664-9009,
gulfofgeorgiacannery.com

Havana Gallery

Cristina Peori: Denizons and Environs, Objects and Intangibles. Features oils,
acrylics, collage, multimedia and mosaics. . Opens Feb. 28, reception March 3,
4-7 p.m. . 1212 Commercial Dr. . Runs until March 13 . 604-253-9119,
havanarestaurant.ca

Historic Stewart Farm

Tour the restored 2894 farmhouse and heritage gardens and imagine pioneer life
at the turn of the 19th century. . 13723 Crescent Rd., Surrey . 604-592-6956,
surrey.ca/heritage

Inuit Gallery

A Colourful Vision: Kenojuak Ashevak, solo exhibit . 206 Cambie St. . Runs until
March 14 . 604-688-7323, inuit.com Jacobsen Gallery Space Film Never Stopped
Loving You: A tiny gallery exhibition of film photography by local Mount
Pleasant photographers. . March 9, 7 p.m.-12 a.m. . 256 E. 2nd Ave. .
778-229-0942 Jennifer Kostuik Gallery

Ouest: New Paintings by Stephen Hutchings . 1070 Homer St. . Runs until March 31
. 604-737-3969, kostuikgallery.com

Kariton Art Gallery

Dual Visions: Works in photo art by Phil Dyer and paintings in acrylic by Nasser
Ghaderi . 2387 Ware St., Abbotsford . Runs until March 5 . 604-852-9358,
abbotsfordartscouncil.org

Langley Centennial Museum

Voices of the Town: Vaudeville in Canada. Explores the remarkable story of
Vaudeville through the lens of the Roy Studio. . 9135 King St. . Runs until
March 13 . 604-532-3536, langleymuseum.org

Leigh Square

PoCo: Personal and Inspirational . 2253 Leigh Square, Port Coquitlam . Runs
until March 25 . 604927-8440, portcoquitlam.ca/leighsquare

Maple Ridge Art Gallery

Portable Walls: Mixed media installation by Christian Nicolay and Ya-chu Kang .
11944 Haney Plc. . Runs until March 9 . 604-476-2787, theactmapleridge.org

Monte Clark Gallery

Solo show of new works by British artist Paul Housley. . 105-525 Great Northern
Way . Runs until March 30 . 604-730-5000, monteclarkgallery.com

Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery

Esther Shalev-Gerz: Brings together key works by the Paris-based artist in the
first solo exhibition of her work to be organized in Canada. . 1825 Main Mall,
UBC . Runs until April 14 . 604-822-2759, belkin.ubc.ca

Museum of Anthropology

Pleased to Meet You: Potter Gwyn Hanssen Pigott re-assembles objects from the
collection with her own works . TwoRow II by Alan Michelson: Mohawk artist Alan
Michelson's immersive, four-channel video installation, TwoRow II (2005) . 6393
NW Marine Dr., UBC . Runs until March 24 . 604-8275932, moa.ubc.ca

Museum of Vancouver

Joe Average: Photographic Exhibition, until June 9 . Sex Talk in the City: An
exhibition dedicated to Vancouver's sexual history . 1100 Chestnut St. .
museumofvancouver.ca

Network Hub Gallery

Breaking Ground: Works by Carole Millar, Cliff Milne, Donna Ross and Wendy
Schmidt. . River Market, 810 Quayside Dr., New West . Runs until March 21 .
thenetworkhub.ca/artgallery

Nikkei National Museum

Ryoshi - Nikkei Fishermen of the B.C. Coast: Exhibit on the history and
significance of Japanese Canadians in the B.C. fishing industry . 6688
South-oaks Cres., Burnaby . Runs until May 19 . 604-777-7000, nikkeiplace.org

Or Gallery

After Finitude: Neil Campbell, Hanne Darboven, Nicole Ondre, Cheyney Thompson .
555 Hamilton St. . Runs until April 6 . 604-683-7395, orrgallery.org

Pendulum Gallery

City: Life. Drawings and paintings by Mark Illing, Jon Shaw and Sean Karemaker
look at various aspects of the contemporary city. . 885 W. Georgia St. . Runs
until March 8 . 604-250-9682, pendulumgallery.bc.ca

Presentation House Gallery

Current exhibits - Anna Oppermann: Filiations / Marianne We Let's Take Back Our
Space / Andrea Pinheiro: Bomb Book . 333 Chesterfield Ave., North Van . Runs
until March 24 . 604-986-1351, presentationhousegallery.org

Queens Park Art Gallery

Seasoned Fibres: Donna Polosan - watercolours on paper, canvas and cotton . New
West . March 5-30 . 604-525-3244, artscouncilnewwest.org

Reach Gallery Museum

Three new winter exhibitions: Cascadia: Group Exhibit / Nests and Trees: Vicky
Marshall and Pat Service / Unintended Consequences - The Extinct Bird Series:
Rosa Quintana Lillo . 32388 Veterans Way, Abbotsford . Runs until March 31 .
604-864-8087, thereach.ca

Republic Gallery light tender: Solo exhibit by Antonia Hirsch . 732 Richards
St., 3rd floor . Runs until March 2 . 604-632-1590, republicgallery.com

Richmond Art Gallery

Andante (a walking pace): Works by a collaborative entity of Vancouver-based
artists. . 7700 Minoru Gate . Runs until March 24 . 604-247-8300,
richmondartgallery.org

Richmond Museum

Highway to Heaven: Richmond's Multi-faith Community. . 7700 Minoru Gate . Runs
until July 1 . 604-247-8334

Satellite Gallery

NEWS! Photographs from the 1880s to the 1990s from the archives of the Vancouver
Sun and Province newspapers. . 560 Seymour Street, 2nd Floor . Runs until March
30 . 604-681-8425, satellitegallery.ca

Seymour Art Gallery

Chameleon: A Polymer Clay Exhibition, until March 2 . Les Manning:
Common/Opposites - works by internationally renowned ceramist, March 5-April 6 .
4360 Gallant Ave., North Van . 604-924-1378, seymourartgallery.com

Sidney and Gertrude Zack Gallery

Elements of Influence A Visual Response to the Natural World: Paintings by
Carolyn Kramer, lights by Melanie Thompson, until March 3 . Glimpses of Africa:
Photography by Claudine Pommier, March 7-April 7 . 950 W. 41st Ave.

Silk Purse Gallery

Looking from the Outside: Works by painter/print maker Greg Allen . 1570 Argyle
Ave., West Van . Runs until March 10 . 604-925-7292, silkpurse.ca

Smash Gallery Of Modern Art

Kellie Talbot: American Landscape . 580 Clark Dr. . Runs until March 2 .
604-353-4064, smashmodernart.com

Stewart Stephenson Modern Art Gallery

Vancouver's newest gallery, featuring works by Stewart Stephenson and signature
artists . Sonja Picard: Omnipotent Women of Power, solo exhibit. March 8-31 .
1300 Robson St. . stewartstephenson.com Surrey Art Gallery Three art shows probe
the limits of contemporary Canadian ceramic art: The future is already here /
Ornamentalism / Beyond the Vessel's Edge . 13750 88th Ave. . Runs until March 24
. 604-501-5566

Surrey Museum

Artifacts, images and displays highlighting Surrey's history. . Cur-rent
exhibit: The Vikings: Master Mariners, Traders, Colonists and Artisans, until
April 13 . 17710 56A Ave. . 604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

Vancouver Art Gallery

Hope at Dawn: Watercolours by Emily Carr and Charles John Collings, until May 26
. Art Spiegelman CO-MIX: A Retrospective of Comics, Graphics, and Scraps, until
June 9 . Patrick Faigenbaum, March 9-June 2 . 750 Hornby St. .
vancouverartgallery.ca

Vancouver Maritime Museum

Tattoos & Scrimshaw: The Art of The Sailor, March 14-Oct. 13 . Going to Sea:
Maritime Art & Material Culture, until March 24 . 1905 Ogden Ave . 604-2578300,
vanmaritime.com

West Vancouver Museum

Pierre Coupey: Cutting Out the Tongue March 6-April 27 . 680 17th St., West Van
. 604-925-7295, westvancouvermuseum.ca

Winsor Gallery

Press: Brian Howell's photographic series . Parataxis: New series of paintings
by Charles Rea . 258 E. 1st Ave. . Feb. 28-April 6 . 604-681-4870,
winsorgallery.com

get in the-list: Email Julia or go online!

Email your event information to Julia Piper, jpiper@sunprovince.com, by 5 p.m.
each Thursday to get in the following Thursday's section.

Submit your event information online at theprovince.com/events Follow Julia at
twitter.com/Julia_Piper

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

China's wilder west;
FOCUS

BYLINE: John Garnaut is China correspondent.

SECTION: NEWS; Features; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1999 words


Recent bloody riots in Tibet and Xinjiang suggest that hardline policies aren't
working, yet China continues to rule these volatile regions with an iron first,
writes John Garnaut. THIRTY years have passed since the reformist Communist
Party general secretary Hu Yaobang - probably the most important mentor of
current party boss Hu Jintao - climbed to the roof of the Dalai Lama's Potala
Palace, looked out at the lavish government buildings in the poverty-stricken
capital of Lhasa and resolved to turn his government's hardline policies upside
down. He lambasted local cadres for perpetuating ethnic Han chauvinism and the
"ultra-leftist" policies of the Cultural Revolution, such as demonising the
Dalai Lama. He also sacked the local party boss, ordered that tens of thousands
of Han Chinese cadres be replaced by Tibetans and issued what Tibet scholar
Robbie Barnett describes as "perhaps the closest thing in Chinese Communist
Party history to a real apology". "We feel that our party has let the Tibetan
people down. We feel very bad!"

Hu Yaobang told Tibetan cadres on behalf of the party's central leadership. "The
sole purpose of our communist party is to work for the happiness of people, to
do good things for them. We have worked nearly 30 years, but the life of the
Tibetan people has not been notably improved. Are we not to blame?" One of the
mysteries of modern Chinese politics is what goes through the mind of President
Hu Jintao when he honours Hu Yaobang's family shrine each Chinese New Year. In
the three decades since Hu Yaobang's extraordinary mea culpa, and 21 years since
his death, Tibetan economic living standards have improved significantly but the
political situation remains at crisis point. Three weeks ago, the head of the
party's United Front Department told Tibet cadres to appoint only "politically
reliable" monks and demanded that clerics play a leading role in
"anti-separatist struggles". About the same time, Tibetan sources revealed that
authorities had secretly sentenced Tibet's wealthiest businessman to life
imprisonment - which may have something to do with a large donation to the Dalai
Lama. This week the official Xinhua news agency belatedly admitted that security
forces had killed a Tibetan protester with a "stray bullet" on the Tibetan
plateau in western Sichuan province, while Tibetan sources put the death toll at
three or four. Today, visitors to the Potala Palace look out over a Han
Chinese-dominated business district, and a lavish joint headquarters for the
Communist Party and "autonomous" government. Immediately beyond is a
one-kilometre-long People's Liberation Army headquarters, various police and
military barracks, and the occasional convoy of trucks packed with heavily armed
troops. The narrow cobblestone streets of the old Tibetan quarters are crawling
with armed police and police informants. Tibetans are mostly too scared to talk
openly with foreigners, but in dark corners after dusk many speak of their
furious anger towards "the Chinese", as well as a near-obsessive faith in the
Dalai Lama, a religious leader now so politically potent that even possessing
his photograph is regarded by the authorities as evidence of subversion. Armed
police patrols are as much a source of comfort and reassurance to many Han
Chinese as they are a cause of anxiety and anger for Tibetans. In March 2008,
rioting Tibetans filled these streets with so much fire and blood that many Han
witnesses still have great difficulty speaking about it. "Terrible . . . just
terrible," says Zhang Yan, a migrant entrepreneur whose son and husband remain
behind in Hunan province. Immediately after the riots, Zhang shifted her small
cosmetics business from Lhasa to the more peaceful town of Shigatse. "We give
them so many conditions, and yet . . .," she says, her eyes filling with tears
as she struggles to finish her sentence. More than two years after at least 19
people were killed in the riots, parts of Lhasa still feel like a war zone. But
the situation to the north in the sprawling Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region is
even more serious. According to the official figures, about 200 people were
butchered in riots in July last year, mainly Han Chinese but also Uighurs, the
local Muslim ethnic group, gunned down by security forces. Days after those
riots a Han construction worker told us of watching Uighurs slaughtering Han -
"slicing their throats like lambs" - in Shanxi Lane in the heart of the Uighur
district in Urumqi City, before armed police opened fire, killing the Uighurs.
"The Chinese have taken everything away and left us with nothing," explains a
young Uighur who took part in the outbreak of violence. "So we throw rocks and
whatever we have in our hands, and they have guns." And yet these two waves of
race riots - China's worst violence since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacres -
were not accepted as evidence that China's hardline policies in Tibet and
Xinjiang had reached their use-by date, but that they should be tightened. Even
now the stock response of Chinese leaders and official scholars is to claim that
things are going just fine. "The local, ordinary people love the country, they
love the Communist Party of China," says Tibet's otherwise urbane and
sophisticated deputy party chief, Hao Peng. Analysts inside the system are more
realistic. "The situation in Tibet has not improved but everyone forgets about
it because Xinjiang is worse," says a Chinese security official, whose
specialises in counter-terrorism in Xinjiang. The security official agrees
western China is stuck in an escalating cycle of repression and dissent. "When a
policeman sees several Uighurs together, both sides get nervous, and when people
get nervous incidents can happen," he says, adding that this fear explains why
the government is beginning a campaign against organised religion among Muslim
Uighurs. Publicly, the bloody race riots are blamed on the exiled Tibetan and
Uighur leaders, the Dalai Lama and exiled Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer, and
biased Western media, or simply the ungrateful character of Tibetans and
Uighurs. "When people in heartland China have less income they accept that it's
because they have less ability," says Zhao Mingwen, a former senior diplomat,
now head of Borderland Studies at a Foreign Ministry think tank in Beijing. "But
in Xinjiang or Tibet, they say, 'It's because the Chinese government stopped us
from getting it'." Hu Yaobang is still remembered fondly and even as a hero by
Tibetans - "I admire Hu Yaobang's courage," said the Dalai Lama in 2005 - but
few Tibetans or Uighurs pause to thank President Hu Jintao for anything. A
report by the International Campaign For Tibet, Tibet at a Turning Point, blamed
Hu Jintao for brutal massacres and political repression when he was party boss
of Tibet in 1989. It also blamed him for the "hardline policies against Tibetan
culture and religion" that were formalised by party central in 1994. But Hu
Jintao is the most opaque of Chinese political leaders and the truth may be more
complicated. Tibet and Xinjiang are run so much more tightly than the rest of
China that local scholars have to balance research with propaganda
responsibilities, while only a few well-behaved foreign scholars are granted
access. In a hushed voice, a Tibetan scholar told me that Hu Jintao had faced
"sabotage" while in Tibet and that he was on the "soft" side of internal debate.
Robbie Barnett, of Columbia University, for whom access is not a priority, says
"the unravelling of Hu Yaobang's ideas" over the past two decades is
"fascinating because it seems so unnecessary, so inimical to China's interests,
and because it's what almost certainly triggered the recent protests". "Why has
China persisted with this lose-lose policy?" he asks. "Perhaps it's because the
only people who do not lose from it are the hardline bureaucrats who run it."
Three key hardliners who have been running policy in western China in recent
years all started out together around the oilfields of the Yellow River delta in
Shandong. They are Wang Lequan, who ran Xinjiang for 16 years, his former deputy
Zhang Qingli, who is now party boss of Tibet, and Zhou Yongkang, China's
formidable security boss, who sits on the elite nine-member Politburo Standing
Committee and controls China's police, intelligence and justice systems. They
all cut their teeth around Petrochina's Shandong oilfields and it seems no
coincidence that Petrochina and Shandong businessman now dominate enterprise
there. In 2002, the trio was reunited when Zhang was appointed Wang Lequan's
deputy in Xinjiang. In 2005, Zhang was promoted to be the party boss of Tibet.
In 2008, he became known for describing the Dalai Lama as "a wolf in monk's
clothes, a devil with a human face". Crony business practices, and mineral
wealth being siphoned off to eastern China, are a cause of acute discontent, not
only for Uighurs and Tibetans but for other Chinese who are outside the
privileged network. Optimists can point to the fact that Wang was moved from
Xinjiang back to Beijing in April - and that he was replaced by one of the
Communist Party's more sophisticated leaders, Zhang Chunxian. One of Zhang's
first acts was to turn the internet and SMS phone message system back on, after
the region had been electronically cut off from the rest of China and the world
because of last year's riots. ILHAM Tohti, China's most prominent Uighur
scholar, who teaches at the Minorities University in Beijing, told me at the
time that he had "high expectations"of the new Xinjiang leader but was sceptical
that this would lead to broad ranging change. "No matter how an official dances,
he will dance with the red flag on his feet," he said in May. The Chinese
security source says Xinjiang has a habit of changing leaders who arrive with
benevolent intentions. "Wang Lequan was also relaxed and easy going when he
first arrived and became progressively hardline," says the source. "My guess is
that the same is already happening to Zhang Chunxiang, since the Aksu attack,"
he says, referring to a Uighur terrorist attack that killed seven people in
Xinjiang last month. The Chinese government is moving to address some of the
economic inequalities experienced by Tibetans and Uighurs. Hao Peng, Tibet's
deputy party boss, revealed a range of new affirmative hiring, education and
funding policies designed to close the gap between ethnic Tibetans and the
wealthier migrants from China's eastern provinces. But there is no sign of any
softening of the hardline stance on ethnic "separatism", a position that enjoys
strong support among Han Chinese. There are, however, dissenting voices that
express concern about this approach. Two years ago I interviewed Wang Lixiong, a
Beijing author who is married to a Tibetan and who has travelled extensively
through Tibet and Xinjiang. He was dismayed at China's lack of awareness of its
new "imperialism" and how the party's propaganda system was promoting a new
racial nationalism by blocking all public discussion of the underlying causes of
Tibetan discontent. Now, following the Xinjiang riots and seemingly
ever-tightening political repression in Tibet and Xinjiang, Wang's fears have
only hardened. He believes ethnic Han Chinese chauvinism and repressive
political policies in western China are inextricably tied to the Communist
Party's refusal to countenance political reform in China generally. Wang says
tapping into racial nationalism adds popular support to a party that lacks
democratic legitimacy, while exaggerating the risks of "separatism" provides a
rationale for stonewalling democratic reform. This week, 30 years after his
mentor Hu Yaobang tried to reform governance in Tibet, President Hu Jintao gave
a speech in Shenzhen to mark three decades of economic reform but passed up the
opportunity to talk of political reform. "My views have only strengthened," says
Wang. "There is a risk that this will eventually develop into fascism."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREE PHOTOS: Uighur women demonstrate against riot policemen (main and
above right) during riots in Urumqi in 2009. Above: Hu Yaobang in a white jacket
with Hu Jintao on his immediate left. PICTURES: AFP, REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Bus fares spark riots in China;
Unrest rises as boom fuels divide

BYLINE: Mary-Anne Toy, Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 462 words


IN A stark reminder of the social unrest bubbling beneath China's economic boom,
the People's Liberation Army has been sent to a village in central Hunan
province to quell mass riots involving up to 2000 people over five days.

The incident, one of tens of thousands every year, came in the midst of the
annual National People's Congress, China's yearly parliamentary session, where a
key theme has been building a "harmonious and peaceful society".

The riots began last Friday in a village on the outskirts of Zhushan, a town of
60,000 in Hunan, as a peaceful protest against a steep increase in local bus
fares. It turned into a series of battles with police and later paramilitary
reinforcements in which at least seven police cars and nine buses were attacked
and burned and dozens injured, according to witnesses.

Locals said the protest turned heated on Monday after the privately owned bus
company threatened to bring in hired thugs and local police backed the bus
company.

Villagers, who earn an average of 500 yuan (about $A80) a year, were incensed
that the privately owned company had increased fares 80 per cent last month,
from five nine yuan.

China's economic boom, which has averaged 8-10 per cent growth a year for the
past few decades, has made it the world's fourth-biggest economy. However, a
widening gap between the mainly urban rich and largely rural poor, and
discontent over illegal land grabs together with other corruption and
environmental issues, has seen a big increase in riots.

Official state media yesterday reported the "mass incident" in Zhushan had been
calmed and denied earlier reports that a protester had died in the clashes.

A doctor at Zhushan central hospital, who declined to give her name, said
yesterday the streets were unusually empty and armed police and troops were
stationed at government institutions including schools and her hospital, where a
squad of soldiers had been stationed.

"I heard that there were around 2000 people on the first day of the riot," she
said.

"At the beginning people were throwing stones at the police and the police
station, and later the Government dispatched anti-riot troops to fight back and
that's when people got injured."

She said no one had heard of anyone dying from the riots.

While many foreign pundits described the Zhushan riot as deeply embarrassing for
China's leaders - Hunan's governor Zhou Qiang, China's youngest provincial
leader at 46, is a protege of President Hu Jintao - the incident will also
reinforce attempts by Mr Hu to slightly rein in economic growth in favour of
greener, fairer development, to prevent just such mass unrest from spiralling
out of control.

The Ministry of Public Security reported 87,000 mass incidents in 2005, up 6.6
per cent on 2004 and 50 per cent over 2003.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council cautious on Xinjiang riots

LENGTH: 281 words


Text of report in English by Taiwanese newspaper Taipei Times website on 6 July

["Mainland Affairs Council Cautious on Xinjiang Riots"]

The Mainland Affairs Council (MAC) yesterday responded very cautiously to
questions about the first anniversary of the deadly Xinjiang riots.

Responding to questions about what has come to be known as the July 5 incident,
Mainland Affairs Council spokesman Liu Te-hsun told a routine press conference
that "we all care about what happened [the Xinjiang riots]. Facing a stable
development of cross-strait relations and how to construct such a stable
foundation ... both sides are working hard to address their own domestic
affairs."

AVOIDING ANGER

Asked for comment yesterday, Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) Legislator Tsai
Huang-liang said the council had chosen not to respond to what has been
acknowledged as an international human rights abuse incident to avoid upsetting
Beijing as President Ma Ying-jeou's administration seeks to foster closer
economic ties with China.

"The China-leaning Ma administration did not condemn Beijing for using force
against protesters in Xinjiang a year ago and also never questioned China's
human rights violations in other areas," the legislator said.

UNQUALIFIED

"Precious values such as democracy, freedom and human rights have been
developing well in Taiwan, but Ma never promotes those values to Beijing. He is
not qualified to be the president of a democracy," Tsai said.

Violent street battles took place in Xinjing in July last year, killing at least
140 people and leaving more than 80 injured in the deadliest ethnic unrest to
hit the region in decades.

Source: Taipei Times website, Taipei, in English 6 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                            Asia News Network (ANN)

                             August 1, 2016 Monday

OPINION: Jokowi, you're breaking my heart, again

BYLINE: Ika Krismantari

LENGTH: 869  words


Status: complicated. That is probably the best way to describe my relationship
status with President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo.

The verdict of the International People's Tribunal (IPT), which found Indonesia
guilty of crimes against humanity in relation to the systematic killings of
hundreds of thousands of people in 1965 has not made things any better between
us.

Well, dear president, this article is the culmination of my frustration and also
a reminder of what you have done wrong.

Two years ago, you impressed me with your one-of-a-kind charm and promises.

Breaking into national politics wearing your innocent-guy persona with no
military background or high-wired political connections, you portrayed yourself
as a presidential candidate like no other.

Then, you lulled me with your big promises during your campaign. One was your
intention to resolve past human rights abuses, which previous presidents failed
to accomplish.

Once ruled by an authoritarian government, Indonesia has a long history tainted
by gross human violations involving the military. Just to name a few, they
include the May 1998 riots, the 1989 Talangsari incident and the 1965 communist
purge.

Resolving the 1965 tragedy is deemed important by many, as it is the key to
ending decades-long impunity that has led to a series of subsequent human rights
violations. Some have associated violence against Indonesians of Chinese descent
in the 1998 Jakarta riots with the China-phobia preserved after 1965.

Allowing the 1965 case to go unresolved also means opening up to possibilities
of further violence in the future.

That's why, my dear president, your promise to resolve the 1965 case was warmly
greeted by a nation that has morphed into a democracy. Even though, the pledge
should not have come as a surprise to lure voters, given your non-military
background.

But still I fell into your trap and voted for you in 2014, and I was not the
only one. Another 70 million people also cast their votes for you, making you
our president.

My hope abounded when you included your promises into one of your government's
agendas. Yet, two years on, I have not seen a single sign that you will resolve
past atrocities. I guess you are busy with your other priorities.

Well, despite my disappointment, I tried to understand until the ruling from the
IPT came out. You did not say a word about it. Yet you let your subordinates
make statements that completely contradict your promise.

I hope that their remarks do not represent the government's stance, because deep
inside in me I still want to believe in you, the man who has made impossible
things possible in Indonesian political history; the man that I have chosen to
lead the country.

I believe it is still not too late for you to do something to meet your
promises.

With the nation under the global spotlight following the IPT's decision, it is a
good opportunity for you to seize the moment.

You have now secured support from the international community to take action.
The IPT has planned to bring the case to the upcoming UN Human Rights Council
meeting. The ruling can't be ignored with the world's attention drawn to it.
Thus, in this case, silence is not golden, dear president.

The verdict may not be binding, yet if you care about building a good image like
your predecessors, you may want to consider the IPT's recommendations to
investigate the case and apologise to victims and their families.

On an additional note, this may be good for your future CV if you want to pursue
an international career once your presidency comes to an end.

Apart from building your personal reputation, heeding the IPT's recommendation
will help the country restore its name on the global stage. A young democracy,
Indonesia is eyeing global recognition. Imagine how the government's inaction
over the tragedy will dent our rise on the international stage.

You may have heard that the IPT has also exposed the complicity of the US, the
UK and Australia, which had early knowledge of what the IPT described as a
"genocide".

The involvement of the superpower countries in the tragedy is another golden
opportunity for Indonesia to make a mark in the international arena through an
initiative to resolve gross human rights violations.

Indonesia can start by requesting those governments to open their secret files
in relation to the 1965 bloodshed. The IPT's verdict gives a developing nation
justification to question the authority of superpowers and Indonesia should not
waste this rare chance.

Yet, I also realise it is not easy to resolve the 1965 killings in the face of
opposition from different parties.

The current legal system has also shown that the initiative to resolve the
tragedy constitutes a mission impossible given the absence of political will
from House of Representatives lawmakers and resistance from the military.

But whom do you want to please, dear president? Those politicians and generals?
Or how about the 70 million people who voted for you and have faith in your
promises?

If you are gunning for a second mandate, I think you had better start fulfilling
your pledges -- a promise, after all, is a promise. Don't blow your chance again
and again and make me, or us, finally fall out love with you.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 2075


                       Copyright 2016 Asia News Network.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

'Webpage link leading to provocative content had 60 lakh hits'

BYLINE: Joshua Patnigere

LENGTH: 571  words


State Home Minister R R Patil on Monday said a link leading to a webpage with
provocative content had a serious impact on the protest at Azad Maidan. "There
were 60 lakh hits on a particular link leading to provocative content. But the
videos and images were not of incidents in Assam and Myanmar. They were doctored
and were actually images of the Gujarat riot and China earthquake," said Patil.

Even as Muslim leaders called for peace after Saturday's violence near Azad
Maidan, the Mumbai Police has begun to take serious note of groups that are
continuing to post inflammatory content on social networking sites.

Even as the organisers of the protest meet have apologised for the violence, a
few groups on social networking sites, with several hundred followers each, have
urged members to continue spreading the word about atrocities against Muslims
and to "come out on the streets again in other cities". Senior police officers
confirmed that the Mumbai Police was contemplating action against those posting
inflammatory content on these sites.

Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Himanshu Roy said that the Cyber Crime Cell
is monitoring all posts and pictures of the Azad Maidan protest put up on
Facebook and other sites. "We are also checking and tracing persons who put up
such pictures, both before and after the violence, on Saturday. Action will be
taken against such persons," said Roy.

One group on Facebook, called 'STOP killing Muslims in Burma', had 12,606
members at the last count. With posts asking group members to organise
demonstrations and inform the moderators for publicity, the Azad Maidan protest
too finds mention in the group page. Until Monday evening, there were 320
'likes' and 153 comments about the Azad Maidan protest. One user urged other
group members to organise similar protests in their cities.

The use of social media was key in publicising the Azad Maidan protest with a
special 'public event notification' on Facebook still active. More than 1,500
users had confirmed that they would attend the protest. Posts on the page ranged
from media bashing to condemning alleged police brutality on "peaceful
protestors" at Azad Maidan. One user referred to the two victims who died in the
violence as martyrs.

With posts ranging from "waking up the Indian government" to "doing whatever it
takes to draw attention", the groups have seen a flurry of activity. "As a
general rule, the hate-mongers are more active on the worldwide web," said Javed
Anand, secretary of Muslims for Secular Democracy and trustee of Citizens for
Justice and Peace, which handed over a memorandum to Commissioner of Police Arup
Patnaik calling for, among other things, reviving Mohalla Committees in
sensitive parts of the city. "But the overwhelming majority of young Muslims are
angry at what happened. They're drawing comparisons with peaceful community
movements and are calling what happened at Azad Maidan a disgrace to the
community," Anand added.

Retired assistant commissioner of police Shamsher Khan Pathan said he believes
the community members will hand over the perpetrators of violence once CCTV
footage identifies them. "But the police should not pick up innocent Muslims.
They should be strict against criminals, but there should be no vindictiveness."

Meanwhile, Pakistan-based blogger Faraz Ahmed posted a link showing that some of
these pictures were from other

conflict and disaster-hit Asian countries.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

China Unveils New Map of South China Sea

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 543 words



HIGHLIGHT: A vertical map representing China&#8217;s claims in the South China
Sea shows two disputed clusters of islands entirely within Chinese territory.


First vertical map of China published. Islands in South China Sea better shown
than traditional map http://t.co/4FOtABUITh

- China Xinhua News (@XHNews)24 Jun 14

China is standing tall over its expansive claims to territory in the South China
Sea. This week, Hunan Map Publishing House unveiled a new map of China - a
vertical representation of the country that includes the vast body of water
south of Hainan Island. China's assertions of ownership in the South China Sea
have put it at odds with at least four Southeast Asian nations, which have
competing claims, and with the United States, which has said that China's
actions in the region - including having a state-owned oil company place an
exploratory oil rig near the Vietnamese coast in May - are creating instability.

Chinese claims in the South China Sea have appeared on Chinese maps before, but
mostly in the form of an inset. The new map takes a novel approach. It was
presented on Monday in Changsha, the capital of Hunan Province, by Lei Yixun,
the chief editor of the publishing house.In representing China's claims, the map
has 10 dashes in the shape of a tongue around the South China Sea. This is one
dash more than the map that was drawn up by the Kuomintang government in the
1940s and that is often cited by Chinese officials as a historical basis for the
Communist state's claims. Many people call that earlier map the "nine dashes" or
the "cow's tongue." The new vertical map, with its 10 dashes, can be seen on the
English website of People's Daily, the Communist Party's mouthpiece.

The map clearly shows two large clusters of islands, the Paracels and the
Spratlys, within the dashes. China, Vietnam and Taiwan all claim the Paracels,
while six governments have overlapping claims to the Spratlys.

One thing the map does not show is how China is moving sand onto three or four
reefs and rocks in the Spratlys in an effort to turn them into full-fledged
islands. Foreign officials say China has been doing this since January. The
Philippines has already twice filed formal complaints with China over the island
construction, and Vietnam and the United States have both denounced it.

Those actions could turn out to be even more inflammatory than China's use of
the oil rig, some officials say. The presence of the rig set off anti-China
riots at factories in Vietnam last month. Most of the factories attacked were
owned by companies based in Taiwan. Factories operated by mainland Chinese and
Singaporean companies were also damaged. At least five Chinese citizens were
killed and dozens were injured in the rioting, according to Xinhua, the Chinese
state news agency. The Xinhua report said rioters burned down 20 foreign-owned
factories, and 1,100 foreign companies were affected.

On Wednesday, China Daily, an official English-language newspaper, reported that
Vietnam had paid $7 million in compensation to nearly 140 businesses affected by
the riots.

China has accused Vietnam of "conniving" with the protesters, and the
relationship between the two nations remains tense as ships from both sides move
daily around the oil rig. Vietnamese officials have asserted that China has sent
naval ships to guard the rig, but China has denied that accusation.

Bree Feng contributed research.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Labour riot shuts down China plant tied to Apple

BYLINE: Saibal Dasgupta TNN

SECTION: TIMES GLOBAL

LENGTH: 225 words


Beijing: Foxconn Technology Group,which among other things assembles Apple's
iPhones,closed its plant in northern China after a riot in the company's
dormitory involving 2,000 workers.Ten people were reportedly injured in the riot
but the reason for the clash remains unknown.The company did not disclose how
long the shutdown in the plant in Taiyuan city,which employs 79,000 people,would
last.But the move is bound to impact supplies of several important brands."The
cause of this dispute is under investigation by local authorities and we are
working closely with them in this process,but it appears not to have been
work-related," Foxconn said in a statement.It started as a personal dispute
between several employees around 11pm (local time) on Sunday in a
privately-managed dormitory,and was brought under control by local police around
3am,it said.State media said 5,000 policemen were involved in quelling the
riot.Chinese Internet sites displayed videos of smashed glass panes and
furniture in the workers' dormitory.This is one among a series of
troubles,including official investigations for labor malpractices,faced by the
Taiwan-based Foxconn.It is the biggest employer in China's electronic industry
with 1.2 million people working for it.It is owned by Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co,the world's largest contract maker of electronic goods.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 14, 2005 Saturday

China promises to repair Japanese embassy

BYLINE: Compiled by Scott Deveau

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; Pacific Rim in Brief; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 232 words


After first scoffing at requests to pay for damage done to Japan's embassy and
consulate during recent anti-Japanse riots, China has reversed course and
promised to restore the buildings to their previous condition, a Japanese
official said this week.

Chinese Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing assured Japanese Vice-Foreign Minister
Ichiro Aisawa in Beijing that the damaged buildings would be restored, chief
cabinet secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda said Wednesday.

Mr. Hosoda said that Mr. Li offered to fix damage to the Japanese embassy and
the ambassador's residence in Beijing and Japan's consulate in Shanghai. He said
the details of the compensation would be worked out in subsequent meetings.

Chinese police stood by as protesters threw rocks and broke windows at the
embassy and consulate during three weekends of demonstrations touched off by a
new Japanese school textbook said to play down wartime atrocities. Also at issue
were modern rivalries over a bid by Japan to join the UN Security Council and a
dispute over gas drilling in the East China Sea.

Mr. Li had earlier rejected a Japanese demand for compensation and an apology
over the damage to the embassy, telling Japan's visiting Foreign Minister last
month that China had never harmed his people - a veiled reminder to Japan that
how badly the Chinese suffered at the hands of the Japanese military during the
Second World War. AP

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Summary of Russian press for Friday 3 August 2012

LENGTH: 2799 words


Kommersant

1. Yuriy Barsukov et al. report headlined "Shelf to be divided between private
[companies]" says that Deputy Prime Minister Arkadiy Dvorkovich will draft a new
economic model of development of offshore oil and gas deposits; major changes
are expected; pp 1-2 (917 words).

2. Andrey Kolesnikov article headlined "Judo experiences Italian Renaissance"
gives an ironic account of President Vladimir Putin's visit to a judo
competition in London; p 1 (381 words).

3. Svetlana Dementyeva and Aleksandra Bayazitova article headlined "Bread
instead" says that another Moscow-based bank, Khlebobank, has lost its licence
over using non-existent securities; pp 1, 8 (765 words).

4. Sofya Samokhina article headlined "Dissenters appear within opposition" says
that the bureau of the Republican Party of Russia - Party of People's Freedom
has refused to take part in the direct election of the opposition's coordinating
council warning that internal competition between opposition leaders will result
in a split. The party's co-chairman Boris Nemtsov, however, supported the
initiative and faced a rebuke by other leaders; pp 1, 3 (614 words).

5. Ivan Buranov article headlined "Prosecutor-General's Office goes to bus stop"
says that the Prosecutor-General's Office has drafted measures to toughen
punishment for violations made by companies and drivers engaged in
transportation of people; p 2 (491 words).

6. Natalya Bashlykova article headlined "Former secret service man sent to run
for Ryazan Region governor" says that Patriots of Russia has nominated deputy
head of the Russian Cooperation Agency Igor Morozov to run for Ryazan Region
governor. If the Kremlin does not intervene, One Russia candidate, acting
governor Oleg Kovalev, may lose the election; p 2 (752 words).

7. Viktor Khamrayev article headlined "Government settles accounts with Krymsk"
says that the government will allocate over R4bn for construction of housing in
Krasnodar Territory after the flood, but will not take any measures to enhance
protection against similar disasters across the country; p 2 (588 words).

8. Yevgeniya Pereplavchenko et. al report headlined "Foreign agent not allowed
to table" says that the Russian branch of Transparency International, which was
going to open a public reception office in Velikiy Novgorod, was not allowed to
have a round table discussion of the recent laws on NGOs, defamation and a
volunteer movement to be set up; p 3 (617 words).

9. Vladislav Trifonov article headlined "Deceived Moldovan does not deserve
lenience" says that the Moscow city court's jury found crime boss from
Vladivostok Vladimir Golban and Sergey Filippenko guilty of murdering Magadan
Region governor Valentin Tsvetkov back in 2002; p 4 (425 words).

10. Kirill Belyaninov article headlined "America catches up with China in
Africa" says that US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's visit to Africa is
Washington's response to China's growing influence in the region; p 4 (475
words).

11. Maksim Yusin article headlined "Missiles secretly fly to opposition" says
that US President Barack Obama sanctioned secret services' assistance to Bashar
al-Asad's opponents in Syria some time ago. The assistance must have been
efficient as the struggle for the town of Aleppo has shown that the
anti-government forces are equipped now much better than a couple of months ago;
p 4 (361 words).

12. Aleksandr Panchenko and Mariya Cherkasova article headlined "Closed sky
regime" says that regulations for air traffic in Sochi during the 2014 Winter
Olympic Games have been drafted; p 10 (504 words).

13. Sergey Sobolev report "STS shrinks" says that the age of the TV channel
STS's target audience is changing from 6-54 to 10-45; p 11 (600 words).

Nezavisimaya Gazeta

1. Viktoriya Panfilova article headlined "Kyrgyzstan to hit Russia with Chinese
railway" says that the Kyrgyz government has suggested that construction of the
China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway be sped up and the branches of China's major
banks be set up in the republic. If the railway is built, this will put an end
to the military, economic and cultural presence of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and may
even threaten Russia's security, experts warn; pp 1, 6 (824 words).

2. Artur Blinov article headlined "CIA's secret operation in Syria" says that
the USA has been conducting a secret operation in Syria for the last few months.
The USA provides financing, equipment, communications devices as well as
intelligence data about the Syrian army to insurgents, CNN says; pp 1-2 (620
words).

3. Aleksey Gorbachev article headlined "'Bolotnaya [Square] probe stalled'" says
that complaints against the arrest of two more suspects in the Bolotnaya Square
case, Nikolay Kavkazskiy and Aleksey Polikhovich, have been filed. In addition,
tough pressure was exerted on another suspect, Stepan Zimin, in order to make
him plead guilty of the crime which he could not have committed; pp 1, 3 (774
words).

4. Olga Shulga article headlined "There is no consent, but there is competition
in right-wing flank" says that contradictions inside the Republican Party of
Russia- Party of People's Freedom have emerged right after its registration:
Boris Nemtsov and Ilya Yashin have criticized their allies' decision not to
participate in the election of the opposition's coordinating council. Meanwhile,
parties with similar ideology keep emerging across Russia; pp 1, 3 (679 words).

5. Anastasiya Bashkatova article headlined "Abnormal purchases" says that
following reports about drought in Russian regions and across the world,
Russians flocked to buy flour, which may only provoke an increase in prices; pp
1, 4 (754 words).

6. Denis Moiseyev article headlined "Kudrin's envoys turn up in Chelyabinsk
Region" says that a regional group of the former Finance Minister Aleksey
Kudrin's Civic Initiatives Committee has been set up in Chelyabinsk Region; p 2
(546 words).

7. Editorial headlined "Return of assets of Russian science" says that state
research funds may lose the state financing they are enjoying and ponders over
options for the Russian science; p 2 (496 words).

8. Ivan Rodin article headlined "Witnesses leave prosecution" says that the
defence of the Pussy Riot group has managed to win a couple of victories during
the fourth day of the trial, but once again has failed to remove the judge they
believe is biased. Meanwhile, bloggers have analyzed the cases the judge has
dealt with and inferred that objectivity and justice can hardly be expected; p 3
(587 words).

9. Yuriy Solomonov article headlined "Struggle for morality in Khamovnicheskiy
[court]" says that the proposal by A Just Russia deputy, police Maj-Gen Tatyana
Moskalkova, that inflicting a moral insult should become a criminal offence in
Russia, is definitely linked to the Pussy Riot case; p 3 (897 words).

10. Igor Naumov article headlined "Russia may end up with gas nobody needs" says
that Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev has ordered to speed up the prospecting of
hydrocarbons on the continental shelf; p 4 (532 words).

11. Viktor Mysnikov interview with Yuriy Urlichich, general director and general
designer of the Rossiyskiye Kosmicheskiye Sistemy (Russian Space Systems)
headlined "How Russian Space Systems becomes leader of industry" where he speaks
about the Glonass navigation system; p 5 (2,889 words).

12. Sokhbet Mamedov article headlined "Azerbaijan creates 'ring of security' in
Caspian area" says that Baku is planning to deploy seven radar stations along
the Caspian coast in line with measures aimed to counter international
terrorism; pp 1, 6 (765 words).

13. Darya Tsiryulik article headlined "USA and Europe put three years back" says
that industrial production keeps dropping in the eurozone and in the USA and
looks at the measures being taken to improve the situation; p 7 (554 words).

14. Saveliy Vezhin article headlined "Russian winter comes to Olympic London"
says that the Ingosstrakh insurance company has arranged a party for heads of
British leading reinsurance and broker companies at the Russia Sochi Park
grounds in London; p 7 (498 words).

15. Nikolay Surkov article headlined "Technocrats move Egyptian Islamists aside"
says that despite expectations, Islamists have got few seats in the Egyptian
government; p 7 (471 words).

16. Vladimir Skosyrev article headlined "USA explains to China who is master at
sea" says that information about a scenario of war with China drafted by the
Pentagon has been leaked in order to make Chinese generals think that the USA is
unbeatable; p 7 (507 words).

Vedomosti

1. Oksana Gavshina article headlined "Traffic jams near Nakhodka" says that
empty cisterns have piled up along the Trans-Siberian railway. Transneft and
Russian Railways officials fear that collapse is possible and blame each other
for the problem; p 1 (640 words).

2. Dmitriy Kazmin and Irina Reznik article headlined "Russian investigation goes
to London court" says that investigator Pavel Karpov has filed a suit with the
High Court of London against Jamison Firestone, Sergey Magnitsky's boss at the
Firestone Duncan law firm; pp 1, 3 (625 words).

3. Yekaterina Kravchenko article headlined "Blank round" says that European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi has signalled that the ECB is ready to join
forces with governments to intervene on the bond market to try to ease the
region's crisis, but a lack of specifics has sent the markets down; pp 1, 3 (568
words).

4. Editorial headlined "Russian siesta" comments on the idea of Russia's chief
medical officer Gennadiy Onishchenko that lunch break should be longer; pp 1, 4
(565 words).

5. Vladimir Mau article headlined "Human capital: Pension and we" looks at the
prospects of the pension system; p 4(1,676 words).

6. Anastasiya Kornya et al. report headlined "Second expert review" says that
former head of the Yukos oil company Mikhail Khodorkovskiy has asked business
ombudsman Boris Titov to carry out a civil probe into his second sentence; p 2
(433 words).

7. Maksim Trudolyubov article headlined "Republic: to deprive youth of power"
says that the authorities are doing their best to complicate the lives of young
people in Russia; p 4 (422 words).

8. Yelena Mazneva article headlined "Counting on cartel" says that judging by
the letters Gazprom exchanged with the Russian Energy Ministry in 2011, the
Russian gas monopoly hoped for collusion with gas exporters from Algeria and
Qatar; p 7 (576 words).

9. Editorial headlined "Why we dislike them" says that inefficient work of state
officials and corruption hamper prosperity of Russia; p 4 (389 words).

10. Mariya Zheleznova and Natalya Kostenko article headlined "Shouting in court"
looks at the latest developments in the Pussy Riot trial; p 2 (356 words).

11. Polina Khimshiashvili article headlined "Syria without plan" says that Kofi
Annan has voiced his intention to resign as UN and Arab League special envoy for
Syria as of 31 August and looks at the latest developments in Syria; p 2 (354
words).

12. Liliya Biryukova report "Alternative to Seliger" says that a camp of young
One Russia members in Lipetsk Region will teach young people how to counteract
the opposition; p 2 (600 words).

13. Kseniya Boletskaya report "Digits for whole Russia" says that by 2015, all
Russians will be able to watch two dozen TV channels in the digital format; p 7
(600 words).

Rossiyskaya Gazeta

1. Vitaliy Petrov article headlined "Up Downing Street" says that President
Vladimir Putin has met British Prime Minister David Cameron to discuss the
Syrian crisis and cooperation between the countries; p 2 (700 words).

2. Aleksandr Gasyuk article headlined "Obama fails test" says that the US
Congress has failed so far to annul the notorious Jackson-Vanik amendment; p 8
(600 words).

3. Vladislav Vorobyev article headlined "Did you order Bin-Ladins?" likens the
assistance that the US special forces are providing to insurgents in Syria to
that the CIA rendered to the Afghan opposition some 40 years ago; p 9 (600
words).

4. Ilya Zubko article headlined "Walking in London with Mashina Vremeni lead
singer" shares his impressions of walking around the Olympic London; p 14 (600
words).

5. Vladimir Snegirev report "Special regime camp" about the journalist's trip to
the Syrian-Turkish border; pp 1, 9 (1,300 words).

Izvestiya

1. Mariya Kiseleva article headlined "Domodedovo accuses Rosaviatsiya of
sabotage" says that the Federal Air Transport Agency and the Transport Ministry
have not made a decision yet on construction of the third take-off runway at
Domodedovo. Experts say the state bodies are intentionally playing for time for
the benefit of state-run Sheremetyevo and Vnukovo airports; pp 1-2 (712 words).

2. Anastasiya Novikova article headlined "Some 70 per cent of Krymsk victims'
complaints turn out to be fictitious" says that the Public Chamber will publish
a report following its members' trip to Krymsk. Preliminary conclusions say that
only 30 per cent of calls were to the point, the rest of the callers distorted
facts in order to get more compensation and attract attention of Moscow
officials; p 1 (445 words).

3. Dina Ushakova article headlined "Business against customs' punitive powers"
says that major business associations are indignant that Russian, Belarusian and
Kazakh customs officers have drafted amendments to the Customs Code of the
Customs Union, which significantly complicate customs procedure and will result
in more corruption; pp 1, 3 (565 words).

4. Mikhail Rubin article headlined "Pre-election promise puts ministries at
odds" says that ministries and the presidential administration differ in their
approach to Vladimir Putin's pre-election promise that the initiatives supported
by more than 100,000 citizens on the internet should be considered by the
government; pp 1-2 (425 words).

5. Natalya Galimova article headlined "To London for Syria and judo" looks at
President Vladimir Putin's visit to Great Britain; p 2 (824 words).

6. Olga Zhermeleva report "Kremlin prepares to elect in new way" says that
before the summer holiday, the State Duma has "forgot" to approve a bill that is
fundamental to the parliament: the law on the State Duma election; p 3 (500
words).

7. Article by political analyst Boris Mezhuyev headlined "End of symphony?" says
that a gap between the authorities and the Russian Orthodox Church is deepening;
p 5 (861 words).

8. Aleksandr Birman article headlined "Seducing of the shrew" looks at TNK-BP's
evolution over the years and why BP is willing to sell its stake now; p 5 (820
words).

9. Aleksey Pevchev interview with Russian producer Aleksandr Cheparukhin on what
makes Western musicians support the Pussy Riot group; p 4 (800 words).

10. Aleksandra Sopova report "Priest Andrey Kurayev accused of anti-Semitism for
thoughts about Pussy Riot" says that the Federation of Jewish Communities of
Russia has accused priest Andrey Kurayev of anti-Semitism; p 4 (600 words).

Moskovskiy Komsomolets

1. Mikhail Rostovskiy report "'Khryushi' get to power" says that Putin is
standing up for the Khryushi Protiv [Piggies are opposed] movement, which wages
a war on the sellers of expired foods; pp 1, 2 (600 words).

2. Yuliya Chernukhina report "Navalnyy expected at Pussy Riot trial" looks at
the hearing of the Pussy Riot punk group case in a Moscow court on 2 August; p 2
(800 words).

3. Stanislav Belkovskiy report "Kseniya Sobchak as successor of Vladimir Putin"
looks at problems facing the Russian opposition; p 3 (750 words).

RBK Daily

1. Ilya Shepelin report "Test for ombudsman" says that former Yukos head Mikhail
Khodorkovskiy has asked business ombudsman Boris Titov to carry out a civil
probe into his second sentence; p 2 (550 words).

2. Tatyana Kosobokova report "Cameron takes Putin to judo competition" looks at
Putin's brief visit to the UK; p 3 (700 words).

3. Unattributed brief report "Udaltsov discloses opposition's plans for autumn"
says that according to leader of the Left Front Sergey Udaltsov, the next March
of Millions will take place on 15 September; p 3 (100 words).

4. Grigoriy Ser report "Pride, lack of prejudice and art" says that the Olympic
Games have united residents of London; p 11 (500 words).

Moskovskiye Novosti

1. Yevgeniy Slyusarenko report "He came. He saw. We won" says that Putin has
attended a judo competition in London during his visit to the UK; p 1 (600
words).

2. Yelena Mishina report "Bulls on Parnassus" says that the new party of Mikhail
Kasyanov, Boris Nemtsov and Vladimir Ryzhkov is preparing the first rally; p 2
(800 words).

Novaya Gazeta

1. Irina Petrovskaya report says that TV is becoming yet another repressive tool
used by the Russian authorities; p 24 (1,300 words).

Sources: as listed

Inclusion of items in this list of significant reports from some of the day's
main Russian  newspapers does not necessarily mean that BBC Monitoring will file
further on them

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            August 1, 2009 Saturday

China soon to try suspects held for deadly ethnic riots;
Of the 1,400 detained, 'a small number' will go before special tribunals

BYLINE: Andrew Jacobs

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 764 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


China will begin trials in the next few weeks for suspects it accuses of playing
a role in the deadly riots that shook the capital of Xinjiang region in early
July, state media reported on Friday.

The English-language China Daily newspaper said officials are organizing special
tribunals that will weigh the fate of ''a small number'' of the 1,400 people who
have been detained, most of them Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority whom
security forces have blamed for many of the killings.

This past week, the authorities arrested an additional 253 suspects, many
through tips provided by residents of Urumqi, the city where the violence took
place. On Thursday, the authorities published the photos of another 15 people,
all but one of them Uighur, who they say had a hand in the unrest. Those who
provide information leading to an arrest  can collect as much as 50,000 yuan,
or $7,350, in reward money.

''The police urge the suspects to turn themselves in,'' China Daily wrote,
quoting an unnamed law enforcement official. ''Those who do so within 10 days
will be dealt with leniently while others will be punished severely.''

In the days after the riots, the head of the Communist Party in Xinjiang was
blunt about what awaits those convicted of the most serious offenses.  ''To
those who have committed crimes with cruel means, we will execute them,'' said
the official, Li Zhi.

The riots, the worst outbreak of ethnic strife in China's recent history, began
on July 5 after protests over the murder of Uighur factory workers in another
part of China turned into a murderous rampage. The violence, which lasted three
days, claimed 197 lives, most of them Han Chinese beaten to death on the
streets, according to the government.

Overseas Uighur advocates, however, insist the official death toll undercounts
the number of Uighurs killed both by paramilitary police and during revenge
attacks by the Han that followed the initial rioting.

China has accused outsiders of instigating the unrest, heaping most of the blame
on Rebiya Kadeer, the 62-year-old leader of the World Uighur Congress, which
advocates self-determination for China's 20 million Uighurs. They say Ms.
Kadeer, a businesswoman who spent years in a Chinese jail before going into
exile, organized the killings from her home in Washington, D.C.

In recent weeks, Ms. Kadeer has been on an aggressive campaign to convince the
world that her people are the primary victims of the rioting. During a visit to
Japan on Wednesday, she told reporters that 10,000 people had disappeared
overnight in the days following the unrest.

''Where did they go?'' she asked. ''Were they all killed or sent somewhere? The
Chinese government should disclose what happened to them.''

Her claims have infuriated China, with one official in Xinjiang describing her
remarks as ''completely fabricated.'' Ms. Kadeer says she cannot reveal the
source of her information because to do so would endanger those who provided it.

This coming week, Ms. Kadeer will head to the Melbourne Film Festival in
Australia, which is screening ''10 Conditions of Love,'' a documentary about her
life. Chinese diplomats have been pressuring Australia to rescind Ms. Kadeer's
visa. So far, those efforts have failed.

If the trials that followed the 2008 riots in Tibet are any guide, the court
hearings in Xinjiang will be swift. According to China Daily, the accused will
be appointed lawyers who have ''received special training,'' as have the judges
who will preside over the cases. Each trial will be heard by a panel of three or
seven judges and the majority opinion will prevail.

Human rights groups, however, say they have little confidence that the tribunals
will be fair. They expect the proceedings to be closed to the public  -  as are
most trials in China  -  and  they note that the defendants will not have
lawyers of their own choosing.

''Without independent legal counsel, you don't have any clue as to what evidence
has been collected and through what means,'' said Renee Xia, international
director of Chinese Human Rights Defenders, based in Hong Kong.

''Were they tortured or coerced to confess? Trials can be speedy, but it doesn't
mean they will be fair.''

A Chinese activist who questioned why so many schoolchildren died in the
devastating earthquake last year has been charged with subversion and will stand
trial, his lawyer said Friday,  The Associated Press reported from Beijing. Tan
Zuoren's trial is to begin Aug. 12 in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province,
where the quake left nearly 90,000 dead or missing, said his lawyer, Pu
Zhiqiang.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

6 more sentenced to die for Chinese riots

BYLINE: Edward Wong and Mark McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: BEIJING

ABSTRACT

Three of the convicts had their sentences suspended for two years. Three others
were given life terms in prison, the official Xinhua news agency reported.

FULL TEXT

Six people were sentenced to death Thursday for their involvement in a deadly
ethnic riot in western China in July, the official Xinhua news agency reported.
Three of the convicts had their sentences suspended for two years.

Three others were given life terms in prison, and five others received lesser
prison sentences,  Xinhua reported. The defendants were tried in three separate
cases. In the first two, the defendants had ethnic Uighur names, while the those
in the third case had Han Chinese names.

In that third case, Han Junbo was sentenced to death and Liu Bo was given a
prison term of 10 years, both for attacking two Uighur men ''on rumors,'' the
report said. One of the victims was killed. It was the first time that
defendants who are apparently Han, the dominant ethnic group in China,  were
sentenced in connection with the rioting that began on July 5.

On Monday, the same court, based in Urumqi, the capital of the western region of
Xinjiang, condemned to death six men with Uighur names in connection with the
riots, which left 197 people dead and injured more than 1,600, most of them Han,
according to the government's reports.

A seventh man was given a life sentence. Those were the first sentences handed
down in the aftermath of the riots; the sentences have been widely criticized by
Uighur groups in exile.

The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Sunni Muslim people who form
the largest ethnic group in Xinjiang. The Xinjiang region has been roiled in
recent months by tensions and clashes between Uighurs and Han. Uighurs have
complained about the dilution of their traditions, as well as the movement of
large numbers of Han Chinese into Xinjiang in recent years.

In the July riots, at least 130 of those killed were Han, according to the
government. The initial rioting on July 5 was the deadliest ethnic conflict in
China in decades, and Han reprisals soon followed.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

6 more sentenced to die for Chinese riots

BYLINE: Edward Wong and Mark McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: BEIJING

ABSTRACT

Three of the convicts had their sentences suspended for two years. Three others
were given life terms in prison, the official Xinhua news agency reported.

FULL TEXT

Six people were sentenced to death Thursday for their involvement in a deadly
ethnic riot in western China in July, the official Xinhua news agency reported.
Three of the convicts had their sentences suspended for two years.

Three others were given life terms in prison, and five others received lesser
prison sentences,  Xinhua reported. The defendants were tried in three separate
cases. In the first two, the defendants had ethnic Uighur names, while the those
in the third case had Han Chinese names.

In that third case, Han Junbo was sentenced to death and Liu Bo was given a
prison term of 10 years, both for attacking two Uighur men ''on rumors,'' the
report said. One of the victims was killed. It was the first time that
defendants who are apparently Han, the dominant ethnic group in China,  were
sentenced in connection with the rioting that began on July 5.

On Monday, the same court, based in Urumqi, the capital of the western region of
Xinjiang, condemned to death six men with Uighur names in connection with the
riots, which left 197 people dead and injured more than 1,600, most of them Han,
according to the government's reports.

A seventh man was given a life sentence. Those were the first sentences handed
down in the aftermath of the riots; the sentences have been widely criticized by
Uighur groups in exile.

The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Sunni Muslim people who form
the largest ethnic group in Xinjiang. The Xinjiang region has been roiled in
recent months by tensions and clashes between Uighurs and Han. Uighurs have
complained about the dilution of their traditions, as well as the movement of
large numbers of Han Chinese into Xinjiang in recent years.

In the July riots, at least 130 of those killed were Han, according to the
government. The initial rioting on July 5 was the deadliest ethnic conflict in
China in decades, and Han reprisals soon followed.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Hundreds arrested in Vietnam after workers riot;
Foreign factories burned as protests over Chinese oil rig spin out of control

BYLINE: CHAU DOAN and THOMAS FULLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam

ABSTRACT

The destruction of foreign-owned factories began during protests of China's
placing an oil rig in disputed waters, but most of the factories were owned by
companies in South Korea and Taiwan.

FULL TEXT

More than 400 people have been arrested after riots in which scores of
foreign-owned factories were damaged or destroyed in an industrial area in
southern Vietnam, the Vietnamese authorities said Wednesday.

The upheaval, which happened on Tuesday, was the worst public unrest in recent
Vietnamese history, involving thousands of workers. It reportedly began as
demonstrations against China's stationing of an oil drilling rig in disputed
waters off Vietnam's coast. But the protests boiled over into widespread
violence as workers rampaged through a dense industrial area in a northern
suburb of Ho Chi Minh City, once known as Saigon. The area has rows of cavernous
buildings where thousands of mostly young workers stitch together sneakers and
clothing for sale around the world.

''No one knows what really caused the riots - only initially did it seem to be
about the Chinese,'' Truong Huy San, an author and well-known blogger, said by
telephone after touring the industrial zone. ''These were totally uncontrolled
crowds.''

The great majority of the affected factories and workshops were owned by
Taiwanese or South Korean companies.

''There was quite a lot of damage,'' said Chen Bor-show, the director general
for the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office, which functions as Taiwan's de
facto consulate in Ho Chi Minh City. Mr. Chen said around 200 Taiwanese
companies had been affected.

The South Korean Foreign Ministry said that 50 Korean-owned factories had been
damaged in the riots and that one South Korean citizen had been hospitalized
with injuries that were not life-threatening.

Mr. San, the blogger, who uses the pen name Huy Duc, said some of the workshops
were severely damaged.

''It's kind of a disaster zone,'' he said. ''Everyone is scared. There are
hundred of factories that will have to close for weeks or months.''

Mr. San said the riots were a signal to Vietnam's authoritarian government that
workers needed avenues to express their grievances. Independent unions are
banned in Vietnam.

''I don't know whether the government recognizes the very important message that
was sent from this province,'' he said. ''The government needs to do something
to change their thinking and policy.''

Tran Van Nam, the vice chairman of Binh Duong Province, where the violence
occurred, was quoted by a Vietnamese online news site, VNExpress, as saying that
around 19,000 workers were involved in the protests on Tuesday.

Another provincial official, Tran Xuan Nam, said in a telephone interview late
Wednesday that the situation there was ''stable'' and that 447 suspects had been
detained. ''We will restore order as soon as possible,'' he said.

Mr. Nam said 20 factories had been ''seriously destroyed.'' He attributed the
riots to ''extremism,'' but did not elaborate.

The Chinese Embassy in Hanoi issued a warning on Wednesday to Chinese citizens
in Vietnam, urging them to ''minimize unnecessary outings.'' The Hong Kong
government posted a travel alert, warning residents to ''avoid protests and
large gatherings of people.''

The business effects of the riots were not immediately clear.

Yue Yuen, a Taiwanese company that manufactures shoes for Nike, Adidas and other
brands, said that it had given its workers in Vietnam the day off on Wednesday
and had not yet decided whether to reopen on Thursday, even though its factories
were not damaged and none of its workers were injured. Jerry Shum, the company's
head of investor relations, said that Yue Yuen expected calm to return quickly
to industrial districts in the country and believed that it could still meet its
monthly production targets.

Even so, the company's shares, listed on the Hong Kong stock market, fell 4.95
percent in heavy trading on Wednesday.

Yue Yuen made 313 million pairs of shoes last year, a third of them in Vietnam -
a measure of the scale of production in Vietnam and its importance to global
trade.

The Taiwanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the rioting and called on
the demonstrators to ''exercise self-control, don't behave irrationally, damage
Taiwanese factory equipment or threaten the safety of Taiwanese business
people.'' Further damage, the statement said, ''could harm Taiwan's willingness
to invest, and harm the longstanding friendly relations between the people of
Taiwan and Vietnam.''

Protests against China began on Monday along roads in the industrial suburb,
according to a statement by the Vietnam Singapore Industrial Park, one of the
affected areas. It said the protesters then had singled out companies that were
owned or managed by Chinese companies or Chinese expatriates.

A Vietnamese official said some of the rioters had circulated through the
industrial area on motorcycles.

The maritime dispute between China and Vietnam, the ostensible spark for the
protests, began in early May when China towed a huge drilling rig to a spot in
the South China Sea 140 miles off the coast of Vietnam and about 17 miles from a
small coral atoll that is claimed by both countries. Each side sent ships and
boats to the area, and there were several confrontations and collisions last
week, with each side blaming the other.

The war of words over the drilling rig continued on Wednesday. The Chinese
foreign minister, Wang Yi, criticized Vietnam for ''dispatching a large number
of ships to forcibly intervene and brutally ram'' Chinese ships, and insisted
that the drilling project was nothing new.

''This operation was started 10 years ago,'' Mr. Wang was quoted as saying in a
statement posted online by the Foreign Ministry.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

Chinese police shoot two Uighurs

SECTION: WORLD; Other World Stories; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 352 words


URUMQI   Chinese police shot dead two people yesterday in renewed unrest in the
far northwestern region of Xinjiang, state media said, after at least 184 people
died in riots last week.

The official Xinhua news agency said the two people killed in the regional
capital Urumqi were Uighur. Police were trying to stop them attacking another
Uighur when the security forces opened fire, the report said. Another Uighur was
injured.

Of the official death toll from the July 5th riots, 137 were Han Chinese, who
form the majority of China s 1.3 billion population, and 46 were Uighur, a
Muslim people native to Xinjiang and culturally tied to central Asia and Turkey.

Uighurs attacked Han Chinese in Urumqi that day after police tried to break up a
protest against fatal attacks on Uighur workers at a factory in south China. Han
Chinese in Urumqi launched revenge attacks later in the week.

Zhou Yongkang, China s top security official, said that while the situation was
improving, the government could not rest on its laurels.  Currently, various
instability factors still exist and the task of maintaining stability is
arduous,  he was quoted as saying.

The importance and urgency in ensuring Xinjiang social order should be fully
learned, and the fight against separatism and terrorism in the region is a
long-term and acute task.

State media said earlier in the day that demonstrations against Chinese
consulates in Europe and the United States showed that ethnic riots were
orchestrated.

Demonstrators threw eggs, Molotov cocktails and stones at several Chinese
embassies and consulates, including in Ankara, Oslo, Munich and the Netherlands,
Xinhua said.

Supporters of the East Turkestan separatists started well-orchestrated and
sometimes violent attacks on Chinese embassies and consulates in several
countries soon after the riots occurred,  Xinhua said, referring to the name
given to their desert homeland by some Uighurs.

The attacks against China s diplomatic missions and the Urumqi riots seemed to
be well-organised.  While security forces blanketed the city, more and more
businesses are reopening.   (Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

China sentences six Uighur Muslim men to death and one to life imprisonment over
ethnic riot

BYLINE: KATHRIN HILLE in Beijing

SECTION: WORLD; Other World Stories; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 397 words


CHINA SENTENCED six men to death and one to life imprisonment yesterday for
murder, arson and robbery during an ethnic riot in Urumqi on July 5th that left
almost 200 people dead.

The harsh verdicts for the seven members of the Muslim Uighur minority are part
of a government attempt to calm tensions in the restive far-western region of
Xinjiang by demonstrating that it is severely punishing the perpetrators of the
riots.

Xinhua, the official news agency, reported the verdicts just hours after state
media had reported the opening of the trials.

The verdicts follow a death sentence late last week handed out to a member of
the Han ethnic majority for instigating an ethnic brawl in a factory in southern
China in which two Uighur workers died. Most Uighurs in Urumqi cite that
incident as the trigger for the July 5th riot.

Beyond the seven men convicted yesterday, the fate of hundreds officially
arrested since the riots, and even more detained without information of their
whereabouts, remains unclear.

They have handpicked these men to send a message that they have caught the worst
offenders and are punishing them harshly,  said Nicholas Bequelin, of Human
Rights Watch in Hong Kong.

Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, told Reuters that
the trial was a sham, adding that he feared that those charged after the riots
had been tortured.  The whole process lacked transparency and was unfair,  he
said.  They were not given any kind of legal aid. Uighurs have no protection
under the law.

Claims last month about alleged syringe attacks by Uighurs against Han Chinese
sparked more unrest in Urumqi, this time among the Han ethnic majority, which
blamed the government for failing to guarantee their safety. They took the rare
step of publicly demanding the resignation of the region s Communist Party
chief. Authorities responded by firing the Urumqi party chief and maintaining
heavy security measures and an information blackout.

The convicts can appeal against the sentences. The authorities did not say
whether any of the death sentences would be commuted to life imprisonment, as
sometimes happens in China. But human rights campaigners said this was unlikely
because the crimes the men were convicted of did not meet the criteria that
China normally follows when commuting or suspending death sentences.

(Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2009)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                             May 12, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

World Report

BYLINE: Star News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1712  words


EUROPE

LOYALISTS BACK PM AGAINST REBELS IN CONFRONTATION

LONDON - Tony Blair urged his Labour party to unite Wednesday, reassuring
legislators he will resign before the next election and confronting critics who
blame him for a disappointingly slim margin of victory in last week's election.

The closed-door meeting was Blair's first battle with party rebels since last
Thursday's election, when an apparent voter backlash over the Iraq war reduced
Labour's majority in the 646-seat House of Commons from 161 to 67.

Meanwhile, Blair told them he would work toward a smooth and orderly transition
to a new leadership in the party.

Many are now asking not whether Blair will hand over the reins to his powerful
and popular finance minister, Gordon Brown, but when.

"He has to give us a timetable," said Labour rebel Glenda Jackson.

JOURNALISTS, TECH WORKERS VOTE FOR STRIKE OVER CUTS

LONDON - British Broadcasting Corp. journalists and technical workers have voted
to strike to protest thousands of job cuts, union officials said Wednesday.

The BBC now faces the threat of a walkout at TV and radio stations across the
country later this month and the possible disruption of some programs.

Meanwhile, 84 per cent of members of the National Union of Journalists voted for
strike action; some 64 per cent of the corporation's 3,500 journalists cast
ballots, the union said.

POLIO CASES RISE IN ONCE INFECTION-FREE YEMEN

GENEVA - The spread of polio in Yemen and Indonesia is adding new urgency to
attempts to contain the disease in countries previously believed to be
polio-free, the UN health agency says.

The outbreak has grown to 63 cases in Yemen, while two more cases were confirmed
in Indonesia, bringing the total there to six since May 3, the World Health
Organization said.

Six million doses of vaccine are on their way to Yemen for a second round of
immunizations and a vaccination campaign is under way in Indonesia, but experts
expect several more polio cases to emerge before the outbreaks are contained.

TWO KILLED, THREE HURT IN BLAST TARGETING POLICE CAR

MAKHACHKALA, Russia - A policeman and a passenger in a passing minivan were
killed in the latest explosion to have targeted a police car in Makhachkala, the
capital of the restive southern province of Dagestan, the regional Interior
Department said Wednesday.

Officials initially had said that one police officer was killed and two
passers-by were wounded in the Tuesday night blast, which destroyed a police
car.

The Interior Department said Wednesday that three passengers including a
teenaged girl in the minivan were badly wounded.

The explosion could be heard in the centre of Makhachkala, the regional capital.
Dagestan borders Chechnya and is plagued by violence, some of it linked to the
war between Russian forces and Chechen rebels and some linked to local criminal
activity.

Dagestan, an ethnically mixed, mostly Muslim region on the Caspian Sea, has been
rocked for months by bombings and other attacks on police and other law
enforcement authorities.

ASIA

JAPAN: CHINA OFFERS TO REPAIR PROTEST DAMAGE

TOKYO - After first scoffing at requests to pay for damage to Japan's Embassy
and consulates from recent anti-Japanese riots, China has quietly reversed
course and promised to restore the buildings to their previous condition, a
Japanese official said Wednesday.

Chinese Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing assured Japanese Vice Foreign Minister
Ichiro Aisawa in Beijing that the damaged buildings would be restored, said
Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda.

Hosoda said that Li offered to fix damage to the Japanese Embassy and the
ambassador's residence in Beijing and Japan's consulate in Shanghai. He said the
details of the compensation would be worked out later.

NORTH KOREA REMOVES SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL RODS

SEOUL, South Korea - North Korea said Wednesday it had completed removing spent
nuclear fuel rods from a reactor, a move that would allow it to harvest more
weapons-grade plutonium, in the communist state's latest provocation amid a
deadlock in disarmament talks.

A North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman said in a statement that the country
had "successfully finished" removing 8,000 fuel rods from the reactor at its
Yongbyon nuclear complex, which was shut down last month, so it can "bolster its
nuclear arsenal."

North Korea kicked out international nuclear inspectors in late 2002, making it
impossible to verify the claim.

OCEANIA

PESKY BUFFALOES TO BE SHOT, FED TO CROCS, SAY POLICE

DARWIN, Australia - Police and wildlife rangers plan to shoot bothersome
buffaloes in a northern Australian town and feed them to crocodiles after the
bulky beasts were blamed for a rash of traffic accidents.

Police said nine men were slightly injured after their bus struck a buffalo
crossing on a road in the town of Nhulunbuy on Monday night.

Buffaloes have also been blamed for two other traffic accidents in recent weeks,
and a near attack on a family camping at the weekend. An old bull charged at the
group, before running off into the bush.

Thousands of buffaloes roam wild, causing damage to the environment.

EXTORTIONIST SAYS HE RELEASED ANIMAL VIRUS

WELLINGTON, N.Z. - An extortionist who claims to have released a deadly
livestock virus on an island near New Zealand's most-populous city has
threatened to strike again, police said Wednesday.

Officials have not confirmed livestock on Waiheke Island near Auckland have been
infected with foot-and-mouth disease and suspect the claim that emerged Tuesday
was a hoax.

But they consider it an emergency that potentially could devastate the country's
agriculture-dependent economy. The EU and Japan already have asked that
lifestock from the island be blocked from their markets.

"Friday is the next date for further threats," police assistant commissioner
Peter Marshall said Wednesday.

CARIBBEAN

CASTRO DEFENDS FUGITIVE SOUGHT BY UNITED STATES

HAVANA - President Fidel Castro has rejected calls to hand over a fugitive that
U.S. officials put on a terrorism list this month, saying she is an innocent
victim of racial persecution.

"They wanted to portray her as a terrorist, something that was an injustice, a
brutality, an infamous lie," Castro said in a television address.

Castro was apparently referring to Assata Shakur -- the former Joanne Chesimard
-- who was put on a U.S. government terrorist watch list on May 2. New Jersey
officials have put a $1 million reward for her capture.

A member of the radical Black Liberation Army, Shakur, 57, was convicted in 1973
of killing New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster as he lay on the ground. She
escaped from prison in 1979 and fled to Cuba.

CAYMAN ELECTIONS FOCUS ON CUTTING TIES TO BRITAIN

GEORGE TOWN, Cayman Islands - Fiercely contested elections in Cayman Islands pit
two parliamentarians who both want greater autonomy from Britain for the
Caribbean offshore banking haven and who both don't want the territory to comply
with European Union rules on taxes.

McKeeva Bush, head of the governing United Democratic Party, would have a new
legislature change the constitution to give more power to elected officials and
less to the Britain.

Kurt Tibbetts, leader of the opposition People's Progressive Movement, would
call a referendum on the issue.

NORTH AMERICA

FATHER ADMITTED KILLING DAUGHTER, CHUM: OFFICIALS

WAUKEGAN, Ill. - The father of an eight-year-old girl who was slain along with
her best friend admitted to authorities that he was the killer, saying he was
angry at his daughter for taking money, authorities said Wednesday.

A judge denied bond for Jerry Hobbs after prosecutors described a videotaped
interview in court in which they said he told investigators he stabbed the girls
to death.

Hobbs' daughter, Laura Hobbs, and her friend Krystal Tobias, 9, were found dead
Monday in a park in Zion, the day after they vanished.

The 34-year-old father, who had been released from a Texas prison last month,
told investigators he was angry at Laura when he tracked her and Krystal in the
wooded park, punched her and then killed both girls, prosecutors said.

RANCH KILLINGS RESULT OF MURDER, SUICIDE: POLICE

GARNER VALLEY, Calif. - The county sheriff confirmed Wednesday that the deaths
of six family members in a remote ranch home were a murder-suicide carried out
by a district attorney's investigator, who killed his mother, wife, three
children and himself with his service weapon.

Sheriff Bob Doyle said David McGowan, 44, left a trail of bloody sockprints and
song lyrics behind as he went on his killing spree in the middle of the night
Tuesday, shooting each victim in the head as they slept.

The victims included his three children -- 14-year-old son Chase, and daughters
Paige, 10, and Rayne, 8. Also killed were his wife Karen, 42, and his mother,
Angelia McGowan, 75. The McGowans have an older son stationed in Iraq, Doyle
said.

Investigators are still looking for a motive, he said, because McGowan seemed
happy at work and at home.

DRIVER IN FATAL CRASH SAYS SHE COULDN'T STOP HER BUS

LIBERTY, Mo. - The driver of a school bus that slammed into two cars at an
intersection, killing two people and injuring 23 elementary school pupils, told
authorities she couldn't get the bus to stop.

Superintendent Scott Taveau said Tuesday that the driver -- identified as Irma
Thomas, 45 -- told him after the crash she tried to halt the bus but didn't say
whether the brakes had failed.

Thomas, who has been driving school buses for the school district for seven
years, had a clean driving record and no traffic citations, according to the
State Department of Revenue.

Twenty-three of the 53 children aboard were injured in Monday's crash, which
killed the drivers of the other vehicles.

Eight pupils remain in hospital. Thomas was in stable condition.

The 84-passenger bus had passed state inspection last month.

FLA. WOMAN, 70, SURVIVES FALL DOWN NINE STOREYS

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. - A 70-year-old woman survived a nine-storey fall from a
condominium tower Wednesday when she landed on a canopy, officials said.

The woman was cleaning her balcony when she fell at Coral Ridge Towers and
landed on a first-floor canopy, said the Fort Lauderdale Fire-Rescue.

The woman, whose identity wasn't released, was alert and talking when rescuers
arrived. She was transported to hospital with non-life-threatening injuries,
rescuers said.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                             June 21, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Most Tibet rioters released

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 186  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


SHANGHAI - China has released most of the 1,315 people detained in the wake of
Tibet's deadly riots because their offences were minor, a senior official said
on Friday.

Courts in Tibet have so far sentenced 42 people for crimes including arson,
robbery and gathering to assault state organizations, Xinhua news agency quoted
Palma Trily, executive vice-chairman of Tibet's government, as saying.

A further 116 people are in custody awaiting trial, and 1,157 have been
released, the official said.

Palma Trily was speaking after human rights group Amnesty International alleged
in a report on Thursday that more than 1,000 people were still detained without
charge in Tibet in the wake of the riots.

China said that report had "not a shred of credibility."

Of the 42 people sentenced, 30 were jailed in April for terms ranging from three
years to life, according to Chinese authorities. A second batch of 12 people was
sentenced late this week, Xinhua said, without specifying their crimes or
sentences.

Chinese authorities say 19 people died in the anti-Chinese rioting which flared
in the Tibetan capital Lhasa on March 14-15.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

It's not all gloom and doom for China and commodities;
Story

BYLINE: Colleen Ryan and Stephen Wyatt BEIJING

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1062 words


The long bull run in shares and resources may have ended, but that doesn't
necessarily mean that the bears will run riot.

China's economy, the engine of growth for the resources boom over the past
decade, has never been more critical for investors. Its performance is one of
the keys to both the resilience of commodity prices and to the health of the
Australian economy.

Three main drivers have fuelled the resources boom over the past decade -
synchronised global growth, a weak US dollar and a booming China. There has now
been a change in all three factors.

With the downturns in the US, Europe and Japan, synchronised global growth is a
thing of the past. The US dollar is shaking off its weakness and has experienced
a strong rally in recent weeks.

A strong and growing China was meant to be the security blanket for the world
economy - at least that was the theory. But China's rate of economic growth too
is slowing. Does this mean it is time to panic?

The answer lies in China's economic outlook and its demand for commodities. Much
will turn on Chinese government policy and the signals so far are promising.

Yes, China is slowing, but not by much. It will probably achieve economic growth
of 9 to 10 per cent for 2008. This is down on the 11.9 per cent growth achieved
in 2007 but it shouldn't be forgotten that last year's blistering performance
was a 13-year record for China and was widely considered to be unsustainable in
the longer term. Growth may slow to 8 to 9 per cent in 2009. China is slowing,
but it is not collapsing.

There are still 700 million rural dwellers left out of the Chinese growth
equation and Beijing is well aware that strong economic growth is important for
political stability. Plus China suffers none of the leverage and excess of the
West, it has a massive pool of underutilised savings and the government is
sitting on huge surpluses.

An important point to note is that the Chinese economy, while having strong
links with the developed world, is not nearly as dependent on it as many
believe. It has been diversifying its export markets over the past five years
(see chart).

And in overall terms, China's exports account for less than 20 per cent of its
growth, while foreign direct investment into China accounts for less than 5 per
cent of its total fixed asset investment.

CLSA China economist Andy Rothman points out that in 2004, net exports accounted
for only 2.4 per cent of Chinese growth, yet GDP rose by 10 to 11 per cent. In
2003, there was a negative contribution from net exports, but GDP growth was 11
to 12 per cent.

Last year, he estimates that net exports accounted for 16 per cent of nominal
GDP growth, but this year the picture will revert to the "normal" situation of
little, if any, net export contribution. And he expects a very modest growth
slowdown.

The size of the slowdown will be the big factor for commodity prices.

Today, China is more important to commodity markets than ever before and the US
is much less important.

China accounts for more than 50 per cent of the growth in global demand for a
host of commodities. The US contribution to demand growth has slumped.

While China will be affected by a downturn in the US, it is the extent of the
flow-on, and the Chinese government's success at countering any slowing, that
will be critical to demand for commodities and hence their prices.

The latest batch of economic statistics from China, all of which have been
released in the past week, help provide a fresh perspective on China's economic
outlook.

It is clear that domestic demand is strong. Retail sales rose by 23 per cent in
July, for example, which was a record rate of growth for China. Fixed asset
investment was also robust at 27.3 per cent growth for the first seven months of
the year. Exports, which had been particularly weak in June, growing by just
17.7 per cent, picked up to a 26.5 per cent growth rate in July.

The grim news from the latest statistics, however, was industrial production.
This is a key indicator of future commodity prices and it was particularly weak
in July, growing at just 14.7 per cent, the slowest rate for 19 months. There
were special factors at play - the Sichuan earthquake and the forced factory
closures during the Olympic Games period - but a key factor was rising costs.
Prices at the factory gate were up by 10 per cent in July, the highest increase
since 1996.

The Chinese leadership is alert to the issues of a slowing economy and what this
might mean for social stability and for its plans to pull its 700 million rural
residents out of poverty.

It will turn to fiscal policy, and in particular to increased infrastructure
investment, to keep the economy buoyant. A government think tank, the State
Information Centre, recommended this week that an emergency investment plan
should be prepared by governments at all levels in case of a sudden drop in
world economic growth.

This would be on top of the need to rebuild areas hit by the devastating
earthquake in Sichuan. Cost estimates announced on Thursday place this
rebuilding at $US147 billion, which is more than three times the annual level of
foreign direct investment in China.

Andy Rothman of CLSA is convinced that China's slowdown will be mild because
domestic consumption and investment remain healthy and, according to Rothman,
they are the main drivers of the economy.

And with the budget deficit at less than 1 per cent of GDP and tax revenue
rising at over 20 per cent a year the government can clearly afford to ramp up
spending. Beijing has a track record here - it has stepped in with accelerated
government spending during previous downturns.

The bottom line for commodity prices? The dramatic seven-year cycle of rising
prices has ended, say Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch analysts, among others.

But rather than a dramatically sharp cyclical downswing, commodity markets are
due for an extended period of consolidation. Prices are likely to consolidate at
lower levels, but still well above average prices of the past 20 years.

This year, 2008, does look like becoming a watershed year, the year that marked
the end of the great 15-year bull market in stocks and seven-year bull market in
commodities.

But for commodities, at least, it is not looking like the year that will mark
the beginning of a major commodity bear market; rather the year that marked the
start of a lengthy consolidation period.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEN GRAPHS: Growing pains. China's GDP growth, 2001 - 2008. Drivers of
China's export growth (%), Jan05 - Jan08. SOURCE: CLSA What's the world coming
to? When oil peaked in July... Oil price ($US/bbl), July - August; the US dollar
got off the floor... $US trade-weighted index (points), July - August; the gold
price softened... Gold price ($US/oz), July - August; commodities fell and...
CRB Index (points), July - August; financial sentiment turned. ASX finance
stocks (index), July - August; But the market is nervous... S&P/ASX 200 (index),
July - August; and central banks are divided... Official interest rates (%pa),
Sep07 - Jul08; as growth slows around the world. Six month change in real growth
rate (%), China, US, Aust, Japan, UK. SOURCE: Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China's 'Haves' Stir the 'Have Nots' to Violence

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN; Chris Buckley contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2808 words

DATELINE: WANZHOU, China, Dec. 24


The encounter, at first, seemed purely pedestrian. A man carrying a bag passed a
husband and wife on a sidewalk. The man's bag brushed the woman's pants leg,
leaving a trace of mud. Words were exchanged. A scuffle ensued.

Easily forgettable, except that one of the men, Yu Jikui, was a lowly porter.
The other, Hu Quanzong, boasted that he was a ranking government official. Mr.
Hu beat Mr. Yu using the porter's own carrying stick, then threatened to have
him killed.

For Wanzhou, a Yangtze River port city, the script was incendiary. Onlookers
spread word that a senior official had abused a helpless porter. By nightfall,
tens of thousands of people had swarmed Wanzhou's central square, where they
tipped over government vehicles, pummeled policemen and set fire to city hall.

Minor street quarrel provokes mass riot. The Communist Party, obsessed with
enforcing social stability, has few worse fears. Yet the Wanzhou uprising, which
occurred on Oct. 18, is one of nearly a dozen such incidents in the past three
months, many touched off by government corruption, police abuse and the
inequality of the riches accruing to the powerful and well connected.

''People can see how corrupt the government is while they barely have enough to
eat,'' said Mr. Yu, reflecting on the uprising that made him an instant
proletarian hero -- and later forced him into seclusion. ''Our society has a
short fuse, just waiting for a spark.''

Though it is experiencing one of the most spectacular economic expansions in
history, China is having more trouble maintaining social order than at any time
since the Tiananmen Square democracy movement in 1989.

Police statistics show the number of public protests reached nearly 60,000 in
2003, an increase of nearly 15 percent from 2002 and eight times the number a
decade ago. Martial law and paramilitary troops are commonly needed to restore
order when the police lose control.

China does not have a Polish-style Solidarity labor movement. Protests may be so
numerous in part because they are small, local expressions of discontent over
layoffs, land seizures, use of natural resources, ethnic tensions, misspent
state funds, forced immigration, unpaid wages or police killings. Yet several
mass protests, like the one in Wanzhou, show how people with different causes
can seize an opportunity to press their grievances together.

The police recently arrested several advocates of peasant rights suspected of
helping to coordinate protest activities nationally. Those are worrying signs
for the one-party state, reflexively wary of even the hint of organized
opposition.

Wang Jian, a researcher at the Communist Party's training academy in Changchun,
in northeast China, said the number and scale of protests had been rising
because of ''frictions and even violent conflicts between different interest
groups'' in China's quasi market economy.

''These mass incidents have seriously harmed the country's social order and
weakened government authority, with destructive consequences domestically and
abroad,'' Mr. Wang wrote in a recent study.

China's top leaders said after their annual planning session in September that
the ''life and death of the party'' rests on ''improving governance,'' which
they define as making party officials less corrupt and more responsive to public
concerns.

But the only accessible outlet for farmers and workers to complain is the
network of petition and appeals offices, a legacy of imperial rule. A new survey
by Yu Jianrong, a leading sociologist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
in Beijing, found that petitions to the central government had increased 46
percent in 2003 from the year before, but that only two-hundredths of 1 percent
of those who used the system said it worked.

Last month, as many as 100,000 farmers in Sichuan Province, frustrated by months
of fruitless appeals against a dam project that claimed their land, took matters
into their own hands. They seized Hanyuan County government offices and barred
work on the dam site for days. It took 10,000 paramilitary troops to quell the
unrest.

Also in November, in Wanrong County, Shanxi Province, in central China, two
policemen were killed when enraged construction workers attacked a police
station after a traffic dispute. Days later, in Guangdong Province, in the far
south, riots erupted and a toll booth was burned down after a woman claimed she
had been overcharged to use a bridge. In mid-December, a village filled with
migrant workers in Guangdong erupted into a frenzy of violence after the police
caught a 15-year-old migrant stealing a bicycle and beat him to death. Up to
50,000 migrants rioted there, Hong Kong newspapers reported.

Wanzhou officials initially treated their riot in October as a fluke. They
ordered Mr. Hu to declare on television that he is a fruit vendor, not a public
official, and that his confrontation with Mr. Yu was a mistake. The police
arrested a dozen people and declared social order restored.

But the uprising alarmed Beijing, which told local officials they would be
sacked if they failed to prevent recurrences, according to Chinese journalists
briefed on the matter. Luo Gan, the member of the Politburo Standing Committee
who is in charge of law and order, issued national guidelines warning that
''sudden mass incidents'' were increasing and calling for tighter police
measures.

More than a dozen people interviewed in Wanzhou, part of Chongqing Municipality,
described the city as tense. All said that they still believed that Mr. Hu was
indeed an official and that the government concocted a cover story to calm
things down. They say the anger excited by the riot awaits only a new affront.

The Chance Encounter

 Like many farmers in the steeply graded hills along the Yangtze, Mr. Yu, 57,
supplements his income hauling loads up and down city roads -- grain,
fertilizer, air conditioners, anything that he can balance on a bamboo pole and
hoist on his slender shoulder. Sweaty and dirty, porters put their low-paying
profession on parade. They are often referred to simply as bian dan, or pole
men.

Mr. Yu's lot is better than some others. He has another sideline collecting hair
cuttings off the floors of beauty salons and barber shops, packing them in big
burlap bags and selling them to wig-makers down south.

On Oct. 18, he spent several hours collecting hair from upscale salons along
Baiyan Road, a busy shopping street that runs near the government square
downtown. His load was light -- two bags of loose locks -- and he scurried down
the sidewalk to lunch.

''Hey, pole man, you got dirt all over my pants!'' he heard a woman shout. When
he turned to face her, the man by her side, Mr. Hu, was glaring at him.

''What are you looking at, bumpkin?'' Mr. Yu recalls Mr. Hu saying.

Mr. Yu is mild mannered, with a slightly raffish grin stained yellow from chain
smoking. Mr. Hu, wearing a coat and tie and leather shoes, looked like he might
be important. Mr. Yu said he should have let the moment pass. He did not.

''I work like this so that my daughter and son can dress better than I do, so
don't look down on me,'' he recalled saying. Then he added, ''I sell my strength
just as a prostitute sells her body.''

Mr. Yu said he was drawing a general comparison. Mr. Hu and his young wife, Zeng
Qingrong, apparently thought he had insinuated something else. She jerked his
shirt collar and slapped his ear. Mr. Hu picked up Mr. Yu's fallen pole and
struck him in the legs and back repeatedly.

Perhaps for the benefit of the crowd, Mr. Hu shouted that it was Mr. Yu,
sprawled on the pavement, who was in big trouble.

''I'm a public official,'' Mr. Hu said, according to Mr. Yu and other
eyewitnesses. ''If this guy causes me more problems, I'll pay 20,000 kuai'' --
about $2,500 -- ''and have him knocked off.''

Those words never appeared in the state-controlled media. But is difficult to
find anyone in Wanzhou today who has not heard some version of Mr. Hu's bluster:
The putative official -- he has been identified in the rumor mill as the deputy
chief of the local land bureau -- had boasted that he could have a porter killed
for $2,500. It was a call to arms.

Mr. Hu's threat, spread by mobile phones, text messages and the swelling crowd,
encapsulated a thousand bitter grievances.

''I heard him say those exact words,'' said Wen Jiabao, another porter who says
he witnessed the confrontation. ''It proves that it's better to be rich than
poor, but that being an official is even better than being rich.''

Xiang Lin, a 18-year-old auto mechanic, had seen China's rising wealth when he
worked near Shanghai. But when he returned home to Wanzhou, he felt frustrated
that his plan to open a repair shop foundered. He was drawn downtown by the
excitement.

''Don't officials realize that we would not have any economic development in
Wanzhou without the porters?'' Mr. Xiang asked.

Cai Shizhong, a taxi driver, was angered when the authorities created a company
to control taxi licenses, which he says cost him thousands of dollars but
brought no benefits. The police also fine taxi drivers left and right, he said.

''If you drive a private car, they leave you alone because you might be
important,'' Mr. Cai said. ''If you drive a taxi, they find any excuse to take
your money.''

Peng Daosheng's home was flooded by the rising reservoir of the Three Gorges
Dam. He was supposed to receive $4,000 in compensation as well as a new home.
But his new apartment is smaller and less well located, and the cash never
arrived.

''The officials take all the money for themselves,'' said Mr. Peng, who spent
eight hours protesting that night. ''I guess that's why that guy had $2,500 to
kill someone.''

It took the police more than four hours to remove Mr. Hu and Mr. Yu from the
scene. The crowd surrounded police cars and refused to budge, afraid the police
would cover up the beating, and even punish Mr. Yu.

''People knew the matter would never be resolved fairly behind closed doors,''
Mr. Yu said.

Even after the police formed a cordon around two cars -- one for Mr. Hu and his
wife, another for Mr. Yu -- the crowd smashed the windows of the car carrying
the couple. It was nearly 5 p.m. before the vehicles crawled through the
assembled masses.

A Loss of Control

 The police may have hoped that removing the main actors from the scene would
defuse the tension. Instead, the crowd rampaged. At 6 p.m., a police van was
surrounded and the policeman inside was beaten with bricks. Seven or eight
people tipped the car over, stuffed toilet paper into the gas tank and set it
ablaze, according to witnesses and a police report.

When a fire truck arrived, the fire fighters were forced out and their truck
commandeered. A driver smashed it into brick wall, then backed up and repeated
the move to render the truck immobile.

''They lost control at once,'' recalled Mr. Cai, the taxi driver, who wandered
through the crowd that day. ''Suddenly the police were nobody and the people
were in charge.''

The local government never published an estimate of how many people took part in
the protest. But unofficial estimates by Chinese journalists on the scene ranged
from 30,000 to 70,000, enough to stop all traffic downtown and fill the
government square.

By 8 p.m., the rally focused on the 20-story headquarters of the Wanzhou
District Government, with its blue-tinted windows and imposing terrace facing
the square. The crowd chanted, ''Hand over the assassin!'' Riot-police officers
in full protective gear -- but carrying no guns -- held the terrace. Officials
with loudspeakers urged the crowd to disperse, promising that the incident would
be handed according to law.

But the mob now followed its own law. An assembly line formed from a nearby
construction site. Concrete building slabs were ferried along the line, then
shattered with sledgehammers to make projectiles. Front-line rioters hurled the
rocks at the police -- tentatively at first, then in volleys.

Under the barrage, the police retreated. Protesters charged the terrace,
shattered the windows and doors of government headquarters and surged inside.

Official documents were scattered. Protesters dumped computers and office
furniture off the terrace. Soon, a raging fire illuminated the square with its
flickering orange glow.

Li Jian, 22, took part in the plunder. A young peasant, he had found a city job
as a short-order cook. But he longed to study computers, said his father, Li
Wanfa. The family bought an old computer keyboard so the young man could learn
typing.

''He wanted to go to high school but the school said his cultural level was not
high enough,'' Mr. Li said. ''They said a country boy like him should be a
cook.''

The police arrested young Mr. Li scurrying through the melee with a Legend-brand
computer that belonged to the government, according to an arrest notice.

Yet even at the height of the incident, rioters set limits. They did not attack
any of the restaurants or department stores along the government square,
focusing their wrath on symbols of official power.

By midnight, the crowd dwindled on its own. When paramilitary troops finally
arrived on the scene after 3 a.m., there were only a few thousand hard-core
protesters left.

''Most people went home,'' said Mr. Peng, the man whose home had been flooded by
the dam. ''But the armed police were fierce. They beat you even if you kneeled
down before them.''

The Tensions Persist

 The local government praised its own handling of the riot. An assessment
published three days afterward in The Three Gorges City News, the daily paper of
the Wanzhou Communist Party, also declared the uprising had no lasting
ramifications.

''The district government displayed its strong governing ability at a crucial
moment,'' the report said. ''This incident was caused by a handful of agitators
with ulterior motives who whipped up a street-side dispute into a mass riot.''

The uprising did dissipate as quickly as it emerged. Baiyan Road now bustles
with afternoon shoppers. After work, dancers bundled against the damp chill use
government square as an outdoor ballroom, a synthesized two-step beat filling
the night air.

Yet the underlying tensions did not disappear.

When the Wan Min Cotton Textile Factory declared bankruptcy in mid-December,
scores of policemen occupied the factory grounds to prevent a riot. The next
day, a handful of workers from the factor went to city hall to protest. Several
hundred uniformed police surrounded them.

Mr. Xiang, the auto mechanic, was arrested for throwing stones and taken into
custody. One day, returning from the cold showers inmates were required to take
in the unheated jail, guards told him to kneel. One elbowed him in the back and
several others kicked him in the gut.

As he lay prostrate, a prison supervisor said: ''Nothing happened to you here,
did it? You're a smart kid.''

He could not eat for two days.

''We were all brothers inside,'' he said of his fellow detainees. ''The
officials despise the ordinary people and are not afraid to bully them.''

Then there's Mr. Yu. He missed the riot that occurred in his name, but has been
under pressure ever since. The government kept him isolated in a hospital for
nearly two weeks, even though bruises on his legs and the stitches he needed
above his eye had healed.

His daughter and son were told to take a vacation, paid by the government, to
avoid contact with the news media. ''They told us not to talk or it would hurt
the city,'' Mr. Yu said in his first interview.

Yet he said what really shook him was the reaction to the statement he made to
Wanzhou television on Oct. 20, two days after the riot. The government told him
to appear -- he was still under guard -- and had prepared questions in advance.

''They told me to emphasize the importance of law and order,'' he said. ''I was
told just to answer the questions and not to say anything else.''

What he said on the evening news sounded innocuous enough. ''Let this be handled
by law,'' Mr. Yu told viewers. ''Everyone should stay at home.''

So he was unprepared for the backlash.

Relatives of those arrested criticized him for propagandizing for the
government, saying their kin felt betrayed. Neighbors warned him not to plant
rice this year because his enemies would just rip it out. His wife says she
wants to move because she has heard too many threats.

Mr. Yu is understandably confused.

''First an official tries to break my legs because I am a dirty porter,'' he
said. ''Now the common people want to break my legs because I spoke for the
government.''

The Great Divide

  Articles in this series are examining the widening gap between the rural poor
and urban rich that has made China, the world's fastest-growing economy, also
one of its most unequal societies. The first seven articles and an audio report
by Joseph Kahn are online at nytimes.com/world.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE GREAT DIVIDE: Talking Back to Power

GRAPHIC: Photos: What started as a mildly annoying encounter on Oct. 18 between
a porter and a man who claimed to be a senior official in Wanzhou, in central
China, turned into a full-scale riot, fed by resentment among poorer residents.
(Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
The porter, Yu Jikui, aided by his wife, Chen Shouqun, also collects hair from
barbers for wig-makers. ''Our society has a short fuse,'' he said, ''just
waiting for a spark.'' (Photo by Du Bin for The New York Times)
 For Wen Jiabao, ''being an official is even better than being rich.'' (Photo by
Du Bin for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Map of China highlighting Wanzhou:
Workers angry at a richer man's arrogance rioted in October in Wanzhou. (pg.
A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Seals Off Cities Battered by Ethnic Fight

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Michael Wines, Jonathan Ansfield and Xiyun Yang
contributed reporting from Beijing, and David Barboza from Shanghai. Huang
Yuanxi contributed research from Beijing, and Chen Yang from Shanghai.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

DATELINE: URUMQI, China


The Chinese government locked down this regional capital of 2.3 million people
and other cities across its western desert region on Monday and early Tuesday,
imposing curfews, cutting off cellphone and Internet services and sending armed
police officers into neighborhoods after clashes erupted here on Sunday evening
between Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese. The fighting left at least 156 people
dead and more than 1,000 injured, according to the state news agency.

But hundreds of Uighur protesters defied the police again on Tuesday morning,
crashing a state-run tour of the riot scene for foreign and Chinese journalists.
A wailing crowd of women, joined later by scores of Uighur men, marched down a
wide avenue with raised fists and tearfully demanded that the police release
Uighur men who they said had been seized from their homes after the violence.
Some women waved the identification cards of men who had been detained.

As journalists watched, the demonstrators smashed the windshield of a police car
and several police officers drew their pistols before the entire crowd was
encircled by officers and paramilitary troops in riot gear.

''A lot of ordinary people were taken away by the police,'' a protester named
Qimanguili, a 13-year-old girl clad in a white T-shirt and a black headscarf,
said, crying. She said her 19-year-old brother had been taken away by police
officers on Monday, long after the riots had ended.

The confrontation later ebbed to a tense standoff between about 100 protesters,
mostly women, some carrying infants, and riot police in black body armor and
helmets, tear-gas launchers at the ready, in a Uighur neighborhood pocked with
burned-out homes and an automobile sales lot torched during the Sunday riots.

The fighting on Sunday was the deadliest episode of ethnic violence in China in
decades. The bloodshed here, along with the Tibetan uprising last year, shows
the extent of racial hostility that still pervades much of western China, fueled
partly by economic disparity and by government attempts to restrict religious
and political activity by minority groups.

The rioting, which began as a peaceful protest calling for a full government
inquiry into an earlier brawl between Uighurs and Han Chinese at a factory in
southern China, took place in the heart of Xinjiang, an oil-rich desert region
where Uighurs are the largest ethnic group but are ruled by the Han, the
dominant ethnic group in the country.

Protests spread Monday to the heavily guarded town of Kashgar, on China's
western border, as 200 to 300 people chanting ''God is great'' and ''Release the
people'' confronted riot police officers about 5:30 p.m. in front of the city's
yellow-walled Id Kah Mosque, the largest mosque in China. They quickly dispersed
when officers began arresting people, one resident said.

Internet social platforms and chat programs appeared to have unified Uighurs in
anger over the way Chinese officials had handled the earlier brawl, which took
place in late June thousands of miles away in Shaoguan, Guangdong Province.
There, Han workers rampaged through a Uighur dormitory, killing at least two
Uighurs and injuring many others, according to the state news agency, Xinhua.
Police officers later arrested a resentful former factory worker who had ignited
the fight by spreading a rumor that six Uighur men had raped two Han women at
the site, Xinhua reported.

But photographs that appeared online after the battle showed people standing
around a pile of corpses, leading many Uighurs to believe that the government
was playing down the number of dead Uighurs. One Uighur student said the
photographs began showing up on many Web sites about one week ago. Government
censors repeatedly tried to delete them, but to no avail, he said.

''Uighurs posted it again and again in order to let more people know the truth,
because how painful is it that the government does bald-faced injustice to
Uighur people?'' said the student, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for
fear of retribution from the government.

A call for protests spread on Web sites and QQ, the most popular
instant-messaging program in China, despite government efforts to block online
discussion of the feud.

By Tuesday morning, more than 36 hours after the start of the protest, the
police had detained more than 1,400 suspects, according to Xinhua. More than 200
shops and 14 homes had been destroyed in Urumqi, and 261 motor vehicles, mostly
buses, had been burned, Xinhua reported, citing Liu Yaohua, the regional police
chief.

Police officers operated checkpoints on roads throughout Xinjiang on Monday.
People at major hotels said they had no Internet access. Most people in the city
could not use cellphones.

At the local airport, five scrawny, young men wearing black, bulletproof vests
and helmets stood outside the terminal, holding batons. The roadways leading
into the city center were empty early on Tuesday, except for parked squad cars
and clusters of armored personnel carriers and olive military trucks brimming
with paramilitary troops. An all-night curfew had been imposed.

Residents described the central bazaar in the Uighur enclave, where much of the
rioting took place, as littered with the charred hulks of buses and cars. An
American teacher in Urumqi, Adam Grode, and another foreigner said they had
heard gunfire long after nightfall Sunday.

Xinhua did not give a breakdown of the 156 deaths, and it was unclear how many
of them were protesters and how many were other civilians or police officers.
There were no independent estimates of the number of the death toll. At least
1,000 people were described as having protested.

Photographs online and video on state television showed injured people lying in
the streets, not far from overturned vehicles that had been set ablaze.
Government officials gave journalists in Urumqi a disc with a video showing
bodies strewn in the streets.

The officials also released a statement that laid the blame directly on Rebiya
Kadeer, a Uighur businesswoman and human rights advocate who had been imprisoned
in China and now lives in Washington. It said the World Uighur Congress, a group
led by ''the splittist'' Ms. Kadeer, ''directly ignited, plotted and directed
the violence using the Shaoguan incident in Guangdong.'' The statement said
bloggers first began calling for the protest on Saturday night and also used QQ
and online bulletin boards to organize a rally at People's Square and South Gate
in the Uighur quarter of Urumqi.

The World Uighur Congress rejected the accusations and said that it condemned
''in the strongest possible terms the brutal crackdown of a peaceful protest of
young Uighurs.'' The group said in a statement on Monday that Uighurs had been
subject to reprisals not only from Chinese security forces but also from Han
Chinese civilians who attacked homes, workplaces or dormitories after the riots
on Monday.

The violence on Sunday dwarfed in scale assaults on security forces last year in
Xinjiang. It was deadlier, too, than any of the bombings, riots and protests
that swept through the region in the 1990s and that led to a government
clampdown.

Uighurs make up about half of the 20 million people in Xinjiang but are a
minority in Urumqi, where Han Chinese dominate. The Chinese government has
encouraged Han migration to many parts of Xinjiang, and Uighurs say that the Han
tend to get the better jobs in Urumqi. The government also maintains tight
control on the practice of Islam, which many Uighurs cite as a source of
frustration.

But an ethnic Han woman who lives in an apartment near the central bazaar said
in a telephone interview that the government should show no sympathy toward the
malcontents.

''What they should do is crack down with a lot of force at first, so the
situation doesn't get worse, so it doesn't drag out like in Tibet,'' she said
after insisting on anonymity. ''Their mind is very simple. If you crack down on
one, you'll scare all of them. The government should come down harder.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Urumqi residents on Monday walked past burned cars. The
government sent police officers into the city after deadly fighting.(PHOTOGRAPH
BY NG HAN GUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 People who were injured in ethnic riots rested in a city hospital on Monday
during a government tour for the media.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS)(A6)
MAP:The government locked down Urumqi after ethnic clashes. Map details Urumqi,
China.(A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In His First Remarks on Riots, China's President Vows to 'Deal a Blow' to
Protesters

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Edward Wong contributed reporting from Urumqi, China.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


In his first comments on the deadly riots in China's far northwest, President Hu
Jintao called Thursday for stability and promised harsh punishment for those
found to have played a role in the disturbances that have killed scores of
people and injured more than a thousand.

Mr. Hu, who cut short his appearance at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Italy,
issued a statement along with the Communist Party's top leadership that calls on
the authorities to ''isolate and deal a blow to the small group'' who had a hand
in the bloodshed, which killed at least 156 people during three days of unrest
in Urumqi, the provincial capital of Xinjiang. They also suggested there would
be leniency for those who had been ''misled'' by agitators.

''Preserving and maintaining the overall stability of Xinjiang is currently the
most urgent task,'' said Mr. Hu, according to a statement published by the New
China News Agency.

On Wednesday, the party chief of Urumqi offered even tougher words. ''To those
who have committed crimes with cruel means, we will execute them,'' said the
official, Li Zhi.

Mr. Hu's statement, jointly issued by the other eight members of the Politburo,
came as Urumqi settled into a second day of uneasy calm. As many as 20,000
troops from nearby regions poured into the city, forming human cordons between
Uighur neighborhoods and those dominated by Han Chinese, who had earlier gone on
a revenge spree against Uighur residents.

Both Uighur and Han claim to be the predominant victims of the violence, but the
government has declined to release a breakdown of the dead.

A nighttime curfew remained in Urumqi, but by 8 a.m. on Thursday shops were
beginning to reopen for the first time as thousands of anxious residents clogged
the city's bus and train stations seeking to escape the city. As helicopters
hovered overhead, military vans roamed the streets with loudspeakers blaring
slogans like ''Maintain stability'' and ''Protect the people.''

The turmoil began at a southern Chinese shoe factory last month after Chinese
workers, spurred by false accusations of rape, attacked Uighur co-workers,
killing at least two. The government's failure to  aggressively prosecute those
involved in the brawl became a rallying cry for Uighur students in Urumqi, who
organized the protest last Sunday that turned violent.

Uighurs, who are Turkic-speaking Muslims, form a minority in Urumqi, a city of
2.3 million that has been heavily settled by ethnic Han from other parts of
China. The influx of so many outsiders, and what many describe as Beijing's
heavy-handed rule, have helped foment resentment among Uighurs.

Since the turmoil began on Sunday, China has accused Rebiya Kadeer, an exiled
Uighur leader, of fomenting the strife. Ms. Kadeer, who lives in Washington
D.C., has denied the charge.

But on Wednesday, the government for the first time shifted some of the blame to
the United States, which it accused of financing Ms. Kadeer's organization, the
World Uygur Congress, and other groups that advocate human rights and democracy
for ethnic Uighurs in China. The accusation appeared in an article in the
Peoples Daily, the Communist Party's official newspaper. In recent days Turkey,
which has cultural and linguistic ties to China's Uighurs, has stepped into the
fray. On Thursday the minister for trade and industry called for a boycott of
Chinese goods to protest the crackdown in Xinjiang. ''If the country where we
consume the goods does not respect human values, we should reconsider our
values,'' said the minister, Nihat Ergun, according to the Anatolia news agency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chinese soldiers stood next to Uighur women at a security fence
in Urumqi, which has settled into an uneasy calm.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER
PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Countering Riots, China Snatches Hundreds From Their Homes

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Zhang Jing contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1132 words

DATELINE: URUMQI, China


The two boys were seized while kneading dough at a sidewalk bakery.

The livery driver went out to get a drink of water and did not come home.

Tuer Shunjal, a vegetable vendor, was bundled off with four of his neighbors
when he made the mistake of peering out from a hallway bathroom during a police
sweep of his building.  ''They threw a shirt over his head and led him away
without saying a word,'' said his wife, Resuangul.

In the two weeks since ethnic riots tore through Urumqi, the regional capital of
Xinjiang, killing more than 190 people and injuring more than 1,700, security
forces have been combing the city and detaining hundreds of people, many of them
Uighur men whom the authorities blame for much of the slaughter.

The Chinese government has promised harsh punishment for those who had a hand in
the violence, which erupted July 5 after a rally by ethnic Uighurs angry over
the murder of two factory workers in a distant province. First came the packs of
young Uighurs, then the Han Chinese mobs seeking revenge.

''To those who have committed crimes with cruel means, we will execute them,''
Li Zhi, the top Communist Party official in Urumqi, said July 8.

The vow, broadcast repeatedly, has struck fear into Xiangyang Po, a grimy
quarter of the city dominated by Uighurs, Turkic-speaking Muslims who have often
had an uneasy relationship with China's Han majority. Uighurs are the largest
ethnic group in Xinjiang, but in Urumqi, Han make up more than 70 percent of the
2.3 million residents.

It was here on the streets of Xiangyang Po, amid the densely packed tenements
and stalls selling thick noodles and lamb kebabs, that many Han were killed. As
young Uighur men marauded through the streets, residents huddled inside their
homes or shops, they said; others claim they gave refuge to Han neighbors.

''It was horrible for everyone,'' said Leitipa Yusufajan, 40, who spent the
night cowering at the back of her grocery store with her 10-year-old daughter.
''The rioters were not from here. Our people would not behave so brutally.''

But to security officials, the neighborhood has long been a haven for those bent
on violently cleaving Xinjiang, a northwest region, from China. Last year,
during a raid on an apartment, the authorities fatally shot two men they said
were part of a terrorist group making homemade explosives. Last Monday, police
officers killed two men and wounded a third, the authorities said, after the men
tried to attack officers on patrol.

''This is not a safe place,'' said Mao Daqing, the local police chief.

Local residents disagree, saying the neighborhood is made up of poor but
law-abiding people, most of them farmers who came to Urumqi seeking a slice of
the city's prosperity. Interviews with two dozen people showed vehement
condemnation of the rioters. ''Those people are nothing but human trash,'' one
man said, spitting on the ground.

Still, the police response has been indiscriminate, they said. Nurmen Met, 54,
said his two sons, 19 and 21, were nabbed as riot officers entered the public
bathhouse his family owns. ''They weren't even outside on the day of the
troubles,'' he said, holding up photos of his sons. ''They are good, honest
boys.''

Many people said they feared that their family members might be swallowed up by
a penal system that is vast and notoriously opaque. Last year, in the months
leading to the Beijing Olympics, the authorities arrested and tried more than
1,100 people in Xinjiang during a campaign against what they called ''religious
extremists and separatists.''

Shortly after the arrests, Wang Lequan, the region's Communist Party secretary,
described the crackdown as a ''life and death'' struggle.

Uighur exile groups and human rights advocates say the government sometimes uses
such charges to silence those who press for greater religious and political
freedoms. Trials, they say, are often cursory. ''Justice is pretty rough in
Xinjiang,'' said James Seymour, a senior research fellow at the Chinese
University of Hong Kong.

In a sign of the sensitivities surrounding the unrest, the Bureau for Legal
Affairs in Beijing has warned lawyers to stay away from cases in Xinjiang,
suggesting that those who assist anyone accused of rioting pose a threat to
national unity. Officials on Friday shut down the Open Constitution Initiative,
a consortium of volunteer lawyers who have taken on cases that challenge the
government and other powerful interests. Separately, the bureau canceled the
licenses of 53 lawyers, some of whom had offered to help Tibetans accused of
rioting last year in Lhasa, the capital of Tibet.

Rights advocates say that if the trials in Xinjiang resemble those that took
place in Tibet, many defendants will receive long sentences. ''There is a lot of
concern that those who have been detained in Xinjiang will not get a fair
trial,'' said Wang Songlian, a research coordinator at Chinese Human Rights
Defenders, an advocacy group.

Residents of Xiangyang Po say police officers made two morning sweeps through
the neighborhood after the rioting began, randomly grabbing boys as young as 16.
That spurred a crowd of anguished women to march to the center of Urumqi to
demand the men's release.

But none of the detainees has come home, the residents say, and the authorities
have refused to provide information about their whereabouts.

''I go to the police station every day, but they just tell me to be patient and
wait,'' said Patiguli Palachi, whose husband, an electronics repairman, was
taken in his pajamas with four other occupants of their courtyard house. Ms.
Palachi said they might have been detained because a Han man was killed outside
their building, but she insisted that her husband was not involved. ''We were
hiding inside at the time, terrified like everyone else,'' she said.

Although it was impossible to verify the accounts of the residents, as Ms.
Palachi spoke, more than 10 people gathered to share similar accounts.

Emboldened by the presence of foreign journalists, the group decided to walk to
the local police station to confront the police again. ''Maybe if you are with
us, they will give an answer,'' said Memet Banjia, a vegetable seller looking
for his  son. ''Probably they will say nothing and the next day we will
disappear, too.''

But the meeting with the police was not to be. As the residents approached the
station house, a squad car roared up  and the crowd melted away. The foreigners
were ordered into the car and driven to the station house. After an hour's wait,
a pair of high-ranking security officials arrived with a lecture and a warning.

''You can't be here; it's too unsafe,'' one of them said as he drove the
foreigners back to the heavily patrolled center of the city. ''It's for your own
good.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nurmen Met held photographs of his sons, 19 and 21, who he said
had been taken by riot officers as they entered the public bathhouse his family
owns.
 Patiguli Palachi, left, with her stepdaughter, said she had gone to the police
station every day since her husband was arrested.  (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHARINA
HESSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)  MAPS: Uighurs rioted against the Han in Urumqi on
July 5. Map details Urumqi, China, specifically, the Xinjiang autonomous region,
and the Xian Yang Po market, one area of rioting.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

China to Try Those Held In Rioting In the West

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


China will begin trials in the next few weeks for suspects it accuses of playing
a role in the deadly riots that shook the capital of the Xinjiang region in
early July, state media outlets reported Friday.

The English-language China Daily newspaper said officials were organizing
special tribunals to weigh the fate of ''a small number'' of the 1,400 people
who have been detained, most of them Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority
whom security forces have blamed for much of the killing.

Earlier this week, the authorities arrested an additional 253 suspects, many
through tips provided by residents of Urumqi, the regional capital where the
violence took place. On Thursday, the authorities published the photographs of
an additional 15 people, all but one of them Uighur, who they say had a hand in
the unrest. Those who provide information leading to an arrest can collect as
much as $7,350 in reward money.

''The police urged the suspects to turn themselves in,'' China Daily wrote,
quoting an unidentified law enforcement official. ''Those who do so within 10
days will be dealt with leniently, while others will be punished severely.''

In the days after the riots, the head of the Communist Party in Xinjiang was
blunt about what awaits those convicted of the most serious offenses. ''To those
who have committed crimes with cruel means, we will execute them,'' said the
official, Li Zhi.

The riots, the worst outbreak of ethnic strife in China's recent history, began
July 5 after protests over the deaths of Uighur factory workers in another part
of China turned into a murderous rampage. The violence, which lasted three days,
claimed 197 lives, most of them Han Chinese beaten to death on the streets,
according to the government. The Han are the dominant ethnic group in China.

Uighur advocates overseas, however, insist that the official death toll
undercounts the number of Uighurs killed by the paramilitary police and during
revenge attacks by the Han that followed the initial rioting.

China has accused outsiders of instigating the unrest, heaping most of the blame
on Rebiya Kadeer, the 62-year-old leader of the World Uighur Congress, which
advocates self-determination for China's Uighurs. They say Ms. Kadeer, a
businesswoman who spent years in a Chinese jail before going into exile,
organized the killings from her home in Washington.

In recent weeks Ms. Kadeer has been on an aggressive campaign to convince the
world that her people are the primary victims of the rioting. During a visit to
Japan on Wednesday, she told reporters that 10,000 people had disappeared
overnight in the days following the unrest. ''Where did they go?'' she asked.
''Were they all killed or sent somewhere? The Chinese government should disclose
what happened to them.''

Her claims have infuriated China, with one official in Xinjiang describing her
remarks as ''completely fabricated.'' Ms. Kadeer says she cannot reveal the
source of her information because to do so would endanger those who provided it.

If the trials that followed the 2008 riots in Tibet are any guide, the court
hearings in Xinjiang will be swift. According to China Daily, the accused will
be appointed lawyers who have ''received special training,'' as have the judges
who will preside over the cases. Each trial will be heard by a panel of three or
seven judges, and the majority opinion will prevail.

Human rights groups, however, say they have little confidence the tribunals will
be fair. They expect the proceedings to be closed to the public, as are most
trials in China, and they note that the defendants will not have lawyers of
their own choosing.

''Without independent legal counsel, you don't have any clue as to what evidence
has been collected and through what means,'' said Renee Xia, international
director of Chinese Human Rights Defenders, which is based in Hong Kong. ''Were
they tortured or coerced to confess? Trials can be speedy, but it doesn't mean
they will be fair.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1385 words


International

CHINA SENTENCES 2

In Brawl Tied to Riot

China sentenced one man to death and another to life in prison for their roles
in a deadly toy factory brawl that was blamed for setting off riots in western
China's Xinjiang region last summer, according to an official news agency.  PAGE
A6

TURKISH AIR DRILLS CANCELED

A multinational air force exercise that was supposed to take place in Turkey has
been postponed indefinitely after the Turks asked Israel not to participate,
officials said, in a sign of the strained relations between the two allies.
PAGE A7

CLINTON SEEKS TO BOLSTER TIES

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to buck up a pair of American
allies, assuring the British they still had a special relationship with the
United States and telling the Irish that she would help them keep Northern
Ireland's peace process on track.  PAGE A8

RESCUE EFFORT IN PHILIPPINES

Rescuers and volunteers searched for bodies buried by dozens of landslides in
the Philippines, as the country struggled to recover from successive typhoons
that have killed more than 600 people. PAGE A6

POPE CANONIZES NEW SAINTS

Pope Benedict XVI canonized five new saints, including the 19th-century Belgian
priest known as Father Damien who worked with lepers in Hawaii.  PAGE A7

MEXICO ENDS POWER TO CITY

The Mexican government, in the midst of a fierce labor dispute with electrical
workers, said that it was disbanding a state-run company that supplies power to
Mexico City and the surrounding region after ordering hundreds of police
officers to occupy the company's installations. PAGE A4

National

DEMOCRATS AIM TO WIN

With Harsh Attacks

New Jersey Republicans complain that Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat, has turned
nasty to gain ground in his re-election bid. His chance at a comeback win has
turned into a template for Democratic survival in the 2010 midterm elections:
winning ugly. John Harwood, The Caucus.  PAGE A15

SHIFTING BELIEFS ON MURDERS

The killings of three young boys in 1993 in West Memphis, Ark., still has the
power to dominate the town's news. For years, outsiders have raised questions
about the guilt of the three misfit teenagers who were convicted of the murders.
But a steady dribble of new evidence has begun to seep into the town's
consciousness.  PAGE A11

CONCERN OVER MEDICAL COSTS

With Democrats increasingly confident that they can pass major health care
legislation this year, some of the nation's foremost health experts are warning
that the proposed bills do not do enough to quickly tamp down soaring medical
costs.  PAGE A13

New York

INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE STIRS UP NEW JERSEY RACE

Christopher J. Daggett's campaign for governor is causing concern in both major
parties. His plan to cut property taxes is getting attention. His poll numbers
are climbing. And he is telling audiences the unthinkable: A vote for him might
not be wasted. PAGE A16

Business

FOR AD-STARVED MAGAZINES, ONLY 'SPECIAL ISSUES' SATISFY

Print advertising is in miserable straits. It seems special issues are the one
thing attracting ad dollars. Some special issues are devoted entirely to one
subject, and some just have lines slapped on the cover saying ''special.'' PAGE
B1

TESTS STILL AWAIT LETTERMAN

Since David Letterman admitted he had sexual relationships with women who worked
for him, the court of public opinion has been kind. But will coverage of the
legal case erode his standing? And could his pratfall blunt his comedy? The
Media Equation by David Carr. PAGE B1

FOX AND THE WHITE HOUSE

Attacking the news media is a time-honored White House tactic, but to an unusual
degree, the Obama administration has narrowed its sights on one organization,
the Fox News Channel, calling it, in essence, part of the political opposition.
PAGE B1

CLIMBING AN EVEREST OF DATA

Technological advances are  overwhelming the world with information. So some of
the largest technology companies are trying to help university students think in
terms of what could be described as Internet scale. PAGE B1

A SIDEKICK GLITCH

T-Mobile and its partner on the Sidekick smart phone, Danger, said that a
technical glitch in their computer systems would probably result in some
customers' losing information. PAGE B3

VIRTUAL CHECKOUT COUNTER

In online stores, many shoppers fill their virtual shopping carts, then get lost
on their way to the checkout line. So e-commerce companies are trying a variety
of techniques to more often close the sale. PAGE B4

SONGS OF 'GLEE' ARE A HIT

An average of about 7.8 million people tune in each week to Fox's new musical
comedy about a high school glee club, ''Glee.'' But even more people may listen
to the show's soundtrack. PAGE B6

REPORTER BUYS A NEWSPAPER

M. E. Sprengelmeyer, 42, went from being the Washington correspondent for The
Rocky Mountain News to the owner, publisher, editor, primary writer and sometime
ad salesman, photographer and deliverer of the weekly Guadalupe County
Communicator, circulation about 2,000. PAGE B6

Time to Invest in K.K.R.? B2

Some People Seem Click-Happy B3

Analyst Questions Dubai on Debt B3

Movie Goes to Culture's Militants B6

Sports

A SERIES OF REDEMPTION

For Major League Baseball

There are any number of great World Series combinations. But Major League
Baseball needs a great World Series to push away the steroid-era cloud that has
hovered over the game for the past decade. A series between the Yankees and the
Dodgers could help recover a portion of trust, if not innocence, that was lost.
William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times.  PAGE D1

JETS' UNLIKELY LEADER

As a kicker, Jay Feeley is an unlikely locker room leader for the Jets. But he
is loquacious and opinionated, and he uses Twitter to hold forth on politics,
parenting and just about everything else.  PAGE D3

A TEETERING FRANCHISE

Six years after the Phoenix Coyotes relocated from Winnipeg, Manitoba, the
promise of stability has eluded them. The franchise, which was dragged through
bankruptcy court this summer, and its future beyond this season on the thinnest
of ice. PAGE D1

Wanjiru Wins Chicago Marathon D8

Arts

RESERVOIR OF JACKSON MUSIC

Is Prepared for Release

Sony has scheduled to send to radio stations the first song from what might be a
flood of unheard Michael Jackson material. It's called ''This Is It.''
Executives at Mr. Jackson's label say there are at least 100 songs that are
being readied for release. PAGE C1

DICKENS GETS A SKEWERING

Anyone ever tortured by a Charles Dickens novel will find lots to laugh at in
the parody ''Penny Penniworth,'' now being staged by Emerging Artists Theater at
Tada! in Manhattan. But the show also takes aim at every British actor who has
ever hammed it up in a BBC version of one of his books.  PAGE C5

WHITNEY'S NEW MUSEUM

Three years after reaching a tentative agreement with the city, the Whitney
Museum of American Art is forging ahead with plans to build a second museum at
the entrance to the High Line, the abandoned elevated railway line that has
recently been transformed into a public park. PAGE C1

A STORY WITH LATIN ROOTS

''Latin Music USA,'' a four-part series that PBS will begin broadcasting on
Monday, aims to make mainstream audiences more aware of Latin culture. PAGE C3

Game Review: ''Saw'' C5

Obituaries

RAYMOND A. BROWN, 94

A criminal and civil rights lawyer, he deployed a sometimes theatrical manner on
behalf of controversial clients like the Black Panthers, a Soviet spy, the boxer
Rubin ''Hurricane'' Carter and Dr. X, a New Jersey surgeon accused of murdering
patients with an overdose of a muscle relaxant. PAGE A19

LIONEL PINCUS, 78

He built Warburg Pincus into a leading Wall Street firm and played a role in
changing federal regulations on investing. PAGE A19

ROBERT M. MURDOCK, 67

An art historian and curator of 20th-century and contemporary art, his career
spanned more than three decades and several important American museums. PAGE A19

Op-ed

PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE 21

ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE 21

ONLINE

SLIDE SHOWA look at last week's science news, including a super typhoon, a
never-before-seen ring around Saturn and new findings about the ''early bird''
Archaeopteryx.

nytimes.com/science

Bridge C6

Crossword C6

Obituaries A19

Weather A22

Commercial   Real Estate Marketplace B7

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Officials Order Cities To Bolster Riot Police Forces

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 488 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 29


The Chinese authorities, facing constant protests by aggrieved workers and
farmers and a prospect of unending defiance by die-hard Falun Gong believers,
have ordered cities across the country to augment their anti-riot police.

Reflecting the leadership's obsession with "social stability," which has reached
a new pitch as China seeks to be awarded the 2008 Olympic Games, the Ministry of
Public Security has ordered "intensive efforts" to build up anti-riot squads and
said they are "expected to play key roles in handling group violence and
terrorism cases."

Large municipalities like Beijing and Shanghai must establish anti-riot units
with at least 300 members, other provincial capitals must have specialized units
of at least 200 and other cities must also develop forces in keeping with their
needs, according to the report by the New China News Agency.

The country has already created a one-million-member People's Armed Police, a
paramilitary force with training in crowd control, as the primary bulwark
against unruly demonstrations, and further growth in these forces is expected as
well.  Units of the armed police, sometimes using tear gas and occasionally
using live ammunition, are frequently used to disperse irate crowds of unpaid
workers or complaining farmers.  Large numbers of the troops are also stationed
in restive Tibet and in the western region of Xinjiang, to help fight a
separatist movement of Uighur Muslims.

China's leaders were privately embarrassed in 1989, when poorly prepared police
were overwhelmed by swelling pro-democracy demonstrations. The authorities
finally used army combat troops to clear the streets of Beijing, resulting in
hundreds of deaths from often-indiscriminate fire and bringing worldwide
condemnation.

Since then, officials have bolstered the numbers, training and equipment of the
People's Armed Police, in hopes that they can handle incidents with more skill
and less deadly force.

Ordinary police forces, which also carry weapons, were also supposed to improve
their crowd-control capacities after 1989, but the announcement this weekend
indicates that progress has been limited. "If the anti-riot police are not
competent and lack necessary training and equipment," an official from the
ministry of public security was quoted as saying, they will be "hardly capable
of maintaining social peace and stability."

One reason for building up riot units inside of urban police forces may be to
give the local police the ability to respond more quickly to a developing
disturbance, said Murray Scot Tanner, an expert on Chinese law enforcement at
Western Michigan University

Many outside experts believe that the People's Armed Police -- which were
expanded in part by incorporating unneeded units of the army -- have never
received enough money and specialized equipment to become a uniformly adept
riot-control force, able to handle extreme situations without bloodshed.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

PROTEST IN BEIJING

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers removing an anti-American poster near the U.S.
Embassy yesterday. Anti-American demonstrations are banned, and the man who put
up the poster was taken away. As anger over the loss of a Chinese pilot
continued, other protests were threatened in Haikou. Page A10. (Agence
France-Presse)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iceland Bars American Falun Gong Followers

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14


They had valid American passports. They had paid for their tickets. So the State
Department wants to know why dozens of Americans were turned away at airports
around the United States this week when they tried to fly to Iceland.

The department said today that it was asking Iceland's government for an
explanation of why it had ordered the state airline, Icelandair, to refuse
passage to American citizens who appeared on a list of followers of the Falun
Gong spiritual movement.

The government of Iceland has an explanation, though it seems a little
embarrassed to offer it.

Although Iceland takes pride in free-speech traditions that date from 930, the
government does not want protests to interfere with the visit this week of the
Chinese president, Jiang Zemin, Iceland's ambassador to Washington said. China
has branded Falun Gong an "evil cult." Mr. Jiang is scheduled to remain in
Iceland through Sunday.

The ambassador, Jon Baldvin Hannibalsson, said in a telephone interview that his
government worried that the nation's police force, which is unarmed and totals
only a few hundred people, "might easily be outnumbered" by Falun Gong
protesters. Iceland has no military.

He added that Falun Gong followers who managed to get to Iceland earlier this
week had "initially refused to comply with police directives on the organization
and location of the planned protests."

As a result, Icelandair has provided a list of reputed Falun Gong followers to
its check-in desks at airports in the four American cities it serves. Mr.
Hannibalsson said the list had been obtained through other European police
agencies, not through the Chinese government.

Falun Gong, a movement that blends exercise with meditation and the eclectic
views of its founder, Li Hongzhi, was wildly popular in China until it was
banned in 1999.

A spokesman for the movement in Washington, Joe Yin, said that nearly 100 Falun
Gong followers had been turned away by Icelandair, which provides the only
flights between this country and Iceland.

Mr. Yin said: "I don't have any negative feelings for Iceland. I just feel sad
that they bend to the pressure from the Chinese government."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 714 words


AFGHANISTAN

Scores of insurgents killed in operation

Afghan and international troops killed more than 130 insurgents in six days of
fighting in a once-stable area of northern Afghanistan that has experienced  a
recent spike in Taliban attacks, NATO said Monday. It was some of the heaviest
fighting in the north this year.

The operation took place last week in the Chahar Dara district of Kunduz
province against Taliban fighters who had been threatening NATO supply lines
from Russia.

An estimated 700 Afghan troops and 50 international soldiers, mostly Americans,
took part in the operation. A NATO statement said 130 Taliban fighters,
including eight commanders, were killed.

The statement did not say how NATO arrived at the death figure but said no
coalition troops or civilians were injured in the operation.

-- Associated Press

THE VATICAN

Plans will not affect church celibacy rules

The Vatican said on Monday that its plan to allow married Anglican priests to
convert to Catholicism does not signal any change to its age-old rule of
celibacy for the overwhelming majority of Catholic priests.

"The possibility envisioned by the Apostolic Constitution . . . does not signify
any change in the Church's discipline of clerical celibacy," the Vatican said in
Pope Benedict's document regulating Anglican converts.

The Vatican announced last month an initiative to make it easier for
conservative Anglicans who feel their church has become too liberal to convert
to Catholicism.

This stirred widespread speculation on what it could eventually mean for the
celibacy rule in the Roman Catholic Church and whether men who had left the
Catholic priesthood to marry and later became Anglicans could return to the
Catholic priesthood and remain married.

Benedict's document ruled that out and also said unmarried Anglican priests who
convert must remain celibate after their conversion.

-- Reuters

CHINA

Nine men executed for role in July riots

China has executed nine men, including eight from the Muslim Uighur minority,
for crimes committed during July riots that killed 200 people in the far western
Xinjiang region. The men are the first to be put to death for the country's
worst ethnic violence in decades.

The nine had been convicted of murder and other crimes committed during the
unrest. It began July 5 when Uighurs in the regional capital of Urumqi attacked
Han people,  who make up China's dominant ethnicity,  only to face retaliatory
attacks two days later.

Four months after the riots, Xinjiang remains smothered in heavy security, with
Internet access cut and most international calls blocked.

-- Associated Press

LEBANON

New cabinet includes Hezbollah and allies

Lebanon's prime minister formed a cabinet Monday that includes the militant
group Hezbollah and its allies, ending a political deadlock that left the deeply
divided nation without a government for months and threatened to ignite
violence.

Saad Hariri unveiled the 30-member cabinet after more than four months of tough
bargaining with his rivals in the Hezbollah-led political coalition over who
would get which portfolios.

Hariri's Western-backed bloc narrowly defeated the Hezbollah-led group in June's
parliamentary elections, enabling it to retain a slim majority in the 128-member
legislature. But Hariri's need to include his powerful rivals in a national
unity government set the stage for the months of wrangling.

-- Associated Press

Suu Kyi offers rare praise for Burma rulers: Burma's detained opposition leader,
Aung San Suu Kyi, expressed hope that U.S. engagement with the county's military
rulers could spur democratic reforms, her lawyer said. In rare praise for the
regime that has kept her in detention for 14 of the last 20 years, Suu Kyi
thanked the junta for recently allowing her to see Kurt M. Campbell, the top
U.S. official for East Asia.

Pakistan suicide bomber kills three:  A suicide bomber in a rickshaw detonated
his explosives near a group of policemen in the northwestern city of Peshawar,
killing three people and wounding five, police said. The attack was the latest
in a string of strikes that have killed more than 300 people in the past six
weeks. The bloodshed appears aimed at distracting the government from its
offensive against the Taliban in South Waziristan.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aljazeera.net

                            October 12, 2009 Monday

Death sentences over China riots

LENGTH: 278 words



A court in China has sentenced six people to death over July's ethnic riots in
the far western region of Xinjiang.


Chinese state media said the six, all convicted on Monday, had been found guilty
of murder and other crimes.
A seventh person was sentenced to life in jail, the reports said.
The convictions are the first to be reported since the July 5 riots which left
nearly 200 people dead.
During the riots  andndash; the worst ethnic violence seen in China in decades -
members of Xinjiang's native Muslim Uighur community attacked ethnic Han Chinese
residents in the regional capital, Urumqi.
The clashes broke out following street protests against attacks on Uighur
workers at a toy factory in southern China in June that left two Uighurs dead.
The sentences come three days after a court in southern China sentenced a man to
death for his role in the toy factory brawl.
China's government has blamed the riots on overseas Uigur groups which it says
are terrorists agitating for greater Uighur rights in their Xinjiang homeland.
According to the government, most of the 197 killed in the Urumqi riots were Han
Chinese.
The ethnicity of those convicted on Monday was not reported, although all
appeared to have Uighur names.
Chinese state television showed tight security and deserted streets outside the
Urumqi court on Monday as the convictions were read out.
Urumqi has been under extremely heavy security since the July riots, with armed
police manning road blocks and patrolling the streets.
According to earlier reports police have detained more than 700 people suspected
of crimes related to the riots, although how many will face prosecution remains
unclear.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                  Copyright 2009 Aljazeera.net - Aljazeera.net
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Journey of disharmony

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 666 words


THE BIG PICTURE

THE Olympic torch relay bore the brunt of public anger this week over China's
repression in Tibet, prompting speculation that organisers might curtail the
rest of program.

After witnessing its stormy progress through London, Paris and San Francisco,
Britain's The Guardian quipped that ``prising the torch from the phalanx of the
Chinese robocops protecting it has become the latest Olympic sport''.

French daily L'Equipe added that the only thing running faster than the
torchbearers was the international outcry. Spanish daily SUR wrote that China
had ``committed an enormous error in underestimating the conjunction of
democratic societies and the fundamental objectives of the Olympic charter --
`to promote a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of human dignity'
-- and in thinking that the success of this event would be guaranteed by
spectacular financial investments''. The repression in Tibet ``woke world public
opinion up and unleashed a wave of sympathy for the Tibetan population,
reminding us that China has too many holes in its democracy to spare the
sporting competition''.

Libby Purves agreed in Britain's The Times, insisting that ``joining in China's
triumphalism is not necessary. Not right now, not with the suffering and
injustice rife in Tibet. This torch procession is nakedly political and should
not have been encouraged by our leaders.''

Germany's Die Welt said the torch relay's Nazi origins made its symbolism
susceptible to propaganda. ``China's dictatorship can't be compared with
Hitler's regime. But one has to welcome the fact that demonstrators are now
preventing the communists in Beijing from using the torch relay to present
themselves like Leni Riefenstahl did, with terrifying mastery, in her propaganda
film Olympia. The torch relay was intended as a triumph but has become a
gauntlet for the Chinese and, given their stubborn attitude in the Tibetan
conflict, they only have themselves to blame.''

Finland's Helsingin Sanomat argued that the situation could have been quite
different ``if after the Tibet riots China had been even a little critical when
assessing its own national policies and accepted the offer of dialogue with the
Dalai Lama. Now, that too would no longer probably be sufficient to calm the
fervour surrounding the relay.''

``The flame no longer stands for fairness and peace,'' complained Germany's Die
Tageszeitung. ``It now also symbolises a repressive regime (that) battles
ambitions for autonomy like in Tibet, (that) hurts human rights and suppresses
dissenting opinions.''

Seweryn Blumsztajn, in Poland's Gazeta Wyborcza, hailed the victory of people
power. ``Now we, the citizens of the world, have extinguished the flame of the
Chinese superpower. In day-to-day life we are powerless against catastrophic
world politics. And then suddenly there comes a moment when our internet appeal
or a poster hung in a window becomes part of the world power of decent people: a
new global power.''

Adrian Hamilton, however, argued in Britain's The Independent that the West had
consistently misunderstood China's attitude. ``It is all very well to express
outrage at Chinese oppression of political voices in Tibet as if we are talking
about monks in Burma or Palestinians in the West Bank. But Tibet is not Burma,
an independent country suffering the oppression of its own rulers, (or)
Palestine, a land occupied but not claimed (or at least not all of it) by its
conquerors ... The Chinese regard their claim on Tibet as absolute and they
simply will not compromise. And, frankly, the West, which went shamefully along
with the invasion a half-century ago with only a squeak of protest, is in no
mood for total confrontation.''

New Zealand's Timaru Herald advised China to scrap the rest of the relay. ``It
will be an embarrassing climb-down for the Chinese but less so than a
continuation of the images already seen from London, Paris and San Francisco.
Neither the Olympics nor China need a `journey of disharmony'.''

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday
                          2 - All-round First Edition

China's iron fist cracks down to subdue Tibetan rebels

BYLINE: Cameron Stewart

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words


China has admitted the first Australian journalists to Tibet since the March
uprising. Associate editor Cameron Stewart reports from Lhasa that Beijing is
still tightening security

IN the ancient back alleys of Tibet's capital, Lhasa, a grim military operation
has played out this week, hidden from the eyes of the world. As night falls,
hundreds of Chinese troops fan out across this rebellious city, armed with riot
shields and assault rifles.

They set up sentry posts on street corners and dispatch patrols in groups of six
soldiers, three with shields and three with guns.

These patrols spend the night walking down the lanes of Lhasa's Tibetan quarter,
looking for any signof dissent. They glare at me asthey pass, angry at the
presence of a foreigner.

When the sun rises, the soldiers do not melt away, but are replaced by a new
rotation of troops. The military stranglehold on Lhasa by day is maintained with
one chilling addition -- snipers are installed on rooftops around the city's
most holy site, the Jokhang Temple, ready to train their guns on the hundreds of
Tibetan pilgrims praying in Barkhor Square below.

Only months after the Beijing Olympics, there is no post-Games euphoria in
Tibet.

Hopes of greater autonomy and freedom have been stifled by Beijing, which --
stung by bloody anti-Chinese riots in March and by the indignity of the
subsequent Olympic torch relay protests -- has come down on Tibetans with an
iron fist.

During four days in Lhasa this week -- the first visit to Tibet by an Australian
journalist since the March riots that left up to 200 people dead -- I witnessed
a city creaking under the weight of the Chinese military.

In meeting local Chinese government officials, it was apparent that Beijing has
lost patience with those Tibetans who oppose its rule and has chosen the path of
zero tolerance.

The heavy military presence betrays China's unspoken fear that it is losing,
rather than winning, the hearts and minds of local Tibetans, who accuse Beijing
of subjugating their culture and religion to preserve national unity.

In an interview with The Weekend Australian, the vice-governor of the Tibet
Autonomous Region, Bai Ma Cai Wang, reveals that China has recently boosted its
security presence in Lhasa above and beyond the crackdown that followed the
March riots. This is China's first public acknowledgment that it has beefed up
its security forces in Tibet.

``In order for Tibet's stability and for people's safety and for people's desire
for security and order, the Government has moderately adjusted the presence of
the police force on the street,'' he says.

Bai Ma says the Government fears a repeat of the March riots, which he says were
the work of the exiled Dalai Lama and his supporters. ``After the March 14
riots, the Dalai Lama and his followers have speeded up their separatist
activities.''

Despite being the spiritual leader of the Tibetan Buddhist population,

Continued -- Page 4

From Page 1

the Dalai Lama has been airbrushed from view in Lhasa by the Chinese, who accuse
him of being a political activist for an independent Tibet. There are no
pictures or portraits of him in public areas, and Tibetans are reluctant to
praise him in public, fearing retribution.

``The image of the Dalai Lama in Tibetan people's minds has already gone away,''
says Bai Ma. But the long lines of Tibetans waiting to pay homage to the tombs
of former Dalai Lamas in Lhasa's imposing Potala Palace, and the thousands of
passionate Buddhist pilgrims who prostrate themselves each day outside the
Jokhang Temple suggest otherwise.

I visited Tibet with News Limited journalist Steve Lewis and federal Liberal MP
Michael Johnson, vice-chairman of the Australia-China Parliamentary Friendship
group, at the invitation of the Chinese Government, which urged us: ``Tell
Australians what you have heard and seen about the truth in Tibet.''

This gave us access to high-level Communist Party officials, parliamentarians
and local governors in Lhasa, but the official program included no meetings with
senior Buddhists and no one whose views strayed from the official line.

When I asked for permission to visit Drapchi prison, where at least 202 people
involved in the March riots remain incarcerated, I was refused.

It was only when we slipped away from our hotel at night and found some of the
few Tibetans who spoke English that we heard alternative views. Even then they
were reluctant to talk, fearing they might be seen or overheard by the
authorities. One monk told us there were ``more and more Chinese, more and more
soldiers'' in Lhasa in recent weeks.

But no one will speak out, he says, because of fears they will be reported to
the police. ``Detectives, they listen to what you say ... sometimes (Barkhor)
square is full of detectives listening in.''

He says Tibetans ``feel very bad'' about the situation but are powerless to stop
it. Another monk claimed that the Chinese had installed listening devices in the
main tourist sites where Westerners might interact with Tibetans, and said no
one felt safe talking to foreigners about the political situation in Tibet.

On Monday, we witnessed a group of monks being placed in a police van and taken
away but attempts to get an explanation were unsuccessful.

The Chinese authorities have gone to extraordinary lengths to monitor local
Tibetans, installing CCTV cameras on buildings and deploying plainclothes police
as well as the more overt scrutiny of the large numbers of uniformed police and
soldiers.

In interviews with local Chinese officials, their frustration with the situation
was palpable. They cannot understand why years of economic growth in Tibet have
failed to quell Tibetan demands for greater autonomy or independence from China.
There is little understanding or acceptance that Tibetans may have different
priorities.

In meetings this week, Chinese officials quoted statistics showing vast
improvements in the health, housing, wellbeing and life expectancy of the
Tibetans. The Chinese Government has poured billions of dollars into Tibet's
economy, with state subsidies accounting for 75 per cent of the gross domestic
product.

The results can be seen in and around Lhasa, with wide new roads, upmarket
fashion stores and whitegoods stores boasting widescreen televisions. There is a
thriving middle class of fashionably dressed locals with mobile phones glued to
their ears and driving the latest cars.

The problem is that almost all of this middle class in Lhasa are Han Chinese
immigrants, rather than local Tibetans who are primarily herdsmen and farmers
and lack the literacy skills and education to seize the opportunities created by
the Chinese investment. ``While a minority of Tibetans have been rewarded with
state jobs, the majority of Tibetans, who are poorly equipped to access new
economic opportunities, have been marginalised,'' says Ben Hillman, a Tibet
expert from the Australian National University's China Institute.

So the frustration of local Tibetans goes beyond the eroding of their culture
and traditions under Chinese rule -- it is also an economic development issue
similar to many around the world where an indigenous people are marginalised by
more commercially successful immigrants.

There are signs Chinese officials realise their mistake in focusing too heavily
on infrastructure rather than on the Tibetans themselves.

``The education program in Tibet is still not satisfactory,'' says Wang Jinjun,
vice-director-general of the State Council Information Office. ``The policy now
is to better tackle the issue of herdsmen and farmers.''

The economic plight of Tibetans has not been helped by the March riots, which
all but killed tourism. Shops and cafes are empty and there is barely a foreign
tourist to be seen.

Tibetans have only themselves to blame for this, because so many of them
supported the riots, in which 1317 people were arrested, says Wang De Wen, of
the Tibet People's Congress.

The riots ``were organised by Tibet separatists headed by the Dalai Lama and his
followers, who are not willing to see the great leap forward in the development
of Tibet, so they instigated violent incidents which involved the smashing, the
grabbing, the looting and the setting fire to shops,'' says Wang. ``This violent
incident has wreaked havoc on the economic situation and the life of the Tibet
people and has cost 320 million yuan ($70 million) since March.''

The deputy secretary-general of the Tibet People's Congress, Tonga, was
reluctant to talk about those who were detained after the riots, but claimed the
majority of Tibetans involved now regretted their actions.

``After our re-education program most of them will regret what they have done,''
Tonga says. When pressed further on what this means he adds: ``A relevant
government official briefed them on what was right and what was wrong.''

Tibetan officials we spoke to denied all claims that the religious freedom of
Tibetans was being curtailed. The head of religious affairs of the Tibet
Autonomous Region, Kalsang, denied widely reported views in the West that monks
were required to denounce the Dalai Lama as part of ``patriotic education''
programs in monasteries.

He was partly contradicted several days later by Wang Jinjun who conceded that
monks in Tibet were being given ``legal information programs'' in which they
were told not to mix religion with politics.

The most striking aspect of the meetings with Chinese officials was the extent
of their hostility towards the Dalai Lama who, along with the the self-styled
Tibetan government in exile in India, is blamed for fomenting the uprising and
for turning the Tibet issue into a cause celebre in the West.

The Chinese dismiss the Dalai Lama's repeated assertion that he seeks only
greater autonomy for Tibet, rather than independence.

When I ask whether China's problems in Tibet might be eased by granting greater
autonomy while still retaining national control of the region, Wang Jinjun is
dismissive, saying it would return Tibet to its feudal origins. ``Tibet will not
be reduced to a backwater society which features theocratic rule,'' he says.

The human dimension of this intractable problem can best be seen by taking a
walk through Lhasa, where on my last day I saw a group of Tibetan women, with
their babies strapped to their backs, talking and laughing under the watchful
eye of a rooftop sniper.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             April 13, 2009 Monday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

China moves to modernise

BYLINE: Michael Sainsbury

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1102 words


Healthcare, currency measures and foreign aid figure in Beijing's program

CHINA has seriously cranked up the tempo in its efforts build a more modern
economy with three landmark announcements.

They are a long-awaited blueprint to create a national health services system;
the first phase of giving its currency, the renminbi, a seat at the global
exchange table; and plans to splurge $10billion in the Asian region to help its
neighbours.

Health has been one of the biggest and most tragic casualties of China's
economic expansion. The country likes to boast that when the Communist Party
seized power in 1949 it provided basic healthcare for 90 per cent of the
population -- urban residents were covered by medical reimbursements from work
units, and rural workers and peasants had ``barefoot doctors'' -- often
pre-medical students.

Thirty years into Deng Xiaoping's revolution, which collapsed rural communes and
sold-off thousands of state run-companies, that number has shrunk dramatically
to a maximum of about 30 per cent but no one really knows.

The new plan has promised to have basic healthcare services for 90 per cent of
the population and $US814billion ($1.6trillion) has already been committed --
although much more is needed.

When China opened up its markets it made the mistake of tilting its health
system too far towards profit. Though hospitals were not privatised, they became
highly profit-orientated and while the Government still has tight control on the
costs of hospital services, especially doctors' payments, there has been
inadequate investment for hospitals and the public health system.

More problematic, endemic corruption in China has infected its hospitals, which
have colluded with drug factories to make profits mainly from medicines. Medical
costs have become unbearable.

Chinese families save furiously in case of major health issues and many people
cannot afford the insurance that is on offer. China needs to address its failure
in healthcare to help underpin a recast social safety net that will begin to
start addressing the imbalance between savings and consumption in China. But
there is also a political imperative driving the health plan. China's populace
is beginning to demand better services from its Government and health is perhaps
the main issue -- the very tiny green shoots of civil society are emerging.

China was robbed of the ceremonial centrepiece of its visit to the ASEAN meeting
in Thailand this weekend that was cancelled because of riots.

China's Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi said that China would establish a
$10billion China-ASEAN investment co-operation fund to promote infrastructure
that connects it to ASEAN nations. It will also offer a credit of $15billion to
ASEAN countries, including preferential loans of $1.7billion for co-operation
projects. China will also offer 270million yuan ($55million) in aid to Cambodia,
Laos and Myanmar to help those impoverished countries combat the global
financial crisis, and will inject $50million into the China-ASEAN Co-operation
Fund. China will to provide 300,000 tonnes of rice for the East Asian Emergency
Rice Reserve to ``strengthen food security in the region''.

China will also provide training for 1000 agricultural technicians for the ASEAN
nations in the coming three years; has offered an extra 2000 Chinese Government
scholarships and 200 Master's scholarships for public administration and will
donate $900,000 to the ASEAN Plus Three Co-Operation Fund.

China has already spent big on building roads from its southern border into
Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam, to ease trade problems and is having a growing
influence in those countries.

The ASEAN plan is the latest tack in China's continuing use of cash-based soft
power after it emerged as the de facto leader of the developing world at the
recent G20 summit.

Last Wednesday, China's State Council announced a pilot program of using
renminbi for cross-border trade settlement in five cities including Shanghai and
four cities in the country's major trade province of Guangdong.

The Government is keen avoid exchange-rate risks in the export sector, and wants
to improve the trade environment and steady growth in international trade -- a
move underscored by its intention to double its global export market in coming
years to take advantage of weak western rivals as well as Japan. The Government
said there was increasing demand for renminbi settlements.

China's central bank has already inked six bilateral currency swap agreements
with other central banks, for a total 650billion yuan.

The renminbi trail is also hoped to have a flow-on effect to the financial
centres of Shanghai and Hong Kong.

Shanghai last month received approval from China's State Council to build an
international financial and shipping centre by 2020, part of which is the
expansion of its financial strip along the colonial riverside, high on the
Shanghai Government's agenda.

In Hong Kong, the financial markets disaster has pushed the area into recession.
Hong Kong continues to get fierce competition for business headquarters and
trading from Singapore and Shanghai. Beijing, too -- home to most of the major
state-owned enterprise and the policy nerve centre of China -- is also emerging
as a major financial hub.

``An international financial centre cannot be designated; it can only emerge and
grow through market competition,'' Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said.

``The issue at hand now is not whether one city or the other is a financial
centre, but about whether one is able to put its financial system back on to a
stable, healthy and sustainable development track.''

The Premier cited Hong Kong's long-held advantages of a transparent
western-based established legal system and a history of financial-market
operations.

Wen said Hong Kong's position would be enhanced by a pilot program to allow
settlement of cross-border trade in yuan, rather than foreign currencies,

Hong Kong Undersecretary for Financial Services and the Treasury Julia Leung
Fung-yee, said cross-border renminbi trade settlement would enable Hong Kong
banks to boost business by expanding their renminbi services from individual
clients to enterprises.

But as human rights lawyer and UN judge Geoffrey Robertson noted on a trip to
China last week, that with its new position at the power grouping of the world's
most important economies and growing financial influence comes the
responsibility of becoming a better global citizen.

Robertson said China needed to try to help, rather than hinder, the appalling
situations in Sudan and Zimbabwe, both countries that receive billions in
Chinese economic support.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Riots as China lead scare hits 2000 children

BYLINE: Jane Macartney

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 289 words


Beijing

MORE than 2000 children have been found to have lead poisoning because Chinese
factories greedy for profit have spewed out pollutants without carrying out even
the most minor environmental monitoring.

Officials announced yesterday that 1354 children under 14, who had been living
and going to school for more than two years within a few hundred metres of a
manganese smelter, had excess lead in their blood. Local officials said the
number could rise when further tests were carried out.

About 1000 people enraged to see their children falling sick while the
government took no action clashed with police near the Wugang manganese smelting
plant in Hunan province on August 8, blocking a road and overturning a police
car.

One resident, Mr Xiao, who noticed his 10-month-old daughter was unable to keep
down her milk, said: ``I saw the reports on television about the incident in
Fengxiang in Shaanxi and I realised that my daughter too was losing her hair.''

Tests showed her blood contained 362 micrograms of lead per litre of blood while
her sister's blood contained 232 micrograms. The maximum safety level in China
is 100 micrograms.

Authorities ordered the smelter be shut last week and detained two of its
executives on suspicion of causing severe environmental pollution.

Since it began production in May last year, the smelter has not submitted to any
environmental safety tests even though schools and a nursery are within 500m of
the plant.

The government is worried about the environmental and health costs of pollution
and rising public anger.

Environmental Protection Minister Zhou Shengxian noted an increase in the number
of ``mass incidents'', the official term for riots or protests, caused by
environmental problems.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

World In Brief

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 692 words


Taliban: Mullah Omar still alive AFGHANISTAN: The Taliban today denied that
their leader Mullah Mohammed Omar had been killed, saying that an internet
message announcing his death was a fake posted by hackers. Spokesman Zabiullah
Mujahid said: "He is overseeing operations in the country. Outsiders must have
hacked into Taliban phones and the website." Elsewhere in the country a suicide
bomber struck in Mazar-i-Sharif, killing four civilians, including one child.

And three Afghan police officers and two militants were killed in a gunfight in
Kandahar. Rebels attempt to retake oil town LIBYA: Fierce fighting engulfed the
oil town of Brega today as rebels tried once again to take the town. Their
commanders said at least eight of their soldiers had been killed and dozens
wounded. The government said nothing of its own casualties. Libyan leader
Muammar Gadaffi said yesterday that Libya was fighting "for our way of life" and
would not give in, appearing to rebuff French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe who
hinted that Col Gadaffi could be allowed to stay in Libya if he gave up power.
Another minister quits over blast CYPRUS: Foreign Minister Markos Kyprianou
became the second cabinet member to resign on Tuesday over an explosion at a
naval base that killed 13 people on July 11. The defence minister has already
resigned over the blast, which happened when dozens of gunpowder-filled
containers blew up, knocking out an adjacent power station which provided over
half the island's electricity. The government had reportedly been warned about
the containers. Rolling blackouts continued yesterday. Greece and Israel have
offered to send generators. Africa crisis now officially a famine SOMALIA: The
UN officially described the drought and war-fuelled crisis in the country as a
famine today. The term is used when at least one in three children are
malnourished or deaths from hunger reach two adults or four children per 10,000
per day. Oxfam said the region hadn't been this dry for 60 years and that milder
conditions in 1992 had still led to hundreds of thousands of deaths in Somalia.
UN official Mark Bowden said $300 million (£186m) would be needed in the next
two months to deal with the crisis. 14 people killed during Hotan riot CHINA:
Police confirmed today that 14 rioters had been shot dead on Monday when they
stormed a police station in Hotan in the Xinjiang autonomous region. The rioters
had attacked the station, set it alight and killed four people - a security
guard, a police officer, a woman and a teenage girl - the Xinhua news agency
said. Local authorities described the attackers as Islamist separatists who had
chanted "Allah is the only God." The Germany-based World Uighur Congress claimed
that fighting had begun after a demonstration protesting at a recent police
crackdown on separatists. FBI makes arrests over PayPal hack UNITED STATES: The
FBI arrested 14 people on Tuesday night for allegedly mounting a cyber attack on
the PayPal website in revenge for it blocking payments to WikiLeaks. Four more
were arrested for "cyber crimes" in the Netherlands and one person in Britain.
The attacks on PayPal were launched by a group called Anonymous, which has also
claimed responsibility for disrupting the Visa and MasterCard websites after
they stopped processing donations to WikiLeaks. Ambassadors told to stay in
capital SYRIA: The government has warned the US and French ambassadors not to
leave Damascus without permission. Earlier this month the two ambassadors
travelled to Hama, seen as a stronghold of opposition to President Bashar Assad.
The government said another trip might result in a ban on all diplomats leaving
the capital. It claimed that meeting rebels was interfering in Syria's internal
affairs. Horse ban follows virus outbreak MALAYSIA: Horse imports from Australia
have been halted after an outbreak of Hendra virus. The virus, which causes
flu-like symptoms but can lead to pneumonia, encephalitis and death, originates
in fruit bats but often infects horses. It can also spread to humans. Veterinary
department deputy director Ibrahim Che'Embourg said that the ban was just a
precaution.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

World in brief

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 452 words


Judges toss claims against Marcos US: New York courts dismissed a claim by
victims of Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos for more than $35 million (£22m)
from a US brokerage account. The Court of Appeals said the courts "should not
intercede" in a case within the province of Philippine national sovereignty.
Marcos was sued in US federal court on behalf of some 10,000 victims of arrest,
torture and execution.

Court releases eviction women Cambodia: An appeals court ordered the release of
13 women today who had been jailed for protesting about being evicted from their
homes without proper compensation. Judge Seng Sivutha upheld last month's
convictions for aggravated rebellion and illegal occupation. But he cut their
sentences to time served as the woman have children to look after and little
knowledge of the law. They lived in Phnom Penh's Boueng Kak lake area, now
handed to a Chinese firm for commercial development, and were promised new land
titles that haven't materialised. Ford to shut Santa Rosa car factory
Philippines: Ford said today that it will close its 13-year-old at the end of
the year. Its Philippines group president Randy Krieger said the car firm
"couldn't make a strong enough case for future manufacturing." The plant has
exported over 80,000 vehicles since 2002 and about 250 workers will be affected.
Workers strike to prevent sell-off Puerto Rico: Dozens of Ports Authority
workers are striking over a plan to privatise the management of the island's
international airport. Union president Astrid Ortiz accuses the agency of
intentionally providing poor service and wasting money on contracts. Puerto Rico
is after a public-private partnership to oversee the airport. Dozens injured in
Zhongshan riot China: Police in southern China have quelled a riot that broke
out following a dispute between a migrant worker and a local resident in the
Guangdong province city of Zhongshan. More than two dozen people were reportedly
hurt. Elsewhere, villagers attacked police and local officials over plans to
sell their farmland to developers with little compensation. Coastguards bust
second drug sub Ecuador: Marines have seized a semi-submersible being built on a
small island in the Gulf of Guayaquil capable of carrying 10 to 15 tons of
cocaine. The coastguard said that the vessel was 50 feet long and 13 feet wide.
The craft was the second semi-submersible found this year. Ex-PM cleared over
London account Trinidad: Former prime minister Basdeo Panday has been cleared of
charges that he failed to declare the existence of a London bank account that
held nearly £130,000 allegedly given by a local businessman as scholarship
assistance for two of Mr Panday's four daughters.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             April 13, 2008, Sunday

OTHER VIEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P2C

LENGTH: 643 words


NATO invitations up in air

Even before the NATO summit it was obvious that Ukraine and Georgia were
unlikely to receive any signal that they would be accepted to the bloc.
Arguments by the United States and some of its East European partners on the
strategic importance of these two countries were met with stronger
counterarguments why they cannot be allowed to join.

Many European countries have serious doubts over Kiev's and Tbilisi's readiness
to join NATO. ... On the other hand, NATO is often referred to as an alliance
dominated by one state - the U.S. This fact has probably fueled hopes in Ukraine
and Georgia that Washington would be able to make enlargement skeptics change
their minds.

This simply did not happen. It is hard to say if the efforts by American leaders
alone were enough to document the promise to Kiev and Tbilisi that they may be
able to join NATO in the future. But now Ukraine and Georgia know for sure that
the fate on this question is completely in their own hands.

- Lietuvos Rytas, Vilnius, Lithuania

Diana inquest was necessary

Unlike many newspapers, The Independent always believed it was right that a
public inquest be held into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales. Now that the
inquiry has found that Diana was unlawfully killed due to the "gross negligence"
of her driver, Henri Paul, that evening in Paris 11 years ago, we continue to
believe that it was right that the inquest was established. It is vital not only
that justice is done, but that it is seen to be done. It is true that there was
no compelling evidence that Diana was murdered, as Mohamed Al Fayed whose son
Dodi perished in the same crash has long asserted.

But it is equally true that Diana had written, only months before her fatal
journey, that she feared some people were plotting her assassination and that it
would involve "brake failure." That is hardly typical behaviour of those who die
in car accidents.

And whatever one's personal belief about that crash in the Pont d'Alma tunnel,
the plain fact is that a considerable number of people in Britain believed,
before this inquest began last year, that what happened to Diana was not an
accident. Indeed, some will still have questions about how exactly Diana died
and not just Mr Al Fayed. That is their prerogative.

But for the rest of us, it is to be hoped that this verdict will, at the very
least, bring an end to the unedifying soap opera that has accompanied this
inquest.

After six months, 250 sworn testimonies, and considerable public expense, it is
difficult not to breathe a sigh of relief that it is finally over.

- The Independent, London

Olympics fail to shed politics

The Olympic torch relay is not meant to be a political weapon for the host
country of the Olympics or its critics. However, separating sports from
politics, in line with Olympic ideals, is seldom successful and on the part of
the Beijing games it has utterly failed.

The nationalistic riots in Tibet and China's clumsy way of relating the events
have inflamed the situation to such an extent that protests against the torch's
trip are certain to continue as it travels through 20 countries to China.

The International Olympic Committee has good reason to meet this week to
evaluate the desirability of continuing the torch relay. But it won't be solved
by simply directing it only to those countries where demonstrations would not be
allowed.

From China's viewpoint, it seems that it wants to both protect its great
national Olympic project and reject the nationalism of its minorities. The
situation could be quite different if after the Tibet riots China had been even
a little critical when assessing its own national policies and accepted the
offer of dialogue with the Dalai Lama. Now, that too would no longer probably be
sufficient to calm the fervor surrounding the torch relay.

- Helsingin Sanomat, Helsinki, Finland

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers


                              102 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

'Doctored clips of Guj riots, China quake used to instigate protesters'

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 111  words


Home minister RR Patil on Monday said doctored video clips were being circulated
on the Internet and mobile phones to instigate protesters at Azad Maidan on
Saturday. Visuals of the 2002 post-Godhra riots in Gujarat and the earthquake in
China were used in the doctored clips which were circulated before the protest,
Patil told journalists at the Sahyadri guest house on Monday.

The home minister said the clips got 60 lakh hits on social networking sites. He
said the police were aware of the clips and had requested the state government
to block the visuals. Patil said Saturday's violence which left 45 policemen
injured was far serious than it appeared to the eye.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 178 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             April 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                National Edition

Dalai Lama abusing his religion: China; Beijing claims it has proof leader
behind riots

BYLINE: John Ruwitch, Reuters

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 438  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING - China stepped up attacks on the Dalai Lama yesterday, blasting him for
abusing religion, stirring protests in Tibet and preparing for independence as
the Olympic flame arrived in Beijing under tight security.

The scorn aimed at Tibet's exiled spiritual leader appears to indicate Beijing
is digging in its heels in the face of mounting pressure from abroad to engage
in dialogue with the Nobel Peace Prize winner. That pressure follows more than
two weeks of protests and suppression in Tibet-an-populated parts of China.

A report by Xinhua, China's official news agency, said the government had
evidence the Dalai Lama and his supporters had planned the rash of anti-Chinese
unrest across the Himalayan region and nearby areas this month.

The Dalai Lama's office rejected the claim and called on China to allow in
international investigators.

"The self-proclaimed spiritual leader has obviously forgotten his identity,
abused his religion and played too much politics," Xinhua said, adding he was
building a "pro-independence infrastructure."

A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman denied what it said was a statement from
the Dalai Lama that soldiers posing as monks had instigated the Lhasa violence.

But the Dalai Lama's office also denied this.

"What we can confirm at this point is we've received reports of Chinese dressing
up as monks -- not instigating [the violence], but assisting in the security
clampdown," Tenzin Taklha, a spokesman for the Dalai Lama, said by telephone
from Dharamsala, northern India.

Several foreign leaders, including George W. Bush, the U.S. President, have
urged Beijing to talk to the Dalai Lama's envoys to resolve the issue. China has
said it would only do so if he rejected independence for Tibet and Taiwan and
used his influence to end the ongoing unrest.

Meanwhile, protests continued elsewhere.

In Nepal's capital Kathmandu, police beat pro-Tibet protesters with sticks and
detained more than 280 people for demonstrating against China, police and
officials said, hinting at a bigger crackdown on protesters.

Hundreds of Tibetans split up into small groups and tried to storm a Chinese
consular office from different directions.

In the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, about 70 people, including Buddhist monks,
rallied in front of the Chinese embassy.

Days of marches led by monks in Tibet's capital, Lhasa, turned into a citywide
riot on March 14. The government said the violence killed 18 civilians and at
least one police officer.

After the Lhasa riot, China ordered tens of thousands of troops into Tibet and
Tibetan-populated areas of neighbouring provinces to quash further protests.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Black & White Photo: Adrees Latif, Reuters; A protester is detained at a rally
in Kathmandu yesterday. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 178 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday
                                National Edition

'Grandpa Wen' fears China's Web army; 200 million Chinese can post their
thoughts

BYLINE: Malcolm Moore, The Daily Telegraph

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 754  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


SHANGHAI . Whenever China suffers a major disaster, a visit from Wen Jiabao, or
"Grandpa Wen," is usually enough to comfort the victims and reassure the country
its Communist leaders are looking after them.

So days after two Chinese bullet trains collided in the south of the country,
killing at least 39 and injuring more than 200, the Chinese Premier duly arrived
at the scene.

Standing on a patch of gravel that had been cleared of the wreckage, he promised
to "get to the bottom" of what had gone wrong and apologized for not arriving
sooner, blaming an 11-day illness and doctor's orders to rest.

In the past, that might have been the end of it. But Mr. Wen only succeeded in
ratcheting public anger up a notch.

Within hours, photographs of him in seemingly perfect health at various
functions during the past week had been posted on the Internet and he was
accused of being a liar. His tears at the sites of various disasters over the
years had already earned him the mocking title of China's "Best Actor."

What has changed over the past year is partly the growing inability of China's
leaders to control free speech, both in the traditional media and over the
Internet.

Journalists have openly defied instructions from China's censors not to report
on the train crash and even CCTV, the state broadcaster, has turned on the
government.

"Can we live in apartments that do not fall down? Can the roads we drive on in
our cities not collapse? Can we travel in safe trains? And if there is a major
accident, can we not be in a hurry to bury the trains? Can we afford the people
a basic sense of security? China, please slow down. If you are too fast, you may
leave the souls of your people behind," said Qiu Qiming, a CCTV news anchor,
live on air.

The emergence of Sina Weibo, a clone of the Western website Twitter that allows
200 million Chinese to post their thoughts in real time, has resulted in a
deluge of information the government is finding difficult to control.

"Thousands of web users were posting real eyewitness accounts, photos, videos.
Traditional media, including solid professional outfits as well as the Party
media, have been using Weibo to aggregate and share information. Ordinary users,
journalists, writers, lawyers, academics, intellectuals, a broad swath of
people, have been digging out old media coverage that illuminates these recent
events," said David Bandurski, a researcher at the China Media Project in Hong
Kong.

Shi Anbin, a professor of media studies at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said
the availability of information on Weibo had helped mainstream media to push the
boundaries and caused the public to lose confidence in the government.

"Weibo is amplifying information the government does not announce. There is
pressure from these grassroots [for the media to be more critical]. CCTV has
heard the message. I think the leadership has acknowledged it, too," he said.

For the middle class, there is anger over safety scandals and corruption.

"They have been living in a paradox," Mr. Shi said. "They are told we are the
greatest economy and that we are saving the world after the financial crisis.
But they still have to deal with primary-level crises, such as food safety and
accidents."

As it loses the battle to control the population through the media, and through
internet and video surveillance, the government has resorted in recent months to
displays of raw power, sending squadrons of paramilitary police on to the
streets of several cities to prevent riots.

China now spends about $90-billion a year on "internal security," more than on
the People's Liberation Army. But it has not been able to stop the number of
riots from tripling in the past five years to 180,000 in 2011 - or 493 a day -
according to a professor at Tsinghua University.

So far, there is no indication the bubbling public anger of the past few weeks
is a threat to the Communist party. But Beijing is jittery about the prospect of
a similar Arab Spring, and anxious enough it detained hundreds of lawyers and
activists in February.

"It is much too early [to tell whether the public anger will force a fundamental
change]," said Mr. Bandurski. "Let's not forget the episode of SARS and Sun
Zhigang in 2003. Reporting on the beating to death of a young Sun Zhigang
rallied public anger and eventually brought the repeal of China's law on
detention and repatriation.

"But once the storm had passed, Party leaders disciplined 10 media that had been
among the most outspoken, signalling the time for boldness was over."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: China Daily, Reuters; Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao lays a bouquet of
flowers to mourn victims of a train crash days after the accident.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              July 10, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

President Hu Jintao promises to 'severely punish' riot ringleaders; Local
government says it will execute instigators of clashes

BYLINE: Peter Foster and Malcolm Moore, Daily Telegraph

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 551  words

DATELINE: URUMQI, China


The Chinese president has promised to "severely punish" those responsible for
riots in Urumqi which left 156 people dead, as police began rounding up alleged
ringleaders on Thursday.

Hu Jintao, who abandoned the G8 summit in Italy to deal with the situation in
China's far western province of Xinjiang, said after a meeting with the
Politburo that the unrest was a "severe violent criminal event."

More than 1,400 people have already been arrested in connection with the riots,
but the authorities stepped up the hunt for those responsible, putting up
notices across the city urging rioters to turn themselves in.

The notices, written in Chinese and Uighur, said that those who hid or protected
"criminals" would also be punished.

In Beijing, a prominent university professor was detained for "just posting
reports on his blog," according to Reporters without Borders, an organization
promoting free speech.

Ilham Tohti, an ethnic Uighur, was arrested after Nur Bekri, the governor of
Xinjiang, said on national television that his blog had fomented the riots. He
subsequently disappeared from his home in the capital.

The local government in Xinjiang has said it will execute the instigators of the
clashes between local Uighur Muslims and Han Chinese, which began on Sunday.

Li Zhi, the Communist party secretary in the city, said that many people
suspected of inciting riots had now been arrested, including some students.

The Politburo emphasized that "foreign forces" were responsible for inciting the
riots. China's foreign ministry has previously accused Rebiya Kadeer, the
62-year-old head of the World Uighur Congress in Washington, of masterminding
the violence and said it had gathered evidence against her. Kadeer denied any
responsibility.

On Thursday, a sense of normality returned to the streets of Urumqi for the
first time since Sunday's violence. Citizens could be seen performing their
morning tai chi exercises in the park and walking their dogs.

Many more shops were open and office workers began returning to work after a
substantial influx of police on Wednesday quelled the threat of further disorder
and revenge attacks.

Neighbourhood committees organized carts full of watermelons for the
paramilitary police as a "thank you" for their work preventing further major
bloodshed.

Wang Jun, a 55-year-old housewife who was delivering melons to the police, said
she finally felt safe after four days of tension. She added that she was
optimistic that relations between Han and Uighur communities could be rebuilt.

"I was very angry at first, but as the days have gone by I realize that this is
a temporary emotion that must pass," she said. "I think this violence was done
by a small 'separatist' element that do not represent the majority of ordinary
Uighurs who, just like us, also want safety and stability."

Across the street, a Uighur hotel security guard, Tuoheti, 28, said he also
believed that Han and Uighur could heal the wounds inflicted in the last four
days.

"This has been a terrible time, the riot controls have imposed great
inconvenience on everybody and we're all happy to see stability return."

Not everyone was satisfied with the police response. Shopkeepers returning to
their businesses for the first time since Sunday expressed anger that the
authorities had not moved more swiftly.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: David Gray, Reuters; Chinese soldiers in riot gear guard the
entrance of a large Uighur mosque from Han Chinese revenge attacks in the centre
of the city of Urumqi in China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region on Thursday. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Record food prices could trigger riots, protectionism; Increases have greatest
impact on world's poorest people

BYLINE: Neil Fullick And Peter Aps, Reuters

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 728  words

DATELINE: LONDON


Record-high food prices are moving to the top of policy-maker agendas, driven by
fears they could stoke inflation, protectionism and unrest and dent consumer
demand in key emerging economies.

The United Nations' food agency said food prices last month surged ahead of the
record 2008 levels that triggered riots in countries as far afield as Egypt,
Cameroon and Haiti.

Such prices hit the poor hardest, raising the risk of riots, export bans on
food, expropriation of foreign-owned farmland and further price spikes fuelled
by short-term investors.

The potential humanitarian, political and business impact, particularly in
impoverished states in Africa and the Caribbean, is alarming officials.

"Food price increases impact the poor hardest as food is a higher proportion of
their incomes," said James Bond, head of the World Bank's political risk
insurance arm.

"It creates significant tension in poorer countries, exacerbates standard of
living disparities and is a major source of unrest."

The 2008 price spike ended with the global economic crisis, but no one expects
anything to blunt the new rise in food prices.

The cost of food rose 11.7 per cent in the year ending Nov. 30.

So far, experts say weather -- floods in Australia, drought in Argentina and
Russia and potentially crop damaging frosts in Europe and North America -- is
largely to blame for prices.

But they worry politics and markets could produce a vicious circle.

"The danger is that what happens now is that you get a second shock as countries
can respond by imposing export bans and financial markets investors pile in for
short-term investment, pushing prices much higher," said Maximo Torero at
Washington's International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI).

Russia imposed export restrictions last year after drought. In 2008, IFPRI says
at least 13 countries including Argentina, Cambodia, Kazakhstan, China,
Ethiopia, Malaysia and Zambia imposed food export bans or export taxes, further
squeezing supply. In China, several cities have ordered limits to food price
increases.

Torero said unrest could drive speculative investment and panic buying, even if
food supply alone is not the entire problem. He pointed to reported food riots
last year in Mozambique as an example, saying they were as much about subsidy
cuts as supply issues.

"Clearly, what is needed is to increase production through appropriate
investment in agriculture, to increase the information on stocks around the
world, strengthen the regulation of the futures markets and to have safety net
mechanisms to protect the poorest consumers," he said.

In Singapore, for example, the government is telling citizens to be "creative."

"I have 200 chili plants in flowerpots," President Susilo Yudhoyono Bambang said
Thursday of a food key to his country's cuisine.

"The agriculture ministry is ... encouraging consumers to plant chili in their
own yards."

Political risk insurers, who provide protection against dangers such as
confiscation or political violence, are watching closely -- although they say
there has not yet been any direct impact on premiums.

"The potential is there for food riots and also for governments to take action
such as embargoes on food exports or nationalization of assets involved in food
production or storage in order to protect their people -- not always necessarily
for the sake of altruism but often to preserve their position as governments in
office," said a senior underwriter in the London political risk insurance
market.

The highest risks of farmland expropriation remain in Latin America, insurers
say, particularly Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador, but this is more due to local
politics than prices.

The greatest impact of the recent rally could be on land deals in Africa.

The 2008 spike produced a flurry of interest in farmland purchases from Western
funds and emerging countries such as China and Gulf states keen to ensure their
food supplies.

They have proved controversial. Local anger over the purchase of Madagascan
farmland by South Korean firm Daewoo was seen by some as a contributing factor
in the island's 2009 coup.

"The main risks will come where they are in an area where the population is
short of food themselves and the deal is seen as being in some way
inappropriately negotiated," said Jonathan Wood, global issues analyst at
Control Risks.

"A lot will depend on the individual deal."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Amit Dave, Reuters; People shop at an  open-air vegetable and
fruit market in the western Indian city of  Ahmedabad on Thursday. Record-high
food prices are moving to the top  of the agenda for many world policy-makers as
the prospect of higher  inflation in 2011 poses a major threat to emerging
economies' strong  revival from the global financial crisis.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                               The Daily Monitor

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Britain fuelling Hong Kong riots - China

BYLINE: Agencies -1

LENGTH: 276  words


Swire told parliament that Britain had "both a legal interest and a moral
obligation in the monitoring and implementation" of the agreement.

Beijing- British MPs' attempts to "interfere in China's domestic affairs" by
visiting Hong Kong are "unacceptable" and "doomed to fail", Beijing's foreign
ministry said Wednesday.
Chinese authorities blocked members of the former colonial power's legislature
from visiting the city, which has been gripped by weeks of pro-democracy
protests.
"Some people from the British side attempt to use the so-called moral obligation
to mislead the public and interfere in China's domestic affairs," foreign
ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular briefing.
"This kind of unacceptable act is doomed to fail."
The criticism
During a rare emergency debate in which British MPs urged the government to take
a tougher line with China, Mr Hugo Swire, a Foreign Office minister, called
China's ban "wholly unjustified" but stressed the need to "pursue dialogue in
issues even when we disagree".
Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee were denied visas to visit Hong Kong
later this month.
The committee is investigating Britain's responsibilities under the Sino-British
Joint Declaration, the 1984 treaty that established procedures for the handover.

Swire told parliament that Britain had "both a legal interest and a moral
obligation in the monitoring and implementation" of the agreement.
Andrew Rosindell, a member of British Prime Minister David Cameron's
Conservative party, urged that the Chinese ambassador be summoned to the Foreign
Office to explain, describing the visa ban as "shameful" and "nothing short of
an outrage".

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1148


                       Copyright 2014 Nation Media Group
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 10, 2002, Monday

Brazil's critics still far from convinced

BYLINE: Oliver Kay

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 293 words


Brazil 4 China 0

THE beautiful game, Luiz Felipe Scolari pronounced on his appointment as Brazil
coach last year, is dead, a statement seen as heresy in the land of samba
football. No matter on Saturday that his team, unlike Argentina, France and
Italy, had all but secured their second-round place; Big Phil, as he is no
longer affectionately known, was forced into a passionate defence of his methods
by an unforgiving media.

Some 57 per cent of the country, according to the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper,
believe that Brazil are on course for a fifth World Cup but that any victory
would be of the pyrrhic variety. This team, so the popular notion goes, is
characterised not by the attacking flair of the triple-R forward line but by the
defensive solidity that Scolari has instilled. "This is the evolution of
football," the coach said, "but the people just won't understand that."

Their critics believe that Brazil should have scored more than four goals
against a China team playing in their first World Cup. Sporadically they clicked
into the samba beat, but all too rarely to pacify the purists. The addition of a
solitary Ronaldo goal in the second half was considered an anticlimax after a
first period in which Brazil occasionally threatened to run riot.

China had the better of the opening 15 minutes before Roberto Carlos restored
the natural order with a delightful swerving free kick. Rivaldo volleyed a neat
second on 32 minutes from a cross by Ronaldinho, who scored with a penalty on
the stroke of half-time after a marvellous move ended with Ronaldo brought down.
Brazil sat back after Ronaldo tapped in the fourth, and Zhao Junzhe hit a post
instead of scoring the consolation goal that China more than deserved.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited


                              109 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday

Muslim group urges sensitivity in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 436  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING, June 22 -- The head of the world's largest Muslim grouping urged China
on Tuesday to match economic growth in its restive Xinjiang region with more
attention to other concerns of its Uighur minority.

The carefully worded comments by Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, Secretary-General of the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), came after he completed a visit to
Xinjiang as the July anniversary of deadly ethnic riots approached.

"We hope development on the cultural field will go hand in hand with the
economic field," Ihsanoglu told reporters in Beijing before leaving China.

Ihsanoglu arrived last week for his seven-day visit - the first-ever to China by
a head of the 57-member, pan-Islamic organisation - that included two days in
Xinjiang, the traditionally Muslim northwestern region.

Authorities there are bracing for the July 5 anniversary of deadly violence that
pitted Muslim ethnic Uighurs against members of China's dominant Han ethnic
group, leaving nearly 200 people dead, according to government figures.

The riots in the capital Urumqi provoked an outcry last year in some Muslim
countries over China's treatment of Xinjiang's rougly eight million Uighurs, who
have long alleged political, religious and cultural repression by Beijing.

Since the riots, China has said it would pour around 10 billion yuan (1.5
billion dollars) in development aid into the region beginning in 2011 in a bid
to raise Uighur living standards and quell simmering discontent.

However, Uighurs complain that rapid state-backed development in the region has
benefited only Han migrants to the area and that an influx of Han threatens to
further swamp their culture.

Ihsanoglu declined to comment further on what the OIC would like to see in
Xinjiang, and otherwise applauded China's efforts to increase development there.

Ihsanoglu, who met with government leaders in Xinjiang, said China had also
pledged to raise the per capita income in the region up to the national average
by 2015.

"I think this is a serious attempt from the government to address the issue of
unrest," he said.

Ihsanoglu, whose Xinjiang tour took him to Urumqi and the ancient Silk Road
oasis city of Kashgar, said the situation ahead of the anniversary appeared
"more relaxed."

While he was in Xinjiang, Ihsanoglu said he toured a religious school and
mosques, and in Beijing he met with China's top legislator Wu Bangguo and the
head of the National Administration for Religious Affairs. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                 Copyright 2010 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hindustan

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

China suspended exchange

LENGTH: 122  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING, May 19 -- After the anti China riots, China has suspended bilateral
exchange schemes with Vietnam on May 18. The spokesperson of Chinese foreign
ministry Huang Tei said, in the violence taking place in Vietnam targeting the
foreign companies from past May 13, there has been loss of Chinese citizens and
property. It has harmed the environment and conditions for bilateral talks and
support.

Reference: Original article of this translated version is available at

http://paper.hindustantimes.com/epaper/viewer.aspx; Delhi edition; pg 9

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Hindustan. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Hindustan Media Ventures Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

VAT rise sparks days of riots by migrant workers

BYLINE: Leo Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 473 words


A dispute over VAT on sewing machines in a town that represents the world
capital of baby clothing production has sparked two days of riots, with more
than 1,000 migrant workers attacking cars and public buildings.

The rioting in the town of Zhili in Zhejiang province, which has about 5,000
baby clothing factories, continued yesterday despite claims by Beijing that a
relatively small protest by factory owners the previous day had been brought
under control.

The claims were comprehensively undermined by a flood of images and running
commentary on Sina Weibo, China's equivalent of Twitter, describing riots of
increasing vehemence and ever larger numbers of participants. Military and
police vehicles were said to be choking the town centre as riot police
confronted a crowd armed with stones.

Police cars were set on fire and a police bus was overturned in a frenzy of
anger directed at symbols of state power. The violence is thought to have begun
when a prominent factory owner refused to pay a new tax on sewing machines and
gathered a crowd of supporters to confront the tax collector.

In an attempt to staunch the flow of information from the heart of the riots,
China's internet censors banned certain words from the search function of Sina
Weibo. Among them was the word "Zhili", a town of 300,000 people, two thirds of
whom are migrant workers.

The rioting by migrant workers provoked a wave of anger among locals, resentful
that the protests forced the closure of supermarkets, restaurants and other
shops in the centre of town.

One Weibo posting that escaped the official censor's scrutiny laid bare the rift
between locals and migrants. "How can we continue our life? Shoot them dead," it
railed. Other Weibo postings by shop owners suggest the rioting involved an
organised march across town, with multiple lootings by the protesters.

Although "mass incidents" of varying degrees of ferocity are thought by some
academics to occur across China at the rate of about 500 a day, Beijing remains
acutely sensitive to the threat of widespread and potentially contagious unrest.
The concerns have intensified as the economy has squared up to government credit
tightening policies and the threat of global downturn.

As darkness fell on Zhili and the protests grew, the initial complaint, a
doubling of the local province VAT on sewing machines from 300 yuan to 600 (£30
to £60), was almost forgotten. Instead, protesters fell back on the well-worn
fury that surrounds the abusive treatment of migrant workers.

The attempts by Beijing to suppress online discussion of the Zhili rioting comes
amid a broader crackdown on social media.

Recent developments, including new penalties for "spreading of false rumours
online", have prompted speculation that the major microblog portals such as Sina
Weibo may ultimately face severe restrictions.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot police patrol the streets of Zhili, where migrant workers attacked
symbols of the state and overturned cars, above right
CARLOS BARRIA / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 1, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Briefing

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 60 words


Manchester: Labour Party annual conference continues UK: Automatic enrolment
pension scheme comes into force; National Minimum Wage annual increase takes
effect, rising to £6.19 an hour; wheel clamping on private land banned in
England and Wales from today Russia: Appeal hearing scheduled for the feminist
punk band Pussy Riot China: National Day, a public holiday

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             April 14, 2008 Monday

Riots: Media bias doesn't clear China

BYLINE: Chong Yew Mun

LENGTH: 379  words


I REFER to Friday's letter, 'Tibet's current violence smells of a Western
agenda'. Dr Ong Siew Chey suggests the Western media has been myopic in its
reporting of the recent riots in Tibet by failing to appreciate China's role in
ensuring Tibet's continued progress.

Much as I appreciate the history tidbits of Tibet, his suggestion implies that
what China has done to quell the riots is justified based on what it has done
for Tibet. In my opinion, this is akin to a defence lawyer presenting mitigating
evidence of a defendant's past to diminish the charge against him. While Western
media may not have been entirely balanced in its reporting, this in no way
changes the fact that China has been heavy-handed in how it has handled the
riots.

More than just about Tibet, the protests are also a statement of human rights,
no matter how flawed a method of argument they are. They draw attention to a
fundamental principle the United Nations recognises in its famous Article 19
Declaration. Although some may say the Olympic Games should not be politicised
in this cause, the reality is that China has pulled out all the stops for the
Games. This only implies how much of a public relations opportunity it regards
them as. By its own actions therefore, it has already politicised the Games.

Undeniably, the West's own human rights record is not flawless, as the
controversies over the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq and the Guantanamo Bay prison
in Cuba suggest. But the ironic fact is, we are often quicker to recognise
another's mistakes, and slower to recognise our own. Perhaps one can see it as a
system of checks and balances, a system that ensures no country is left to do
entirely as it pleases.

In the same letter, Dr Ong suggests the riots in Tibet were curiously timed with
the Olympics in Beijing and are unlikely to have been spontaneous. Dr Ong points
to the Western media, China points to the Dalai Lama. At best, who the
perpetrators are at this point is still unclear. But this is a timely occasion
to think about where China stands on its human rights record, as it takes on a
ever-growing role on the world stage. No matter who instigated the riots, China
alone is responsible for its reaction. After all, its reaction to the riots
sparked off the protests we see now.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Beijing defends Chinese youths in Seoul riots;
China says they meant well; South Korea to prosecute the protesters amid public
outcry

BYLINE: Tracy Quek, China Correspondent

SECTION: ASIA - CHINA

LENGTH: 624  words


BEIJING - BEIJING yesterday defended Chinese students who clashed with
protesters during the Olympic torch relay in Seoul, even as South Korea
announced it would prosecute and deport the Chinese youths involved.

On Sunday, more than 6,000 Chinese students turned up in the South Korean
capital to root for their country as the Olympic flame passed through the city.

Nationalistic feelings have been stirred up after anti-Chinese protests dogged
earlier legs of the torch's global journey.

Scuffles broke out when protesters, including North Koreans, demonstrated
against China's forced repatriation of North Korean refugees and its crackdown
on Tibetans.

Videos and pictures of Chinese students beating and kicking protesters, and in
some cases, hurling water bottles, stones and other objects at demonstrators,
were circulated online and have sparked a public outcry in South Korea.

Already, there are signs that the incident could blow up into a diplomatic spat
between the two Asian neighbours, whose political relationship has long been 'a
little strange and awkward', according to one analyst.

Beijing-based international relations expert Shi Yinhong said that although
trade ties between China and South Korea are booming, 'politically, there have
been some historical territorial disputes between the two countries. There are
also differences between both sides that I can only describe as psychological'.

'This incident is bound to add an unpleasant psychological element to bilateral
ties,' he told The Straits Times.

On Monday, South Korea's Foreign Ministry lodged a complaint with the Chinese
ambassador in Seoul.

Politicians have also vowed 'legal and diplomatic measures' against the Chinese
students responsible for the attacks which Prime Minister Han Seung Soo said had
'considerably damaged national pride'.

Yesterday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Jiang Yu said she had no knowledge
of any plans to take action against the students.

Although Beijing has hit out at anti-China protesters for disrupting earlier
legs of the torch relay, Ms Jiang refrained from levelling the same criticism at
the Chinese youths.

The Chinese students, 'unlike Tibet independence saboteurs', meant well, she
told reporters at a press briefing in Beijing.

'They were friendly and were there to welcome the torch and to protect the
dignity of the torch. I believe that is natural,' she said.

She acknowledged that 'perhaps some students got carried away by emotions, and
this led to some friction', but said the students had good intentions.

'The real intention of the students was good. I hope everyone can distinguish
the true nature and cause of the events,' she said.

Her comments, however, could potentially fan growing anti-Chinese sentiment in
fiercely nationalistic South Korea.

Newspaper editorials and netizens have lashed out at the Chinese students for
their actions and questioned if Beijing was worthy to host the Olympics in
August.

'What right do these people have to travel in hordes in a foreign capital,
hurling punches and launching kicks at others?' Chosun Ilbo, the country's
biggest daily, said in an editorial.

Joongang Daily, another major newspaper, criticised the Chinese students'
'narrow-minded nationalism'.

'They have once again portrayed themselves as members of a not-quite-developed
country on the international stage,' the paper added.

Ms Jiang dismissed suggestions that Chinese embassies stationed overseas had
anything to do with the massive turnout by pro-Chinese supporters in Asian legs
of the torch relay.

'It is not true, stop playing up this issue,' she told a reporter sternly.

China's troubled global torch relay ends today, when the torch reaches Hong
Kong.

tracyq@sph.com.sg

ADDITIONAL REPORTING BY LEE TEE JONG IN SEOUL

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday

Camera phone: potent new weapon;
Chinese protesters armed with cellphones and the Internet pose a new challenge
to Chinese govt

BYLINE: Peh Shing Huei CHINA BUREAU CHIEF

LENGTH: 724 words


BEIJING: -

The Chinese government is squaring up to a more potent weapon for rioters - the
camera phone.

In the recent riot in Shishou city in the central province of Hubei, the
authorities were assaulted on the Internet with videos taken on Nokias,
Motorolas and Samsungs.

'It was like a live telecast,' said Dr Yu Jianrong, an expert in peasant
resistance from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

'The biggest difference between the Shishou incident and previous riots is the
amount of video footage uploaded online. We have not seen this before.'

Hours after some 10,000 protesters set fire to a hotel and overturned police
cars over the mysterious death of a hotel chef in Shishou, dozens of videos of
the riot started appearing on Chinese cyberspace last Friday.

They were pixellated, unedited and short.

They were also not flattering to the Chinese authorities, showing the disdain
the Shishou residents had for the government, as they hurled stones, bricks and
beer bottles at the police while onlookers cheered 'Da de hao!' (good hit!).

A check by The Straits Times found different video footage online - at least 20
- although most have since been deleted by censors.

And even though access to YouTube has been blocked in China for the last three
months, netizens were still able to upload onto the video-sharing site.

'What is the point of deleting?' said Dr Yu. 'The videos are still here, there
and everywhere. The people are getting more avenues to communicate.

'How can the government control it? Everybody can speak now. Everybody can
express their views.'

It is a massive headache for the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which has been
pampered by decades of total control over the mainstream media and a
stranglehold over sources of communication and information.

The video of the death of Iranian student Neda Agha Soltan, shot on a camera
phone, and the uproar it created internationally, is a further reminder to the
CCP of the power of the increasingly high-tech mobile phones.

Days after the Shishou protest, the party's mouthpiece, the People's Daily,
labelled the current age as the 'Microphone Era', a time when the power of every
individual to broadcast information is akin to each having a microphone.

'In the first 80 hours of the incident..there were three articles laying out the
government's position,' the article observed.

'But on the forum of just one website alone, there were nearly 500 postings on
the subject. On some blogs, there were quite a few videos shot by netizens using
camera phones.'

The article wondered aloud how the government should deal with this new
Microphone Era and concluded that it has to be faster with the news and reach
the people through every means possible - not unlike what the government did
during last year's Sichuan earthquake.

That is one strategy favoured by some - to loosen the controls over the
mainstream media so that it can be a more credible alternative to the new media.

It is a realisation that the alternative of controlling the new media is a
pretty hopeless endeavour given the exponential growth in China's netizens and
mobile phone users.

By next year, market analysts expect the number of mobile phone subscribers to
hit 750 million, a jump of nearly 200 million from just 2007. Most of the users
will be carrying phones with built-in cameras.

Netizens' numbers are likely to hit 322 million at the end of this year,
tripling the online population of 2005.

But the hardline stance to control and censor still looms large.

The Xinhua-run Outlook Weekly magazine chastised local officials earlier this
month for not understanding the power of the Internet to stir up protests, and
urged them to think of new ways to rein in this new cyber power.

At Shishou, such suggestions were seemingly taken up, with residents reporting
that mobile phone signals were jammed, Internet connection disrupted and even
electricity cut off for a short period.

Such measures have mixed results, said Law Professor Carl Minzner of the
Washington University in St Louis.

'It certainly hinders the efforts of protesters or rioters to coordinate among
themselves.

'But people do switch to other channels, such as new technologies, or
old-fashioned ones, such as word of mouth or putting up flyers. Both the
government and people are learning from each other.'

shpeh@sph.com.sg

Additional reporting by Lina Miao

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

China gets tough: The sack for poor handling of unrest;
Beijing raises the bar for official accountability

BYLINE: Sim Chi Yin, China Correspondent

LENGTH: 633 words


BEIJING: Mishandle a protest and you may be fired.

Beijing has issued this tough warning to Chinese officials, spelling out their
accountability to the public in what might be the most comprehensive regulations
to date.

Seen by observers as Beijing's response to the mounting number of mass protests
in various parts of the country, the 26-point document issued through the Xinhua
state news agency on Sunday night takes immediate effect.

The new regulations state that government and Chinese Communist Party officials
can be sacked for abuse of power; 'incorrect handling of group protests or
accidents'; allowing a spate of serious accidents to occur because of
dereliction of duty, or for other forms of misconduct that harm national
interests.

Officials who fall foul of the regulations will face the court if their
misconduct is found to be criminal, the document stated.

And those who interfere with investigations of their own misdeeds, who cover up
evidence or take revenge on whistleblowers, will face even harsher punishment,
Xinhua said.

A separate regulation issued yesterday said that heads of state-owned
enterprises who violate company procedures will also be taken to task.

While Beijing has been relatively quick to punish corrupt officials in recent
years, it has of late broadened its focus to institutionalising a system of 'wen
ze', or accountability to the public.

A rising tide of mass protests - often sparked by local officials' mishandling
of a small, everyday incident - signals a steady erosion of public trust which
Beijing knows must be arrested, observers noted.

Last year, the government dealt with more than 100,000 'mass incidents' of civil
unrest. Data for this year has not been released, but news reports on mass
clashes between people and local government officials abound.

In June, more than 50,000 residents in Shishou, Hubei province, took to the
streets and clashed with police after a hotel employee died in unusual
circumstances.

The new regulations have been released exactly a week after a demonstration in
Urumqi, capital of the restive north-western Xinjiang region, turned into the
worst inter-ethnic riots China has seen in decades - even as paramilitary police
stood guard.

But the document will have been in the works for months, if not years, according
to Dr Bo Zhiyue, an expert on China's domestic politics at the National
University of Singapore's East Asian Institute.

With this year filled with several sensitive political anniversaries, including
the 60th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in
October, Beijing is vexed over the possibility that there may be major social
upheaval, Dr Bo noted.

'This is a critical year. Beijing feels if it doesn't do something, the problem
may snowball.

'It is now sending a clear signal to local officials that they must do something
to keep things in order, or be held responsible,' he said.

Most importantly, noted Dr Bo, the regulations plug a loophole by making clear
that Communist Party officials, as well as government officials, will be brought
to book if they do not do their jobs.

Previously, it was often local government officials who took the fall while
party bosses - the ones who wield real power - were spared.

But whether the new rules will be effective is questionable, said China analyst
Wang Zhengxu, of the University of Nottingham in Britain, who is currently
teaching in Beijing.

In China, sacked officials usually make a quick political comeback with an
appointment in another province or ministry, Dr Wang noted.

'The general trend for officials is only upwards and never downwards, even in
corruption cases. Unless their offences are found to be criminal, whether they
get another appointment is still, at the end of the day, a political decision,'
he said.

simcy@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

China defines paramilitary police's role;
New law passed yesterday authorises People's Armed Police to handle social
unrest

BYLINE: Sim Chi Yin, China Correspondent

LENGTH: 647 words


BEIJING: Faced with a growing tide of social unrest, China yesterday approved a
law spelling out for the first time the role of the paramilitary police force in
quelling riots and bolstering Beijing's control of its deployment.

The law, passed by the national legislature, came less than two months after
deadly riots in the western region of Xinjiang were brought under control by the
paramilitary People's Armed Police (PAP).

The paramilitary police will handle rebellion, riots, large-scale serious
criminal violence, terror attacks and other social safety incidents, according
to the text of the law released by the official Xinhua news agency last night.

But it cannot detain people or search them or their property illegally.

A key part of the country's armed forces, the 680,000-strong paramilitary police
force stationed across the country has long been used to put down domestic
unrest as well as guard key installations, government offices and borders.

But the new law, which takes immediate effect, clarifies and provides a legal
basis for their role in quelling riots. It also clearly sets out the chain of
command - amid concerns that some local leaders fan unrest by misusing the
troops as a sort of private army.

The law states that the State Council, or China's Cabinet, and the Communist
Party's top military body, the Central Military Commission - which oversees both
the People's Liberation Army and the paramilitary police - will have the final
authorisation for deployment of the paramilitary force.

An earlier draft of the law suggested that county-level officials could mobilise
paramilitary police troops in some situations but this was later revised.

At a press conference after the law was passed yesterday, National People's
Congress official Wang Shangxin told reporters: 'The joint authorisation by the
State Council and the Party's Central Military Commission is how the PAP has
worked for many years; it has proven effective.'

This centralisation of deployment in Beijing's hands 'makes it more difficult
for local governments to abuse their power when demonstrations take place and
suppress the people while giving fabricated reports to higher authorities', said
China expert Huang Jing of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy.

Calling the law long overdue, Hong Kong-based China analyst Willy Lam said: 'The
PAP has been shrouded in secrecy. Now, its precise functions and chain of
command are clear.'

Founded in 1982, the armed force's size and role have expanded substantially in
recent years, said Dr Lam.

Beijing has been careful not to be seen as setting the army on ordinary
citizens, after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests were put down by regular
troops, perplexing and angering many.

The PAP has been used instead in cases of civil unrest. Last month, it was
deployed to end riots in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi, where Uighurs clashed with
Han Chinese, leaving almost 200 people dead - making it China's worst ethnic
violence in decades.

Last year, paramilitary troops subdued rioters in Tibetan areas after violence
there left at least 18 people dead.

Such a law was first proposed 15 years ago but got a first reading only in April
this year, said local news reports. Laws usually pass only on the third reading,
but this one came into effect after just two rounds, suggesting urgency.

The growing number of 'mass incidents' has put the police force under strain,
particularly ahead of the 60th birthday of the People's Republic on Oct 1.

Beijing has, in recent months, been urging local officials to handle social
unrest in a transparent and timely way. Under President Hu Jintao, Beijing has
also emphasised acting in line with the law.

Meanwhile, apparently jolted by the Xinjiang riots, the Communist Party's
publicity department has launched an education campaign to make studies in
ethnic harmony compulsory for high school students.

simcy@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday

Knife attack in China s Xinjiang leaves seven dead

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 573 words


China: Seven people were killed and 28 others injured by knife-wielding
assailants in Xinjiang, Chinese authorities said Sunday, in the latest bout of
unrest to hit the ethnically-tense region.
One of the attackers was later killed in the violence that erupted Saturday
night in Kashgar city -- the second attack this month in Xinjiang, where the
mainly Muslim Uighur minority has long seethed against Chinese rule.


Hou Hanmin, spokeswoman for the government of the northwestern region, told AFP
the attackers were both Uighurs, adding the suspect who was still alive had been
detained.
"The case is still under investigation so I don t have more information," she
said.
According to tianshannet.com, a website run by the regional government, the two
suspects hijacked a truck that was waiting at a light at the food market in the
ancient Silk Road city of Kashgar, near the border with Kyrgyzstan.
They killed the driver, ploughed the vehicle into passers-by on a nearby
pavement, then got off the truck and stabbed people at random, leaving six
bystanders dead before the crowd turned on them and killed one attacker.
An English-language report from the official Xinhua news agency said two blasts
were heard before the incident, saying the first came from a minivan and the
other was heard almost simultaneously and originated from the market.
But it gave no further details, and the Chinese-language Xinhua report made no
mention of the blasts. Hou said she had no information on any explosions.
Police in Kashgar would not comment and the Xinjiang public security bureau was
not immediately available when contacted by AFP.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress -- an
exile group -- cited local sources as saying many of the victims were members of
a civilian force that maintains public security.
The attack is the latest bout of violence to hit Xinjiang -- a vast, arid but
resource-rich region bordering Central Asia, home to more than eight million
Turkic-speaking Uighurs -- that has long been plagued by unrest.
Earlier this month, more than 20 people were killed in a violent clash with
police in the remote city of Hotan.
State media quoted an official in Xinjiang as saying that clash was a
"terrorist" attack, adding that four people including a police officer were
killed when a crowd set upon a police station.
But Uighur activists called it an outburst of anger by ordinary Uighurs and said
security forces beat 14 people to death and shot dead six others during the
unrest.

Many Uighurs are unhappy with what they say has been decades of repressive rule
by Beijing and the unwanted immigration of China s dominant Han ethnic group.
While standards of living have improved, Uighurs complain that most of the gains
go to the Han.
This tension culminated with savage Uighur attacks on Han Chinese in the
regional capital Urumqi in July 2009.
The government says nearly 200 people were killed and 1,700 injured in the riots
-- China s worst ethnic violence in decades -- which shattered the authoritarian
Communist Party s claims of harmony among the country s dozens of ethnic groups.

China threw a huge security clampdown onto Xinjiang after the violence, and many
Uighurs are enraged by the arrests or alleged disappearances of people rounded
up across the region in the aftermath.
Raxit said he was worried that the latest incident would trigger the arrest of
more Uighurs.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2012 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern Territory News (Australia)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

China death toll hits 156

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 347 words


URUMQI: China has poured troops into its restive Urumqi city in a massive show
of force, as President Hu Jintao abandoned a G8 summit in Italy to deal with a
deadly outbreak of ethnic unrest.

With tensions between China's dominant Han people and its Muslim Uighurs showing
no signs of easing, many Han residents insisted on carrying makeshift weapons
following the violence.

In Urumqi, the capital of the remote northwest Xinjiang region where 156 people
died in riots on Sunday, army helicopters circled overhead on Wednesday as
thousands of soldiers and riot police filled the city shouting ``protect the
people''.

``We support this. The government has to take action to protect the people,''
said a Han Chinese man surnamed Run, 45, as he watched the troops roll by in
trucks.

``But they should have got here sooner. It took them three days to do this. Why
so long?''

After authorities blamed Muslim Uighurs for Sunday's unrest that also left more
than 1000 people injured, Han Chinese took to the streets on Tuesday with
shovels, meat cleavers and other weapons vowing to defend themselves.

The city descended into chaos as thousands of Han surged towards Uighur
neighbourhoods, only to be pushed back by security forces who fired volleys of
tear gas.

After a night-time curfew was declared on Tuesday, Chinese authorities appeared
determined to show they were able to maintain order, with some troops carrying
rifles with bayonets affixed.

Riot police lined up wearing helmets and carrying shields on a main road in
central Urumqi dividing the city from a southern Uighur district, with columns
of soldiers behind them.

Trucks rolled by with people shouting into loudspeakers: ``Everybody please
cooperate, please go home.''

But while the mobs had not returned, many Han Chinese were still carrying
makeshift weapons on yesterday morning in the city centre and outlying
districts, AFP reporters witnessed.

``I'm carrying this just for my own feeling of safety,'' said a man named Li as
he walked near the city centre carrying a martial arts nanchuk -- two batons
held together by a chain.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Times (Perth, Australia)

                                 March 16, 2008
                               5 - Final Edition

Tibetan clashes

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 52 words


POLICE used capsicum spray and batons in a chaotic battle with pro-Tibetan
protesters outside the Chinese consulate in Sydney yesterday.

Up to seven people were arrested after a melee outside the consulate, sparked by
reports from Chinese-controlled Tibet of deaths in pro-independence riots.

* China warns: Page 41

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: SDT


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 19, 2016 Saturday
                               TasWeekend Edition

System comes up trumps

BYLINE: CHARLES WOOLEY

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 892  words


Here in England, just as it is at home, I'm finding all the media commentators
are appalled by the apparently inevitable rise of the "vulgar", "rude", "crude",
"loudmouthed", "ignorant", "bigoted", "racist", "divisive", "uncouth",
"uncultured" and "dangerous" Donald Trump. Those epithets are just some from the
thesaurus of abuse hurled across the Atlantic at The Donald by scribes of both
the left and the right.

In part, I think because we treasure democracy so passionately, we are unnerved
by the appearance of this New York bull in our fragile political china shop. But
I think democracy is less delicate than many opinion writers fear.

Democracy's genes are strong and ancient. The English-speaking mob has been
breeding them since 1215 at Runnymede, where a powerful clique of purely
selfinterested barons - who probably looked and sounded a lot like Trump -
successfully challenged King John's entrenched power.

From then, fast-forward through rebellions and revolts, a civil war and the
beheading of a king, sweeping electoral reforms, the women's vote, a couple of
world wars and now social media and its appalling demotic culmination, Network
Ten's I'm a Celebrity â[#x20ac]¦ Get Me Out of Here!

Finally it's the Age of the Common Man whose voted opinion is as good as anyone
else's, but much more numerous. And in democracy, numbers have a way of coming
up trumps.

By 2003, Elizabeth II, the 18th greatgranddaughter of King John I - whose
concessions had started the democratic rot - drew the line. She simply couldn't
come at the investiture of a certain Sir Mick Jagger and arranged to be away at
the time of the ceremony. And that's exactly where most of the US's allies are,
in common disrespect of Trump. They can't do anything about it, but if he is
inaugurated president, they'd rather not go to the garden party. Ouch. That will
really hurt The Donald.

I lived in Britain with young kids in the mid-'80s when the Doomsday Clock was
at one minute to midnight. Ronald Reagan was president and he had his trembling
finger on the nuclear button.

Frighteningly, he believed in a literal translation of the Book of Revelations,
that the world would end in fire and destruction. Back then, I found that much
more unsettling than I now find the prospect of Trump.

Trump is unlikely to go to war with Russia.

He praises counterpart Vladimir Putin as "a strong leader who has made the
Russian people feel good about themselves". He has made no mention of countering
Putin's military aggression any more than he looks like facing up to Chinese
military expansion.

What he fears most about China is its cheap exports to the US. He would rather
fight China with tariffs.

In fact, Trump most often speaks like a simple man from bemused Middle America,
not much interested in the outside world. He wants to "retake America",
presumably from the politically correct opinion-makers of the liberal left. At
the same time, he is fighting the flabby, elite conservative establishment of
his own Republican Party.

Perhaps his is, in a sense, a call for another Runnymede and another American
Revolution to be fought by a majority of ordinary people who know little history
and who usually never even bother to vote, but who are now feeling lost and
disillusioned and just want to lash out.

Yes, The Donald's campaign has provoked race riots in the US this week. But the
US has those on a regular basis and mostly without any input from the Republican
front-runner.

We also had a race riot in the Melbourne CBD this week, but Trump had an alibi.
He was at a smaller, but much more widely reported, race riot in the state of
Ohio.

Yes, The Donald is vulgar. He says there is too much "bulls---" in politics.
Well, of course there is. Who can argue with that?

But is he simply adding another, even more malodorous layer? President Trump
would probably, like every other president, disappoint the people who voted for
him. And if that's the case we can all breathe easy, despite the stench.

George W. Bush was, I have been told by folk who knew him, a nice guy but
famously brainless. Fortunately, there are few leaders in the Western
democracies, once elected to office, who get to go their own feckless way.

Bush did much damage but, just like Reagan, not as much as he might have - I
mean, we are all still here. As in our democracy, US leaders always get managed.
Though in Australia's case, recent exceptions were Kevin Rudd and Tony Abbott.

When they prove too crazy, in democracies everywhere, leaders are usually
controlled.

The course of government is never left entirely to the first preference of the
naive voter and nor would it be with President Trump.

Trump is not alone in being weary of losing foreign wars. But isolationism,
while attractive to Middle Americans who are sick of their children coming home
in body bags, will be impossible. Abandoning the US's manifest global interests
would prove even more damaging. He wouldn't be allowed to retreat to Fortress
America anymore than he would get to build a wall against Latin America, or
enact any of those other loony, off-the-top-of-his-head schemes that have been
unnecessarily worrying all of us.Be reassured the US system of "checks and
balances" wisely allows for human eccentricity and guarantees absolute
presidential power is an illusion. In Washington, even if the worst happens, it
will be business as usual.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Hobart Mercury


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday

China says Uighur leader's children condemn mother

LENGTH: 503  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING , Aug. 04 -- China ratcheted up pressure on exiled Uighur activist
Rebiya Kadeer on Monday, saying two of her children and her brother had written
letters condemning their mother for orchestrating last month's ethnic riots.
China has repeatedly blamed Kadeer, once a successful businesswoman who now
lives in exile in the United States, for triggering the deadly July unrest in
the strategic and energy-rich northwestern region of Xinjiang."Because of you,
many innocent people of all ethnic groups lost their lives in Urumqi on July 5,
with huge damage of properties, shops and vehicles," Xinhua news agency quoted
one of the letters as saying.Xinhua said the letter explicitly blamed Kadeer and
the exiled World Uyghur Congress, which she leads, for the unrest."Evidence
proved the riot was organised by the World Uygur Congress, led by Rebiya Kadeer,
and implemented by a group of separatists within the Chinese borders," it added,
citing the letter.Kadeer, 62, has denied all the allegations made by the Chinese
government against her.In Xinjiang's worst ethnic violence in decades, Uighurs
attacked Han Chinese in the regional capital of Urumqi after police tried to
break up a protest against fatal attacks on Uighur workers at a factory in south
China.The official death toll from the riots stands at 197, most of whom were
Han Chinese who form the majority of China's 1.3 billion population.

Almost all the others were Uighurs, a Muslim people native to Xinjiang and
culturally tied to Central Asia and Turkey.Xinhua said the letters were written
by Kadeer's son, Khahar, and daughter Roxingul, along with younger brother
Memet.Reuters was not able to verify the letters' authenticity or confirm that
they were written voluntarily.Kadeer has 11 children. Five of her children and
nine grandchildren live in Xinjiang, including two sons.Rights groups have said
that her children face harassment, violence and persecution by the government.
Roxingul was placed under house arrest for several months in 2006, after being
briefly hospitalized with shock after witnessing her brothers Ablikim and Alim
being beaten by security forces to prevent them from trying to meet a visiting
U.S. Congressional delegation, Amnesty International said at the time.She and
her uncle Memet, or Mamat, were under house arrest again in the lead-up to the
Olympic Games, according to the Uyghur Human Rights Project.Last week, China
formally protested Japan's decision to let Kadeer visit Tokyo, as well as
Australia's permission for her to visit a film festival in Melbourne, which
features a documentary about her life.Beijing does not want to lose its grip on
Xinjiang. The vast territory borders Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, has abundant oil reserves and is
China's largest natural gas-producing region.Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News.For more information on news feed please
contact Surit Das at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

China police log evidence from deadly ethnic riots

LENGTH: 412  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Aug. 23 -- Chinese police have gathered more than 3,000 new items of
evidence to be used during trials of people charged with murder, arson, and
other crimes related to deadly rioting in July in the western region of
Xinjiang, state media reported Friday.According to a newspaper report, The
collection of evidence is a step toward prosecuting those implicated in China's
worst ethnic violence in decades, in which the government says 197 people were
killed and 1,700 injured.The rioting in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, pitted
Turkic-speaking Muslim Uighurs against members of China's dominant Han ethnic
group. Among the 3,318 items of physical evidence collected are bricks and clubs
stained with blood, the China Daily newspaper reported.

They also included 91 video clips and 2,169 photographs, it said.Calls to Urumqi
police headquarters rang unanswered Friday. Six weeks after the riots, China
insists life has largely returned to normal in the city, although officials
remain wary of renewed outbreaks of violence.In a separate report, Xinhua said
security would be further tightened for September's annual Urumqi Trade Fair -
the city's prestigious economic calling card that attracts businesspeople from
across China as well as Russia, Kazakstan and other Central Asian
nations.Security will be raised to the "highest level" for the fair's Sept. 1
opening ceremony, then lowered slightly for the rest of the five-day event,
Xinhua said. No official dates for the trials of riot suspects have been given,
although Xinhua quoted a local judge as saying they were likely to start this
month. Trials of Han would take place first, followed by those of Uighurs, it
said.Security forces will be on alert for new outbreaks of violence, it said.
The China Daily said 718 people had been detained on suspicion of taking part in
the rioting, and 83 had been formally arrested. Earlier reports said at least
1,600 were detained. It wasn't clear whether any had been released.The violence
underscored simmering resentment among many Uighurs over what they consider
Chinese occupation of their land and strict controls over religion and cultural
activities. Uighur extremists have long waged a low-intensity insurgency against
Chinese rule, although they are believed to be few in number and poorly
organized.Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.For
more information on news feed please contact Surit Das at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

200 to go on trial after Xinjiang riots: report

LENGTH: 426  words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING, Aug. 25 -- More than 200 people are expected to go on trial this week
for their involvement in sectarian riots last month that killed nearly 200
people in China's eastern region of Xinjiang, a state-run newspaper reported
Monday.The trials will take place in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang and the
site of China's worst ethnic violence in decades, in which an additional 1,700
people were injured, the China Daily reported. The rioting pitted
Turkic-speaking Muslim Uighurs against members of China's dominant Han ethnic
group.Since the riots, the government says life has largely returned to normal
in the city, although officials remain wary of renewed outbreaks of violence.The
newspaper reported last week that more than 3,300 items of physical evidence had
been collected, including bricks and clubs stained with blood.

The evidence included 91 video clips and 2,169 photographs, it said.Most of the
arrests were made in Urumqi and Kashgar, a city in southern Xinjiang with a
heavy concentration of Uighur people, the newspaper quoted an unidentified
Urumqi prosecutor as saying.The charges range from vandalizing public property
to murder, the China Daily said.Although security in Urumqi is already high, "a
drastic increase in security is expected in the whole city," the newspaper said,
especially around the Urumqi Intermediate People's Court. Armed police are
already conducting around-the-clock patrols in the area.The newspaper did not
give a breakdown on how many Uighurs and how many Han would go on trial, but it
said more than 170 Uighurs and 20 Han lawyers had been assigned to the
suspects.The China Daily said 718 people had been detained on suspicion of
taking part in the rioting. Earlier reports said at least 1,600 were detained.
It wasn't clear whether any had been released.The riots broke out July 5 after
police stopped an initially peaceful protest by Uighur youths. Uighurs then
smashed windows, burned cars and attacked Han. Two days later, the Han took to
the streets and staged retaliatory attacks.The violence underscored simmering
resentment among many Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gers) over what they consider
Chinese occupation of their land and strict controls over religion and cultural
activities. Uighur extremists have long waged a low-intensity insurgency against
Chinese rule, although they are believed to be few in number and poorly
organized.Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News.For
more information on news feed please contact Surit Das at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Troops flood into restive China region; Hu leaves G8 summit early; Violent
offenders face execution, Urumqi's Communist chief warns

BYLINE: AILEEN MCCABE, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 509  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


Heavily armed soldiers and riot police dealt with a myriad of skirmishes and
bloody scuffles yesterday as they kept the lid on ethnic violence in Urumqi, but
visibly failed to defuse the tension after three days of ethnic riots that have
left at least 156 dead and more than 1,000 wounded.

Chinese President Hu Jintao cut short his official visit to Italy and cancelled
his appearance at the G8 summit to fly home to take control of the situation
that has pitted ethnic Uighurs - Turkic-speaking Muslims - against the majority
Han Chinese population in the capital of the restive Xinjiang province.

The unprecedented situation of having unrest at home interfere with Hu's foreign
agenda will be seen as an embarrassment to the "face" conscious Chinese leader,
but the situation in Urumqi is volatile and no important decision can be made by
the Communist party politburo without him at the table. He needs to be in China
and ready to act if Urumqi erupts again.

His presence, however, only serves to underline for the world how seriously his
government sees the unrest.

On the streets in the regional capital, rival protesters clashed verbally across
barricades at several points and a few times managed to mix it up physically
yesterday, but for the most part security forces in riot gear, and some carrying
rifles with fixed bayonets, managed to keep the warring sides apart.

People were taken aback by the sheer number of military reinforcements put on
the streets overnight and by the constant hum of the helicopters that were
patrolling the skies overhead.

At a news conference, Li Zhi, the Communist Party chief in Urumqi, added to the
deterrent factor: "Those who brutally killed in the incident, we will sentence
them to death."

Urumqi airport bore testimony to the violence that has racked the desert city
since Sunday. It was crowded with people looking to find just about any flight
out to safety.

The official Xinhua News Agency quoted one traveller saying: "We fear Xinjiang
is not safe anymore."

Urumqi, a city of 2.3 million, has a majority Han population, but Uighurs
account for 45 per cent and crowd the bottom rungs of the social and economic
ladder. It was their peaceful demonstration protesting police inaction over the
death of two Uighur workers in southern China that lit the tinderbox in Urumqi
that sparked Sunday's riot. At least, that is the Uighur side of the story.

The Chinese government maintains foreign agitators led by businesswoman Rebiya
Kadeer, 62, exiled leader of the World Uighur Congress, "masterminded" the
unrest in a bid to split China.

The two sides also disagree on what happened Sunday night, specifically how the
march got so far out of control that 156 people died. Indeed, even the death
toll is in dispute.

Chinese officials say it comprises mostly Han Chinese killed by the Uighur mob
and police say they have rounded up 1,434 "suspects" so far.

Uighur groups challenge the death count, however, claiming it could be as high
as 400 and saying the majority are Uighurs killed by security forces and the Han
Chinese.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: NIR ELIAS, REUTERS; An ethnic Uighur, Ahmmad Ji, 28, accuses Han
Chinese of attacking and injuring him during this week's riots in Urumqi, in
China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

As Greeks riot, China puts cash in right place

SECTION: KAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 759  words


THE deadline is now  July 3. That's when the European Union's finance ministers
meet again and by then the Greek parliament should have passed legislation
mandating 28 billion euros of spending cuts and tax rises over the next five
years.

If it goes through each of the 10 million Greeks will ultimately be about 2800
euros ($US4000) poorer.

That's why they're rioting in the streets these days in Athens. But unless the
European finance ministers approve the plan, Greece will not get the next
12-billion-euro ($US17b) instalment of the current EU-International Monetary
Fund bail-out package in July and it will default on its gigantic debt.

As the IMF recently warned: A disorderly outcome cannot be excluded.

It was hinting the euro itself might crash, taking the European or even the
global economy down with it  and yet China seems strangely unworried.

Used-car salesmen know  if you don't give the customers credit, they won't buy
your cars.

For the past decade China has operated on the same principle, lending the US
Government money in order to keep the American dollar high and the orders for
Chinese goods flowing. Beijing now holds $1.15 trillion of US treasury bills
but as of late last year, it has stopped expanding its US dollar holdings.

This makes sense, given  the US budget deficit is 11 per cent of GDP. The US is
so deeply indebted it might be tempted to inflate its way out of its problem and
nobody wants to be sitting on a pile of a trillion US dollars when the value of
the currency collapses.

What is astonishing is China is now buying large amounts of euros instead. So
what do the Chinese know  the pundits don't?

They know  there is nowhere to hide. Holding euros is risky, but holding US
dollars is riskier  and the pound and the yen are only marginally safer.

China has to put its money somewhere and it calculates the euro is not quite as
bad a bet as it seems. Even though Greece certainly will default at some point
and probably quite soon.

Greece can never repay the 300 billion euros ($US425b) it owes, no matter how
harsh the austerity measures  it forces on its own population.

If it still had its old currency, it could make the debt shrink by printing more
drachmas and inflating the currency, but it's stuck with the euro.

Like other Mediterranean countries that joined the euro, it has a less efficient
economy than the big northern European countries that dominate the currency. It
used to stay competitive by letting inflation rip, thus making its exports
cheaper in foreign markets.

But the European Central Bank keeps the euro's inflation rate low, so now it
can't do that.

It's a trap. The euro's low inflation rate meant a low interest rate, so
although Greece could not keep its economy competitive, it could borrow money
very cheaply.

And since the euro's value is backed by much stronger economies the banks were
willing to lend Greece large sums. Ridiculously large sums, in fact. So large
Greece could never pay them back.

Didn't the banks realise this? Of course they did  but they reckoned  the richer
countries in the euro zone would cover Greece's debts in order to preserve the
integrity of the currency. That is what is happening now.

The banks stopped lending Greece money after 2008 and the European Union stepped
in to prevent a default.

The enormous sums  it and the IMF are now lending Greece (at a high interest
rate) are immediately handed over to the foreign banks that let the situation
get so far out of hand in the first place.

But the political price extracted from Greece for this bail-out is savage cuts
in the country's budget and a soaring unemployment rate.

A lot of Greeks don't see why they should pay such a high price for this
charade.

They are far from blameless  they cynically milked the EU system for a long time
but their rage is entirely understandable. So at some point Greece will decide
to default on its debt.

The money the EU and the IMF are  giving to the banks by laundering it through
Greece will then have to be shovelled directly into their coffers by the
financial authorities, embarrassing though that is.

And Greece, using heavily devalued drachmas, will still face a long period of
austerity and falling living standards, but at least it will be in charge of its
own fate.

The euro will survive all this because everybody knows  the default is coming
and is quietly making arrangements to contain the damage.

China is putting its money in the right place.

Gwynne Dyer is a London-based independent journalist whose articles are
published in 45 countries.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 14, 2002

OZZY TELLY FANS WILL FALL A BAT LAUGHING

BYLINE: by SAM PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 497 words


BAT-biting hard rocker Ozzy Osbourne's Big Brother style TV show is guaranteed
to have you rolling about.

It's all utter madness as you might expect from legendary Black Sabbath frontman
Ozzy, who once got his gnashers into a bat's head on stage.

Billed as the first fly-on-the wall sitcom, this outrageous family's day-to-day
dramas - and there are plenty - look set to put other reality TV shows in the
shade.

Among a constant stream of four-lettered words the Osbourne clan let cameras
from music channel MTV into their Californian home for six months.

Only the toilet and master bedroom were banned from the public gaze.

The result is hilarious, must-see TV, as the Brummie singer is joined by his
wife and manager Sharon, son Jack, 15, daughter Kelly, 16, and an endless array
of pets.

But his eldest daughter Aimee, 18, refused to take part.

The star of the piece is Ozzy.

Shaking constantly from years of drink and drug abuse, it's still the ageing
shock rocker who delivers the killer lines - often unintentionally - as chaos
reigns over him.

And, despite a body covered in tattoos, long black hair and dodgy dress sense,
these days Ozzy comes across far more the doddering old dad than merciless bat
chomper.

Whether he's struggling to use the remote control, sitting around in his pants,
or trying to work out which phone's ringing, he's impossible to dislike as he
ambles through the mayhem that is his family. Life with the Osbournes is
probably best summed up by Ozzy, when he explains to his warring kids: "I love
you all, I love you to death. But you're all f**king mad."

And he's not wrong.

The first episode, starting Sunday on MTV at 9pm, follows the group as they move
into their new house.

And it's not long before the palatial mansion is getting the Osbourne treatment.

As removal men erect huge crucifixes, Ozzy happily unpacks his massive gun.

But his excitement is nothing compared to when he finds the matching bayonet.

Like a child with a new toy he fits them together before running round like an
overgrown schoolboy - and no one bats an eyelid.

Meanwhile, Jack and Kerry are wrestling, the animals are running riot and the
china's broken.

Mum Sharon worries that Jack - a fat computer addict with geeky glasses - has
always been "an oddball at school".

And later, as you watch him trot round the garden in army fatigues carrying a
hunting knife, it's not hard to see why.

There's more trauma when pinkhaired Kelly, who seems to have a doting Ozzy
wrapped round her little finger, gives her nerdy bruv the slip on a night out.

In America the show has proved such a hit it earned Ozzy an invite to meet
President Bush at the White House - obviously the fact that he once took a leak
on the Alamo had either been forgiven or forgotten.

And with a second series, focussing on life at his Buckinghamshire home, already
in the pipeline, it's clear the madness is set to roll on and on.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers


                              128 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

Dalai Lama's claims exposed as laughable, says media

BYLINE: Zhuang Pinghui

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 487 words


Beijing yesterday rejected an accusation by the Dalai Lama  that some monks
involved in the Lhasa  riots were disguised as mainland armed police, saying the
exiled Tibetan spiritual leader was using an old photograph taken out of context
in order to smear the mainland.

Several western news groups,  which state-owned media  targeted in a
discrediting campaign,  were also accused of spreading "the lie".

The Global Times, affiliated to Communist Party mouthpiece the People's Daily,
splashed a front-page story yesterday saying the photograph circulated on the
internet was  taken at least three years ago.

It  showed officers of the People's Armed Police (PAP) carrying   Tibetan monks'
robes.

The Dalai Lama said on Saturday that Beijing had disguised its troops as monks
to give the impression that Tibetan monks were instigating the riots in Lhasa on
March 14.

The mainland newspaper said the security forces quelling riots in Lhasa could
not possibly have been wearing the uniforms shown in the photograph because they
were summer uniforms, unsuitable for the cold March weather.

It also said the PAP had changed to new uniforms in 2005, which feature shoulder
emblems. The armed  officers shown in the photograph were in old-style uniforms
which had been phased out after 2005.

The newspaper attacked the Dalai Lama, saying "it is not the first time the
Dalai clique  twisted facts" and that the Indian town of Dharamsala,   where his
government-in-exile is located, "is a source of lies".

The story was picked up by  Xinhua and   major news websites. Xinhua said the
photograph was taken during a  performance  years ago, when soldiers borrowed
robes from monks before performing on stage.

"The Dalai Lama made up a  rumour and some western media recklessly spread it.
The obvious loopholes have made them a laughing stock," the agency said.

This is the latest effort by state-owned media to discredit foreign journalists,
accusing them of factual errors in their reports about the Tibetan unrest. The
tactic has won the government public support, with many  people condemning the
western media's "biased reports".

News groups  - including Xinhua, China Central Television and the
English-language China Daily - ran reports  detailing what they called factual
errors by  the BBC, CNN, Fox News and The Washington Post.

The mainland reports used elaborate charts to demonstrate how the BBC had run
an online photograph of an ambulance with a caption describing it as a police
vehicle involved in the crackdown on rioters in Lhasa.

China Daily accused The Washington Post of running  an online photograph showing
Nepali police clashing with Tibetan protesters in Kathmandu with a caption
stating  they were Chinese police in Lhasa.

An unidentified female Chinese diplomat  accused the Dalai Lama, a Nobel Peace
Price laureate, of having  had close ties to the Nazi regime before the second
world war,  Kyodo  said.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              June 6, 2008 Friday

Monks held over alleged bombings;
'Dalai clique' blamed for inciting attacks

BYLINE: Josephine Ma in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 579 words


Beijing yesterday announced it had arrested 16 people, most of them Tibetan
Buddhist monks, accused of three bombings in Tibet  in April.

The announcement was made at a sensitive time ahead of the seventh round of
talks to be held between central  government representatives and envoys of the
Dalai Lama, and a day after a prayer ceremony by the Dalai Lama and his cabinet
for Chinese earthquake victims.

According to Xinhua, the three blasts were planned and carried out between April
3 and April 15 in Changdu  prefecture, also known in Tibetan as Chamdo or Qamdo.

The arrests came on May 12 and 13, but Xinhua did not explain why it took almost
a month to publicise the news. The news agency also did not release photographs
or other proof of the attacks.

Xinhua also did not report if there were casualties, but blamed the "Dalai
clique" for inciting the monks to carry out bombings to "echo" the March 14
riots in Lhasa  and other Tibetan-populated areas.

It said the suspects listened to overseas radio broadcasts  and "bought into the
Dalai clique's propaganda and incitement of ethnic separatism".

In the first incident, five monks from Wese Monastery allegedly bombed the
Mangkam county power transformer on April 5. They were arrested on May 13.

On April 8, four monks from Kebalong Monastery fled after allegedly setting off
a home-made bomb near the barracks of the paramilitary People's Armed Police,
Xinhua said.

They had allegedly planned bomb attacks at a petrol station and a police
premises the previous day but had failed. One of the suspects, Tashi Tsering,
was arrested on May 12, while three others were on the run.

In the third case, two men allegedly instructed four monks from Kebalong
Monastery to bomb a Tibetan home. The four monks were arrested on May 12. Xinhua
did not give details about the other six in custody.

In a separate commentary, Xinhua accused the "Dalai clique" of being the "chief
culprit" behind the bombings.

"The suspects in the three cases are all monks from monasteries and they have
been incited by the separatist thoughts of the Dalai clique for a prolonged
period," Xinhua said. "The bombings aimed to echo the beating, smashing, and
looting in Lhasa  on March 14 and the Dalai clique is the chief culprit in the
three bombings."

Eastern Tibet's Changdu prefecture has long been  an anti-Han Chinese
stronghold and many of the March 14 rioters came from there, according to Lhasa
residents.

Also yesterday, Xinhua published  a commentary entitled "Why does the Dalai Lama
feel helpless".

The article challenged an earlier remark by the Dalai Lama that he was
frustrated because his "middle way policy" of not seeking independence had not
been supported by all Tibetans and repeated rhetoric which accused the Dalai
Lama of being a feudal lord.

Yesterday,  Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang   said  Beijing had yet to
decide the date of talks with Dalai Lama envoys. But he reiterated that  he must
abandon attempts to sabotage the Beijing Olympics, seek independence and incite
violence, claims that the Dalai Lama has rejected repeatedly.

When asked why Tibet was still deemed unsafe for foreign reporters three months
after the riots and whether China was able to ensure stability within its
border, Mr Qin said: "If you think China cannot maintain stability within its
border, then you have underestimated China and its people."

He would not give a date about when Tibet would be safe enough for foreign
journalists.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             May 21, 2016 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

Why investors can't ignore what's happening in South America

BYLINE: Stirling Larkin Global Investor

SECTION: WEALTH; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 821  words


For the global investor, the economic outlook in South America appears to matter
more now than at any time since World War II.

Australian companies and investors, either directly or via investment exposure
through ASX companies such as BHP, Alcoa or Newcrest, already actively engage
with the southern continental Americas.

But given the heightened international sensitivity to geopolitical risk during
this stage of the global economic cycle and the flux that both fiscal and
monetary US circumstances have caused, savvy global investors are ever more
watchful of Argentina, Peru, Brazil and Chile in particular.

With much public attention in the US this week to the fiasco in Puerto Rico -
which is now facing a deepening debt crisis by the hour - South America's
importance to the financial markets should not be underestimated or ignored
given the tinderbox of global risk factors.

It has primarily only been "courageous" Australian investment communities who
have either directly or via listed markets, pursued South American plays and for
those who believe all ships rise together and that the US will lift all across
the continent, popular but controversial investment plays have been found via
the NYSE-Arca quoted Global X MSCI Argentina ETF (ARGT: US) or iShares' Brazil
Capped ETF (EWZ: US), to name but two.

Taking a step back and recognising that global markets came into this year
hoping for a shift away from the volatility that characterised the "Rates Riot"
and China retracements of 2015, it is now timely to appreciate where the global
economic status quo sits in relation to South American emerging markets -
sometimes also called "Latam" for Latin America - the trends, valuations and
most importantly of all, risks and contagion factors.

Recognising this goes a long way to explain why Brasil Bovespa (IBOV: IND) and
Argentina Merval (MERVAL: IND) have both been the best EM equity performers
universally since 11 February 2016. Informed global investors -respect the
following: â[#x20ac]¢ Economically, moderate global growth in 2016, falling
slightly to 3 per cent, is the slowest pace since the Great Recession. Recent
data has been mixed, signalling steady but sluggish momentum.

â[#x20ac]¢ Worryingly, US growth has fallen to 1.4 per cent in 2016, after
slumping again in Q1.

â[#x20ac]¢ In the eurozone, growth remains steady near 1.5 per cent.
Nevertheless, momentum should slow slightly after rising to near- cyclical high
in the first quarter, and "Brexit" remains a serious risk factor affecting all.

â[#x20ac]¢ Brazil contrasts with other emerging markets such as South Africa,
Asia or Latin America in that they are only now beginning to tighten monetary
policy. This divergence runs havoc for Latin American credit and bond markets.

â[#x20ac]¢ The spectre of a China hard landing, as well as being a concern for
sharper contraction of domestic Sino demand, dragging down global growth and
potentially bringing about by debt-related stresses, directly affects South
America as commercially these two economies are locked into ever-deeper
financial trysts and co-investments. Despite this global backdrop, within Latin
America, Argentina finally appears to be the one on the right track to
sustainable economic growth.

This is because in less than six months in office, President Mauricio Macri has
removed restrictive regulation on foreign exchange and lending, led a
negotiation with default holdouts that culminated with the largest bond offering
ever from an emerging market and laid out a plan to lower inflation from the
current 30 per cent level.

This should help unlock the potential of a resource-rich economy that once was
one of the five largest in the world. The country is the fifth-largest economy
in the Americas, with the second-highest GDP per capita in Latin America and
enjoys substantial natural resources: considerable oil and natural gas reserves,
including a large, not yet fully explored shale gas and oilfields, as well as a
host of mineral deposits, including gold and -copper and plentiful water.

Given that the Argentine economy experienced a period of strong growth in the
1990s based on policies that pegged the currency to the Greenback, much of the
current economic state of the country can be traced back to the sovereign debt
default of 2001.

With the recent debt resolution, Argentina is set to re-enter the fray and
present savvy global investors fresh opportunities to seek fixed income exposure
to the Americas that is independent of NAFTA, which unite Canada, US and Mexico
into a single bloc.

Nothing about either the global economy or South America presents as clear cut
or straight forward at the moment and, most importantly, Australian global
investors cannot ignore developments on the southern half of the world's most
influential financial continent. Watch this space.Larkin Group is an ultra high
net worth wealth team focusing on high yielding global investments.
stirling.larkin@larkingroup.com.au

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Hu quits G8 summit to deal with Uyghurs; Unrest at home embarrasses Chinese
leader abroad

BYLINE: Aileen McCabe, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 527  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


Heavily armed soldiers and riot police dealt with a myriad of skirmishes and
bloody scuffles Wednesday as they kept the lid on ethnic violence in Urumqi, but
visibly failed to diffuse the tension after three days of ethnic riots that have
left 156 dead and more than 1,000 wounded.

Chinese President Hu Jintao cut short his official visit to Italy and cancelled
his appearance at the G8 summit to fly home to take control of the situation
that has pitted ethnic Uyghurs against the majority Han Chinese population in
the capital of the restive Xinjiang province.

The unprecedented situation of having unrest at home interfere with Hu's foreign
agenda will be seen as an embarrassment to the Chinese leader, but the situation
in Urumqi is volatile and no important decision can be made by the Communist
Party politburo without him at the table. He needs to be in China and ready to
act if Urumqi erupts again.

His presence, however, only serves to underline for the world how seriously his
government sees the unrest.

On the streets in the regional capital, rival protesters clashed verbally across
barricades at several points and a few times managed to mix it up physically
Wednesday, but for the most part security forces in riot gear and some carrying
rifles with fixed bayonets, kept the warring sides apart.

People were taken aback by the sheer number of military reinforcements that were
put on the streets overnight and by the constant hum of the helicopters that
were for the first time patrolling the skies overhead.

At a press conference, Li Zhi, the Communist Party chief in Urumqi, added to the
deterrent factor, telling a press conference: "Those who brutally killed in the
incident, we will sentence them to death."

Urumqi airport bore testimony to the violence that has wracked the desert city
since Sunday. It was crowded with people looking to find any flight to safety.
The official Xinhua News Agency quoted one traveller saying: "We fear Xinjiang
is not safe anymore."

Urumqi, a city of 2.3 million, has a majority Han population, but
Turkic-speaking Muslims, known as Uyghurs, account for 45 per cent and crowd the
bottom rungs of the social and economic ladder. It was their peaceful
demonstration protesting police inaction over the death of two Uyghur workers in
southern China that lit the tinderbox in Urumqi and sparked Sunday's riot. At
least, that is the Uyghur side of the story.

The Chinese government maintains foreign agitators led by 62-year-old
businesswoman Rebiya Kadeer, exiled leader of the World Uyghur Congress,
"masterminded" the unrest in a bid to split China.

The two sides also disagree on what happened Sunday night, specifically how the
march got so out of control that 156 people died.

Indeed, even the death toll is in dispute. Chinese officials say it comprises
mostly Han Chinese killed by the Uyghur mob and police say they have rounded up
1,434 "suspects" so far.

Uyghur groups challenge the death count, however, claiming it could be as high
as 400 and saying the majority are Uyghurs, killed by security forces and the
Han Chinese.

Around the world, governments have urged Beijing to exercise restraint with the
protesters.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Nir Elias, Reuters; An ethnic Uyghur carries a shield and stick as
he walks around his neighbourhood in Urumqi in China's Xinjiang Autonomous
Region on Wednesday. Riot police have clamped down on the city after several
days of ethnic violence has left more than 150 people dead. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Chinacrowdsblamechiefforattacks; Thousands protest syringe stabbings, call for
region's Communist leader to step down

BYLINE: Aileen Mccabe, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 703  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


A spate of random stabbings using syringes has sparked a new round of mass
demonstrations in China's restive Xinjiang region and prompted calls for the
resignation of the area's Communist party chief.

"Resign Wang Lequan. The government is useless," protesters yelled in the
regional capital Urumqi, the scene of 197 deaths and about 1,700 injuries during
ethnic riots in early June.

At least 2,000 people gathered near central People's Square on Thursday to
demand better police protection after at least 400 unexplained syringe stabbings
reignited widespread fear that had only just begun to subside two months after
the deadly riots.

The official news agency Xinhua also reported two other large demonstrations
near the city's major market buildings that it said started mid-morning after a
five-year-old girl was attacked with a needle.

Many of the nearby market shops were locked up tight throughout the protests,
likely fearing a repeat of the looting and burning they suffered in June, but
Xinhua insisted it was because the owners "feared there would not be much
business during the day."

The new agency made a point of noting that "members of the Uyghur ethnic group
were also among the protesting crowds," but not all the eyewitnesses agreed.

Mu Dianping, a Han Chinese who teaches at the Xinjiang Arts Institute, said in a
telephone interview that the protesters in central Urumqi that he saw on his way
to school in late afternoon "were all Han Chinese."

"They were not from other ethnic groups," he said.

Mu said armed police were evident everywhere in the downtown area and that
martial law was imposed soon after he arrived at school and no one was allowed
to leave.

Mu called the situation "quite tense," but said he did not see any violence nor
had he heard of any beyond the needle stabbings.

The riots in June pitted young Uyghurs, Muslims of Turkic extraction, against
Han Chinese, the majority group in China, and left a legacy of deep distrust in
the city they share with myriad small ethnic groups. Likely because of that, no
one has yet confirmed whether it is Uyghurs who are responsible for this week's
syringe stabbings.

Xinhua said 15 people were detained and four arrested in connection with the
attacks, but it did not say what ethnic group they belonged to. It reported,
however, that Zhu Hailun, head of the Political and Legal Affairs Commission of
the Xinjiang Communist Party, said the stabbing victims came from nine different
ethnic groups, including Han Chinese, Uyghur, Hui, Kazak and Mongolian.

At least 475 people--mostly Han Chinese--have been stabbed so far, according to
Xinhua, but some reports say up to 1,000 people have been jabbed with syringes
and that many did not even know it until the perpetrators ran away. The deputy
director of the Xinjiang Health Department said no one has been infected by the
needle attacks.

The riots in June erupted when a peaceful demonstration by young Uyghurs
protesting the death of one of their brothers during a brawl with Han workers at
a south China factory ran into heavy police resistance and turned ugly. The mob
went on a rampage against the Han Chinese community. It took two days, for the
Han to retaliate, but the police were ready for them and their revenge attacks
were short-lived.

More than 200 people, mostly Uyghurs, have been charged in connection with the
June riots, but none has been brought to trial yet. Some witnesses said
Thursday's demonstrations were also prompted by how slow--by Chinese standards
--justice is being served and that they blame Communist party chief Wang for
that.

Beijing accused exiled Uyghur Rebiya Kadeer, president of the World Uyghur
Congress, of "masterminding" the June riots in a bid to split the resource rich
Xinjiang region from China.

Its often rabid denunciations of the 62-year-old grandmother who few had ever
heard of before has catapulted her to the position of international spokesperson
for China's Uyghurs. Only this week she testified before a committee of the
European Parliament and pleaded with Beijing for a face-to-face meeting.

Xinjiang government representative Hou Hanmin was quoted in the Global Times
responding that "Kadeer is not eligible to talk with the Chinese government."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Reuters; Paramilitary police in riot gear block a road at the centre of
Urumqi in China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region on Thursday. A new round of unrest
broke out in Xinjiang on Thursday, as protesters took to the streets to
demonstrate against a series of reported syringe attacks in the regional
capital, witnesses said. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 2004, Thursday

FOOTBALL: CHINA VICTORY ENDS IN TEARS AND EXIT

BYLINE: JOHN NISBET Chinese fans cry after the 7-0 defeat of Hong Kong in
Guangzhou yesterday. The margin of victory was not enough to prevent China's
elimination from the 2006 World Cup. Kuwait, who beat Malaysia 6-1, won the
group on goals scored by one goal Bobby Yip/Reuters

SECTION: Final Edition; SPORT; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 413 words


A MISSED penalty meant that China suffered a heartbreaking exit from the Asian
qualifiers for the 2006 World Cup yesterday despite thrashing Hong Kong 7-0 at
home.

Kuwait beat Malaysia 6-1 in the other Group Four match to advance to next year's
final round of qualifiers on goals scored after both teams finished with 15
points from six games. The winners of each of the eight Asian groups advance to
next year's qualifiers. There are no play-offs.

A 1-0 defeat in Kuwait last month left China's qualification hopes hanging by a
thread. Needing to score two more goals than Kuwait, they almost pulled off an
improbable escape act, but Zheng Zhi's 71st-minute missed penalty may have been
decisive.

Police in Guangzhou had been on alert to prevent possible riots if China were
knocked out. However, after news of Kuwait's victory filtered through to the
crowd of 20,000 in Guangzhou, supporters filed dejectedly away and there were no
initial reports of trouble.

In the European World Cup qualifiers, goals from Adoram Keisi and Avi Nimni
helped Israel beat Cyprus 2-1 in Nicosia to join the Republic of Ireland and
France on eight points at the top of Group Four.

Fulham's Luis Boa Morte and Manchester United's Cristiano Ronaldo both scored in
Portugal's 5-0 rout of Luxembourg in a Group Three qualifier in the
principality. The victory put Portugal top of the group with 13 points from five
matches.

Vratislav Lokvenc and Jan Koller scored in the final minutes to help the Czech
Republic overcome Macedonia 2-0 in their Group One tie in Yerevan.

The Milan striker Andrei Shevchenko scored twice as Ukraine surprisingly
defeated Turkey 3-0 in Istanbul to move clear at the top of Group Two. In other
matches in the group, the European champions, Greece, defeated Kazakhstan 3-1 in
Athens, and Georgia twice came from behind to draw 2- 2 with Denmark in Tbilisi.

The Netherlands eased to a 3-0 win over Andorra in Barcelona to go top of World
Cup qualifying Group One, but Manchester United's Ruud van Nistelrooy, had to
leave the field with a hip injury just after Chelsea winger Cocu scored the
Netherlands' second goal in the 21st minute.

France were held to their fourth consecutive home draw last night as Poland kept
them goalless in a Stade de France friendly. The third consecutive 0-0 in Paris
after World Cup stalemates against Israel and Ireland, brought a disappointing
year to a low-key close for the former world champions.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd


                              134 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 2004, Thursday

FOOTBALL: CHINA VICTORY ENDS IN TEARS AND EXIT FROM WORLD CUP EXIT

BYLINE: JOHN NISBET China's Zheng Zhi (above) shows his disappointment after
missing a penalty during the 7-0 defeat of Hong Kong in Guangzhou yesterday,
while fans (right) react to the realisation that the margin of victory was not
enough to prevent China's elimination from the 2006 World Cup. Kuwait, who beat
Malaysia 6-1, won the group on goals scored by one goal Bobby Yip/Reuters

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 696 words


A MISSED penalty meant China suffered a devastating exit from the Asian 2006
World Cup qualifiers yesterday - despite thrashing Hong Kong 7-0 at home.

Kuwait beat Malaysia 6-1 in the other Group Four match to advance to next year's
final round of qualifiers on goals scored after both teams finished with 15
points from six games. The winners of each of the eight Asian groups advance to
next year's qualifiers. There are no play-offs.

The China coach, Arie Haan, had said his contract would be terminated if his
team failed to qualify but the Dutchman side-stepped the question after the
match. "I hope everything will not be destroyed," he said. "I hope they don't
start again from zero. I'd like to say that the future is there. Don't start
again - go on."

Shao Jiayi and Li Jinyu scored twice but Zheng Zhi missed a 71st-minute penalty
for China, who had made their World Cup finals debut in 2002.

A 1-0 defeat in Kuwait last month left China's qualification hopes hanging by a
thread.

Needing to score two more goals than Kuwait, they almost pulled off an
improbable escape act but fell agonisingly short after captain Li Weifeng's
90th-minute goal.

"The only thing the players didn't do was score even more goals," Haan said. "I
never thought during the match that we were done. You can't."

Police in Guangzhou had been on alert to prevent possible riots if China were
knocked out. In 1985, fans went on the rampage in Beijing after a 2-1 defeat by
Hong Kong cost China a place at the 1986 World Cup in Mexico. However, after
news of Kuwait's victory filtered through to the crowd of 20,000 in Guangzhou,
supporters filed dejectedly away and there were no initial reports of trouble.
China's players were in tears, however, with several sobbing as they boarded the
team bus after the match.

For Kuwait, Bashar Abdullah and substitute Faraj Laheeb scored twice each as
they took control against a poor Malaysia team with five second- half goals.

A crowd of 62,000 saw South Korea, who were co-hosts of the 2002 finals where
they reached the semi-finals, struggle past the Maldives 2-0 but secure a place
in the final stage of Asian qualifiers.

The midfielder Kim Do-heon broke the deadlock with a superb swerving shot from
the edge of the box into the top left-hand corner of the net. Lee Dong-gook, who
had missed a string of chances, made it 2-0 for the home side against the
spirited Indian Ocean islanders after stabbing in a cross 10 minutes from time.

South Korea, who have olayed in every World Cup finals since 1986, finished
Group Seven with 14 points from six matches and cannot be caught by second-
placed Lebanon.

North Korea lost to the United Arab Emirates 1-0 in Group Five. Saeh Obaid's
goal proved the difference, but North Korea had already qualified for the next
stage.

Of the other teams already through, Japan beat Singapore 1-0 to make it six wins
out of six and unbeaten Uzbekistan beat Taiwan 6-1 at home.

The Iran striker Ali Daei passed the 100 international goals barrier as Iran
demolished Laos 7-0 to wrap up Group One. Daei struck four times to take his
tally to 102 international goals as Iran finished top with 15 points. Jordan,
who had a mathematical chance of catching Iran, were beaten 2-0 away by Qatar.

In the European section, Vratislav Lokvenc and Jan Koller scored in the final
minutes to help the Czech Republic overcome Macedonia 2-0 in Group One
yesterday. Lokvenc headed in a perfect cross from Karel Poborsky in the 88th
minute. Koller added the other goal in the 90th with another header from
point-blank range.

Goals from Adoram Keisi and Avi Nimni helped Israel beat Cyprus 2-1 to join
Ireland and France on eight points at the top of Group Four.

Karen Dokhoian's powerful 62nd-minute strike earned Armenia an impressive 1-1
draw at home to Romania. Ciprian Marica had put the visitors in the lead in the
29th minute, beating the offside trap and Armenia goalkeeper Apoula Edel.

Andrei Kariaka scored one goal and set up two in Russia's 4-0 victory over
Estonia in Group Three. Marat Izmailov, Dmitry Sychev and Dmitry Loskov also
scored for the Russians.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd


                              135 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Entertainment listings

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 9236 words


?THEATRE

""Agokwe Waawaate Forbister's queer love story about two teenage boys from
neighbouring reserves. . The Cultch, 1895 Venables St. . Feb. 28-March 2 .
604-6830497, fullcircle.ca.

""Agokwe Waawaate Forbister's queer love story about two teenage boys from
neighbouring reserves. . The Cultch, 1895

""How Has My Love Affected You?

A Family Memoir. Marcus Youssef has a difficult relationship with his mother,
Roleene. When the playwright discovers a storage locker full of her journals, he
begins to delve into her history - and his own. Produced in association with
Neworld Theatre . Revue Stage, Granville Island . Feb. 28-March 23 .
604-687-1644, artsclub.com

""Seussical (The Musical)

Timberwolf Musical Theatre presents this musical based on the books of Dr.
Seuss. . Clarke Theatre, Heritage Park Centre, Mission . Feb. 28-March 2 . $10,
604-864-0220

""Terminus

Pi Theatre presents Mark O'Rowe's nightmarish vision of one night in Dublin. .
Performance Works, Granville Island, 1218 Cartwright St. . Feb. 28-March 17 .
$15-$30, 604-689-0926, pitheatre.com

""Mother Teresa is Dead

Tells the story of a young mother who abandons her comfortable home to work with
street children in India, and what happens when her husband comes to get her
back. By the Bleeding Heart Collective . Pacific Theatre, 1440 W. 12th Ave. .
March 1-23 . $17.99-$29.99, 604731-5518, pacifictheatre.org

""Unforgettable: The Music of Nat King Cole

Actor/singer Don Stewart honours Cole's life during an evening of musical
theatre. . Chilliwack Cultural Centre, 9201 Corbould St., Chilliwack . March 2,
7: 30 p.m. . 604-391-7469, chilliwackculturalcentre.ca

""Extraction

Winner of last year's Rio Tinto Alcan award, Theatre Conspiracy's Extraction is
a documentary theatre show delving into the heart of intertwined cultural
phenomena in China and Alberta. . The Cultch, 1895 Venables St. . March 5-9 .
604-251-1363, thecultch.com

""Four Dogs and a Bone

John Patrick Shanley's darkly funny play introduces us to a quartet of show
business professionals at odds over the fate of a film in production. Presented
by Egg Theatre. . Havana Theatre, 1212 Commercial Dr. . March 7-16 . $20,
brownpapertickets.com, 604-366-3493

""Glendale

Wade Kinley's gutsy new play concerns love, history and the hardened sacrifices
we make in that ever long search for happiness. . Little Mountain Gallery, 195
E. 26th Ave. . March 7-16 . $15/$12, glendale.brownpapertickets.com

""The Girl In The Frame

Intimate Theatre Production presents this quirky, modern musical romance. .
Studio 1398, Granville Island . Until March 2 . $25-$28, brownpapertickets.com,
604-307-9451, intimatetheatreproductions.com

""Murder on the Nile

Metro Theatre presents Agatha Christie's classic mystery set on a paddle steamer
. Metro Theatre, 1370 S.W. Marine Dr. . Until March 16 . $23/$20, 604-266-7191,

metrotheatre.org ""My Funny Valentine

This critically acclaimed, Jessie-nominated play enters the minds of six people
on the fringes of a murder that will forever affect them. Produced by Zee Zee
Theatre . Firehall Arts Centre, 280 East Cordova . Until March 2 . 604-6890926,
firehallartscentre.ca

""Haunted

Toronto-based playwright Daniel Karasik's play explores the territory between
spiritual and earthly wisdom. Presented by Touchstone Theatre Productions. .
Norman Rothstein Theatre, 950 W. 41st Ave. . Until March 3 . $18-$27,
ticketstonight.ca, chutzpahfestival.com

""Holmes & Watson Save the Empire!

The fate of the British Empire lies in the hands of the greatest crime fighting
team in literature in this family-friendly, musical mystery presented by First
Impressions Theatre. . Deep Cove Shaw Theatre, 4360 Gallant Ave., North Van .
Until March 16 . $18/$16, 604-929-9456, firstimpressionstheatre.com

""Liquid

Improvised two-act performance, based solely on audience suggestions and
contributions. Presented by the Windy City Women. . Havana Theatre, 1212
Commercial Dr. . Until March 2 . $12/$10, brownpapertickets.com/event/296597

""Picnic

By William Inge, directed by Bill Dow. Presented by Theatre Program at Simon
Fraser University's School for the Contemporary Arts . Fei and Milton Wong
Experimental Theatre, 149 W. Hastings . Until March 9 . $15/$10, 778782-9561

""The Icebook/Micro Performance Series

A miniature theatre show made of paper and light. An intimate and immersive
experience of animation, book art and performance featuring fragile paper
cut-outs and video projections that sweep you into the heart of a fantasy world.
. Anderson Street Space, 1405 Anderson St., Granville Island . Until March 2 .
$10, 604-684-2622, bocadellupo.com

??COMEDY/CABARET

""Lafflines Comedy Club

Feb. 28: The Shooter Show . March 1-2: Damonde Tschritter . March 3: Fundraiser:
Books for Brooklyn featuring Stand Up for Mental Health . March 7, 21 & April 4:
The Popularity Contest Comedy Competition with host Steve McGowan . 530 Columbia
St., New West . 604-5252262, lafflines.com

""The Comedy Mix

Feb. 28-March 2: Hari Kondabolu . March 7-9: Dino Archie . March 14-16: Lachlan
Patterson . 1015 Burrard St. . 604-6845050, thecomedymix.com

""Yuk Yuk's Comedy Club

Feb. 28-March 2: Tracey MacDonald, Garrett Clark and MC Darcy Michael .
604-696-9857, yukyuks.com

""Vancouver TheatreSports League

A variety of improv shows, including Improv Test Kitchen, Ultimate Improv
Championships, TheatreSports and Scared Scriptless . The Improv Centre,
Granville Island . Various nights and times . vtsl. com

??DANCE

""The National Ballet of China: Swan Lake

Choreographed by Russian ballerina Natalia Makarova, this production showcases
the Company's solid foundation in Russian-style classical ballet. Presented by
Ballet BC. . Queen Elizabeth Theatre, 600 Hamilton St. . Until March 2 .
$55-$100, Ticketmaster, balletbc.com

""Discover Dance! Israel 'Toto' Berriel & Friends

Afro-Cuban dance and music, featuring an ensemble of dancers and musicians
directed by renowned Cuban percussionist/vocalist Israel 'Toto' Berriel. .
Scotiabank Dance Centre, 677 Davie St. . Feb. 28, 12 p.m. . $12/$10,
604-606-6400, thedancecentre.ca

""Motion. Picture

This SFU student dance show is a reflection of the spectrum of relationships and
interactions experienced on a universal level. . Goldcorp Centre, 149 W.
Hastings St. . Feb. 28-March 2, 8 p.m. . $15/$10, sfu. ca/sca

""13th Annual Vancouver International Dance Festival

Features dance companies from New Zealand, Switzerland, Denmark and Canada
informed by techniques and styles as diverse as Butoh and Gitxsan dance. . March
2-23 . $28-$65, 604 662 4966, vidf.ca

""Coastal First Nations Dance Festival

A weeklong celebration of the diverse stories, songs, and dances of the
Indigenous peoples of the northwest coast. . UBC Museum of Anthropology, 6393 NW
Marine Dr. . March 6-10 . moa. ubc.ca/eventtickets

""Retrospective: 25 Years

Celebrates 25 years of Joe Ink choreographer Joe Laughlin's award-winning
creations by revisiting three of his most beloved works: Harold, Billy, Stan and
Jack; Left, and dusk. . Scotiabank Dance Centre, 677 Davie St. . March 6-9, 8
p.m. . $35/$28, vidf.ca/tickets

""Vancouver International Salsafestival

The fourth and final instalment of this festival welcomes the global Latin dance
movement one last time with a sizzling lineup of performances, parties and
workshops. . Westin Bayshore, 1601 Bayshore Dr. . March 7-10 . From $25,
604-558-2400, salsafestival.ca

??GALLERIES

""Amelia Douglas Gallery

Earth Formed Works by Judy Weeden and Ronald T. Crawford . Opening reception
Feb. 28, 4: 30-7: 30 p.m. Runs until April 12 . Douglas College, 700 Royal Ave.,
New West . 604-527-5723, douglas.bc.ca

""Arms and Armour Museum

Vancouver's first interactive museum of European arms and armour. . 412 W.
Hastings . academieduello.com

""Art Beatus

Melt: Winter Group Exhibition. Works by Janice Wong, June Yun, Li Zhong Xiang,
Shyh-Charng Lo and Yuichi Takasaka . 108-808 Nelson St. . Runs until March 15 .
604-688-2633, artbeatus.com

""Audain Gallery

Things Don't Speak Themselves: SFU Visual Art 3rd Year Student Show, March 6-16
. 149 W. Hastings St. . audaingallery. ca

""B.C. Sports Hall of Fame

Exhibits, galleries and interactive displays tell the stories of sport in B.C.
from the early 1800s to the current day. . BC Place, Gate A . 604-687-5520,
bcsportshalloffame.com

""Bau-Xi Gallery

Tom Burrows: The China Effect . Opening reception March 2, 2-4 p.m. Runs until
March 16 . 3045 Granville St. . 604-7337011, bau-xi.com

""Beaty Biodiversity Museum

Natural history museum, including Canada's largest blue whale skeleton . 2212
Main Mall, UBC Campus . 604-8225082, beatymuseum.ubc.ca

""Beaumont Studios

T.A.B. the Wine Bo Providing 30 artists with wooden wine boxes, artist Arne
Gutmann let their imaginations run wild providing them with only one guideline,
'explore YOUR issue' . 316 W. 5th Ave. . Runs until March 14 . 604-733-3783,
thebeaumontstudios.com

""Bill Reid Gallery of Northwest Coast Art

Carrying on 'Irregardless: ' Humour in Contemporary Northwest Coast Art.
Features more than 60 works by 28 Northwest Coast artists, runs until March 17 .
639 Hornby St. . 604-682-3455, billreidgallery.ca

""Burnaby Art Gallery

The Artist Poster Show: Explores the didactic evolution of artist exhibition
posters. . 6344 Deer lake Ave., Burnaby . Runs until April 7 .
burnabyartgallery.ca

""Canadian Museum of Flight

Bringing B.C.'s aviation past into the future. . Langley Regional Airport,
Hangar #3-5333 216th St. . 604-532-0035, canadianflight.org

""Circle Craft Gallery

Group ceramics exhibition in celebration of the gallery's 40th anniversary .
Opens March 1 . 1-1666 Johnston St., Granville Island . Runs until April 9 .
604-669-8021, circlecraft.net

""CityScape Community Art Space

Exquisite Landscape: West Coast scenery by artists Sarah Hill David, Elspeth
Hart, Sandrine Pelissier, Mary Shaughnessy and Camille Sleeman . 335 Lonsdale,
North Van . Runs until March 9 . nvartscouncil.ca

""Contemporary Art Gallery

Recycled Playground: Romanian artist Ciprian Muresan / As It Comes: Raymond
Boisjoly . 555 Nelson St. . Runs until April 7 . 604-681-2700,
contemporaryartgallery.ca

""Deer Lake Gallery

Dreaming of the Present: Solo show featuring work by local artist Ron Sangha. .
6584 Deer Lake Ave., Burnaby . Runs until March 2 . 604-298-7322,
burnabyartscouncil.org

""Douglas Udell Gallery

Erik Olson: Architecture of the Face . 1566 W. 6th Ave. . Runs until March 9 .
604-736-8900, douglasudellgallery.com

""Dundarave Print Workshop + Gallery

The Red Show: Original works featuring crimson, cherry, blush, flame and fire
engine reds . 1640 Johnston St., Granville Island . Runs until March 3 .
604-6891650, dundaraveprintworkshop.com

""Elissa Cristall Gallery

Camrose Ducote: New Work. . Opening reception March 2, 2-4 p.m. . 2239 Granville
St. . Runs until March 30 . 604730-9611, cristallgallery.com

""Ferry Building Gallery

A Visual Language, featuring Jin Hong: Linen and Silk and Eric Goldstein:
Coloured threads, acrylic paint and plaster on canvas . Opening reception March
5, 6-8 p.m . 1414 Argyle Ave., West Van . Runs until March 24 . 604-925-7266,
ferrybuildinggallery.com

""Granville Fine Art

Red: A Group Show. Partial proceeds from all sales benefit the Callanish
Society. . 2447 Granville St. . Runs until March 8 . 604-266-6010,
granvillefineart. com

""grunt gallery

Gutter Snipes I: Cal Lane. An aluminum coated steel sewer pipe that is carved
away into an ornate collage of designs . 116-350 E. 2nd Ave. . Runs until March
23 . 604-875-9516, grunt.ca

""Gulf of Georgia Cannery National

Historic Site Seafood for Thought: Multimedia exhibit explores issues regarding
sustainable fishing . 12138 4th Ave., Richmond . Runs until March 31 .
604-664-9009, gulfofgeorgiacannery.com

""Havana Gallery

Cristina Peori: Denizons and Environs, Objects and Intangibles. Features oils,
acrylics, collage, multimedia and mosaics. . Opens Feb. 28, reception March 3,
4-7 p.m. . 1212 Commercial Dr. . Runs until March 13 . 604-253-9119,
havanarestaurant.ca

""Inuit Gallery

A Colourful Vision: Kenojuak Ashevak, solo exhibit . 206 Cambie St. . Runs until
March 14 . 604-688-7323, inuit.com

""Jacobsen Gallery Space

Film Never Stopped Loving You: A tiny gallery exhibition of film photography by
local Mount Pleasant photographers. . March 9, 7 p.m.-12 a.m. . 256 E. 2nd Ave.
. 778-229-0942

""Jennifer Kostuik Gallery

Ouest: New Paintings by Stephen Hutchings . 1070 Homer St. . Runs until March 31
. 604-737-3969, kostuikgallery. com

""Kariton Art Gallery

Dual Visions: Works in photo art by Phil Dyer and paintings in acrylic by Nasser
Ghaderi . 2387 Ware St., Abbotsford . Runs until March 5 . 604-852-9358,
abbotsfordartscouncil.org

""Maple Ridge Art Gallery

Portable Walls: Mixed media installation by Christian Nicolay and Ya-chu Kang .
11944 Haney Plc. . Runs until March 9 . 604-476-2787, theactmapleridge.org

""Monte Clark Gallery

Solo show of new works by British artist Paul Housley. . 105-525 Great Northern
Way . Runs until March 30 . 604-7305000, monteclarkgallery.com

""Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery

Esther Shalev-Gerz: Brings together key works by the Paris-based artist in the
first solo exhibition of her work to be organized in Canada. . 1825 Main Mall,
UBC . Runs until April 14 . 604-822-2759, belkin.ubc.ca

""Museum of Anthropology

Pleased to Meet You: Potter Gwyn Hanssen Pigott re-assembles objects from the
collection with her own works . TwoRow II by Alan Michelson: Mohawk artist Alan
Michelson's immersive, four-channel video installation, TwoRow II (2005) . 6393
NW Marine Dr., UBC . Runs until March 24 . 604-827-5932, moa. ubc.ca

""Museum of Vancouver

Joe Average: Photographic Exhibition, until June 9 . Sex Talk in the City: An
exhibition dedicated to Vancouver's sexual history . 1100 Chestnut St. .
museumofvancouver.ca

""Nikkei National Museum

Ryoshi - Nikkei Fishermen of the B.C. Coast: Exhibit on the history and
significance of Japanese Canadians in the B.C. fishing industry . 6688 Southoaks
Cres., Burnaby . Runs until May 19 . 604777-7000, nikkeiplace.org

""Or Gallery

After Finitude: Neil Campbell, Hanne Darboven, Nicole Ondre, Cheyney Thompson .
555 Hamilton St. . Runs until April 6 . 604-683-7395, orrgallery.org

""Pendulum Gallery

City: Life. Drawings and paintings by Mark Illing, Jon Shaw and Sean Karemaker
look at various aspects of the contemporary city. . 885 W. Georgia St. . Runs
until March 8 . 604-250-9682, pendulumgallery.bc.ca

""Presentation House Gallery

Current exhibits - Anna Oppermann: Filiations / Marianne We Let's Take Back Our
Space / Andrea Pinheiro: Bomb Book . 333 Chesterfield Ave., North Van . Runs
until March 24 . 604-986-1351, presentationhousegallery.org

""Queens Park Art Gallery

Seasoned Fibres: Donna Polosan - watercolours on paper, canvas and cotton . New
West . March 5-30 . 604525-3244, artscouncilnewwest.org

""Reach Gallery Museum

Cascadia: Group Exhibit / Nests and Trees: Vicky Marshall and Pat Service /
Unintended Consequences - The Extinct Bird Series: Rosa Quintana Lillo . 32388
Veterans Way, Abbotsford . Runs until March 31 . 604-864-8087, thereach. ca

""Republic Gallery

light tender: Solo exhibit by Antonia Hirsch . 732 Richards St., 3rd floor .
Runs until March 2 . 604-632-1590, republicgallery.com

""Richmond Art Gallery

Andante (a walking pace): Works by a collaborative entity of Vancouver-based
artists. . 7700 Minoru Gate . Runs until March 24 . 604-247-8300,
richmondartgallery.org

""Satellite Gallery

NEWS! Photographs from the 1880s to the 1990s from the archives of The Vancouver
Sun and Province newspapers. . 560 Seymour Street, 2nd Floor . Runs until March
30 . 604-681-8425,

satellitegallery.ca ""Seymour Art Gallery

Chameleon: A Polymer Clay Exhibition, until March 2 . Les Manning: Common/
Opposites - works by internationally renowned ceramist, March 5-April 6 . 4360
Gallant Ave., North Van . 604-9241378, seymourartgallery.com ""

""Silk Purse Gallery

Looking from the Outside: Works by painter/print maker Greg Allen . 1570 Argyle
Ave., West Van . Runs until March 10 . 604-925-7292, silkpurse.ca

""Smash Gallery Of Modern Art

Kellie Talbot: American Landscape . 580 Clark Dr. . Runs until March 2 .
604-3534064, smashmodernart.com

""Stewart Stephenson Modern Art Gallery

Vancouver's newest gallery, featuring works by Stewart Stephenson and signature
artists . Sonja Picard: Omnipotent Women of Power, solo exhibit. March 8-31 .
1300 Robson St. . stewartstephenson.com

""Surrey Art Gallery

Three art shows probe the limits of contemporary Canadian ceramic art: The
future is already here / Ornamentalism / Beyond the Vessel's Edge . 13750 88th
Ave. . Runs until March 24 . 604-501-5566

""Surrey Museum

Artifacts, images and displays highlighting Surrey's history. . Current exhibit:
The Vikings: Master Mariners, Traders, Colonists and Artisans, until April 13 .
17710 56A Ave. . 604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

""Tribal Spirit Gallery

Prints, carvings, clothing and jewelry, plus cultural events and tours. . 20435
Fraser Hwy., Langley . 604-514-2377, tribalspiritgallery.com

""Unit/Pitt Projects

Luminous Books, a London-based artist-curated bookshop, will present a temporary
bookshop in collaboration with artist-led feminist book project Owl Cave from
San Francisco. . 15 E. Pender St. . Runs until March 30 . 604-681-6740,
unitpitt.ca

""Vancouver Art Gallery

Hope at Dawn: Watercolours by Emily Carr and Charles John Collings, until May 26
. Art Spiegelman CO-MIX: A Retrospective of Comics, Graphics, and Scraps, until
June 9 . Patrick Faigenbaum, March 9-June 2 . 750 Hornby St. .
vancouverartgallery.ca

""Vancouver Maritime Museum

Tattoos & Scrimshaw: The Art of The Sailor, March 14-Oct. 13 . Going to Sea:
Maritime Art & Material Culture, until March 24 . 1905 Ogden Ave . 604-2578300,
vanmaritime.com

""West Vancouver Museum

Pierre Coupey: Cutting Out the Tongue March 6-April 27 . 680 17th St., West Van
. 604-925-7295, westvancouvermuseum.

ca ""White Rock Museum & Archives

Chinese Legacies: Building the Canadian Pacific Railway . 14970 Marine Dr.,
White Rock . Runs until March 26 . 604-541-

2221 ""Winsor Gallery

Press: Brian Howell's photographic series . Parataxis: New series of paintings
by Charles Rea . 258 E. 1st Ave. . Feb. 28-April 6 . 604-681-4870,
winsorgallery. com

?CLASSICAL/OPERA/ ? CHORAL

""Out For Lunch Concert Series

Clarinetist Gene Ramsbottom and pianist Richard Epp perform the Canadian
premiere of clarinet sonatas of American composer Carl Vollrath. . Vancouver Art
Gallery, 750 Hornby St. . March 1, 12: 10 p.m. . Free for VAG members, or with
gallery admission, 604-662-4700, vanartgallery.bc.ca

""Fanfare!

Vancouver's Christ Church Cathedral Choir and director/organist Rupert Lang
present a concert of works spotlighting the Kenneth Jones' pipe organ and choral
works. . Christ Church Cathedral, 690 Burrard St. . March 2, 4 p.m. . $25,
604-682-3848, bpt.me/329352

""Knigge Piano Competition: Final Round

Pianists from across Canada compete for prizes and a solo recital spot at UBC. .
Barnett Hall, UBC Music Building, 6361 Memorial Rd. . March 2, 9 a.m. . Free,
604822-5574, music.ubc.ca

""Lions Gate Sinfonia: Classical Celtic Crossover

Featuring guest artists from the North Shore Celtic Ensemble. . Centennial
Theatre, 2300 Lonsdale, North Van . March 2, 7: 30 p.m. . $12-$39, 604-9844484,
centennialtheatre.com

""Mass Enlightenment: Laudate Singers

Palestrina to Poulenc, Dufay to Kostiainen: 500 years of praise celebrated by
the voices of Laudate Singers. . March 2, 8 p.m. at St. Andrews United Church,
1044 St. Georges Ave., North Van . March 8 at 8 p.m., Holy Rosary Cathedral, 646
Richards St. . $10-$25, 604-729-6814, laudatesingers.com

""Pacific Baroque Orchestra: Concert III - Purcell & Friends

Marc Destrubé leads the PBO in a concert of sonatas and fantasias by the Henry
Purcell and his contemporaries. . March 2: St. Mark's Anglican Church, 1805
Larch St., 7: 30 p.m. . March 3: West Vancouver United Church, 2062 Esquimalt
Ave., 2: 30 p.m. . $10-$35, pacificbaroque.com

""VSO: Romeo and Juliet

Young conductor José Luis Gómez presides over this concert featuring some of the
best-known pieces from the Russian repertoire, and Chopin's Piano Concerto No.
2, with pianist Dina Yoffe. . March 2: Orpheum Theatre . March 4: Centennial
Theatre, North Van . 8 p.m. . $17-$62, 604-876-3434, vancouversymphony.ca

""Knigge Piano Competition: Winners Showcase Concert

Winners from the Knigge Piano Competition perform. . Barnett Hall, 6361 Memorial
Rd. . March 3, 2 p.m. . $10/$5, 604-822-5574, music.ubc.ca ""New Westminster
Symphony Orchestra:

Classical Pops Concert

Works include Mozart's Impressario Overture, Beethoven's Triple Concerto and
Brahms' Serenade No. 1. . Massey Theatre, 735 Eighth Ave., New West . March 3, 2
p.m. . By donation, 604-521-5050, masseytheatre.com

""Norma

Opera Pro Cantanti presents Bellini's masterpiece about personal and political
betrayal. . Cambrian Hall, 215 E. 17th Ave. . March 3, 7 p.m. . $18/$12,
604-3408545, procantanti.com

""Opera Tea on the Stage

Enjoy arias and excerpts being performed by upcoming stars in an intimate
setting. . Old Auditorium, 6344 Memorial Road, UBC . March 3, 2 p.m. . $20/$15,
604-822-6725, music.ubc.ca

""The Gallery Singers: Bach Cantata Project

Jonathan Quick conducts the Gallery Singers and a company of strings in a
performance of Bach and Handel. . Canadian Memorial Church, 1806 W. 15th Ave. .
March 3, 3 p.m. . $26/$24, 604-2280070, gallerysingers.ca

""Roberto Turrin: Performance Lecture

Italian pianist Roberto Turrin performs piano music inspired by Commedia
dell'Arte, a 'Comedy of Craft' developed in Italy in the 16th and 17th
centuries. . Vancouver Academy of Music, 1270 Chestnut St. . March 5, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604734-2301, vam.ca

""The Dawn of Virtuosity

Trumpet player Kris Kwapis and harpsichordist Mehan Esfahani recreate an event
that sent a shock throughout the musical world in the seventeenth century: a
recital where the trumpet was featured for the first time in history in a
concert performance. . Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club, 3611 W. Broadway . March 5,
8 p.m. . $25, earlymusic.bc.ca

""Musical Mornings: Sarah Hagen & Ken Lavigne

Features pianist Sarah Hagen with guest tenor Ken Lavigne. . Evergreen Cultural
Centre, 1205 Pinetree Way, Coquitlam . March 6, 10 a.m. . $22, 604-927-6555,
evergreenculturalcentre.ca

""Wednesday Noon Hours

Daniel Bolshoy guitar: Michael Karmon: Next Year, Sergio Assad: Aquerelle, plus
works by Barrios, Sainz de la Maza and more. . Barnett Hall, 6361 Memorial Rd.,
UBC . March 6, 12 p.m. . $5 at the door, cash only, 604-822-5574, music.ubc.ca

""Music for Art

Members of Lions Gate Sinfonia perform a special concert inspired by the current
exhibition, Looking from the Outside. . Silk Purse Arts Centre, 1570 Argyle
Ave., West Van . March 7, 10: 30 a.m. . $15/$12, 604-925-7292, silkpurse.ca

""VSO Chamber Players: French Masters

Musicians from the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra perform chamber music by French
composers Poulenc, Debussy and Francaix. . March 7 at 7: 30 p.m., March 10 at 2
p.m. . Pyatt Hall . $35, 604-876-3434, vancouversymphony.ca

??ROCK/JAZZ/ETC.

""Dave Alvin and the Guilty Ones

Legendary roots-rocker, with Marshall Crenshaw. . Vancouver FanClub, 1050
Granville St. . Feb. 28, 8 p.m. . $28/$25, vancouverfanclub.ca

""Funk For Trees

A funky fundraiser for Ramshackle Pictures' new forest documentary, Heartwood.
Features Wood'n'Soo, with the Help, DJ K-Rec, Funk DNA and Midnight Move. . ANZA
Club, 3 W. 8th Ave. . Feb. 28, 9 p.m. . $10, 778-320-8789, ramshackle.ca

""Rangda

Psychedelic noise-rock trio, on tour in support of their latest album Formerly
Extinct. With Blackout Beach and Nurse. . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings .
Feb. 28, 8 p.m. . $13, Highlife, Neptoon, Red Cat, northerntickets.com

""14th Annual Sunday Coffee Concerts

Features performers from across Metro Vancouver and Quebec. . March 1:
Genticorum (folk, Celtic) . March 10: The Karin Plato Quintet (bebop, bossa,
blues) . March 24: The Dal Richards Band (swing, jazz) . Terry Fox Theatre, 1260
Riverwood Gate, Port Coquitlam . 2 p.m. . $6-$12, 604-927-8400,
portcoquitlam.ca/ leighsquare

""Blues Control

American avant-noise band, on tour in support of their latest release, Valley
Tangents. With guests Von Bingen and Dream Salon. . Electric Owl, 928 Main St. .
March 1, 8 p.m. . $14.50, nightheat.ca

""Ernán López Nussa

Cuban jazz pianist, with 'A' Band and NiteCap . NSCU Centre, Capilano
University, North Van . March 1, 8 p.m. . $32/$29, 604-990-7810, capilanou.ca/
nscucentre

""Gender Failure

Original music and words with author Ivan Coyote and musician Rae Spoon.
Presented by the Institute for Gender, Race, Sexuality, and Social Justice. .
Telus Studio Theatre, 6265 Crescent Rd., UBC . March 1, 7: 30 p.m. . Free

""Squamish Music Festival Launch Party

Festival producers will announce the artist lineup for the Squamish Valley Music
Festival taking place Aug. 9 and 10. Features performances by Yukon Blonde and
Diamond Rings. . Commodore Ballroom . March 1, 8 p.m. . $20, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

""The View

Scottish indie rock band. . Media Club, 695 Cambie St. . March 1, 9: 30 p.m. .
$15, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

""We Care A Lot: A Righteous Rock 'n' Roll Benefit

Featuring the Hathaways, Liquor Kings, Orchard Pinkish and guests. Fundraiser
for Community of Care for Survivors of Torture. . WISE Hall, 1882 Adanac St. .
March 1, 8 p.m. . $8, 778-891-5059, survivorsoftorture.com

""Destroy Vancouver V

Experimental music series curated by drummer and composer John Brennan,
featuring noise, drone, DIY, free jazz and noise punk. . VIVO Media Arts, 1965
Main St. . March 2, 8: 30 p.m. . $15, 604-8728337, ext. 3, vivomediaarts.com

""Justin Rutledge

Toronto-based alt-country singer-songwriter. . CBC Studio 700, 700 Hamilton St.
. March 2, 8 p.m. . $20, thefestival.bc.ca

""LeAnn Rimes

American country/pop singer-songwriter. . Red Robinson Show Theatre, Coquitlam .
March 2, 8 p.m. . $69.50-$89.50, Ticketmaster

""Nadastrom

L.A.-based DJ-producer duo, with Dr. Seiz and JP Valde$. . Electric Owl, 928
Main St. . March 2, 10 p.m. . $20, ticketzone.com

""NoMeansNo

Canadian progressive punk rock music group . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings .
March 2, 8 p.m. . $22, liveatrickshaw. com

""The Slackers

Ska band from New York, with guests Heads Hang Heavy and Ivy League Brawlers. .
Korean Hall, 1320 E. Hastings . March 2, doors 8 p.m. . $22.50, Zulu, Highlife,
Red Cat, ticketweb.ca, victoriaskafest.ca

""Why?

American alternative hip hop and indie rock band. With Dream Tiger and guests .
Biltmore Cabaret, 2755 Prince Edward St. . March 2, 7: 30 p.m. . $16, Red Cat,
Zulu, Beat Street, the Biltmore, ticketweb.ca, 604-676-0541, biltmorecabaret.com

""Yemen Blues

21st century brew of Yemenite-Jewish song and poetry, West African grooves and
American jazz, blues and funk . Venue, 881 Granville St. . March 2, 8 p.m. .
$30/$25, chutzpahfestival.com

""Ana Moura

Portugal's brightest star of fado. . NSCU Centre, Capilano University, North Van
. March 3, 8 p.m. . $35/$32, 604-990-7810, capilanou.ca/nscucentre

""Big Bang: Fringe Percussion & Community Ensemble

A work for 9 to 90 percussionists, Alaskan composer John Luther Adam's Inuksuit
will fill the atrium with ethereal and spectacular sounds. . Centre for
Interactive Research on Sustainability, 2260 West Mall, UBC . March 3 . By
donation, newmusic.org

""Psychic Ills

Experimental rock/psychedelic rock band from New York. With Follakzoid (tickets
for the original Waldorf show will be honoured at the door) . Electric Owl, 928
Main St. . March 3, 8 p.m. . Tickets at Zulu, Red Cat, Highlife, nightheat.ca,
604-558-0928

""Swingin' Utters

Punk-rock band from Santa Cruz, California. With Wild Roses . Rickshaw Theatre,
254 E. Hastings . March 3 . $15, northerntickets.com

""Darwin Deez

American indie rock band. With guests Caged Animals. . Fortune Sound Club, 147
E. Pender St. . March 4, 9: 30 p.m. . $13, Red Cat, Zulu, ticketweb.ca

""2 Live Crew

Controversial rap group from Miami with the World Famous XXX Dancers and guests
My!Gay!Husband!, Cherchez La Femme, Too High Crew and the PhonoGraff. . Fortune
Sound Club, 147 E. Pender St. . March 5, (note new date, tickets for the Jan. 23
show honoured at the door) . fortunesoundclub.com

""Voices of the Dark Tour

With Italian gothic metal/doom metal band the Foreshadowing and Death Wolf. .
Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E. Hastings . March 5, 6 p.m. . $35/$30, Scrape,
ticketweb.ca, liveatrickshaw.com

""CMT Hitlist Tour

Featuring Emerson Drive, Doc Walker and guest Aaron Pritchett . Vogue Theatre,
918 Granville . March 6, 8 p.m. . Tickets at northerntickets.com

""Ingrid Gatin

The Accordion Noir radio show presents Winnipeg's siren of the squeezebox,
Ingrid Gatin, with Twin Voices and Zaac Pick. . Railway Club, 579 Dunsmuir St. .
March 6, 8: 30 p.m. . $8, 604-566-4745

""Ross Neilsen

New Brunswick blues rocker. . Bozzini's Upstairs Lounge, 45739 Hocking Ave.,
Chilliwack . March 6, 7: 30 p.m. . $15, 604792-0744, bozzinischilliwack.com

""Sarah Slean

Canadian singer-songwriter takes Sea on the road, performing with Orchestral
Strings. . Rio Theatre, 1660 E. Broadway . March 6, 8 p.m. . $30, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

""Shout Out Out Out Out

Edmonton-based dance punk/electro group. . Biltmore Cabaret, 2755 Prince Edward
St. . March 6, Late show, doors 11 p.m. . $14, Red Cat, Ticketmaster

""Thao with the Get Down Stay Down

From California, alternative folk rock music group, on tour in support of their
latest album, We the Common. With guests Sallie Ford and the Sound Outside. .
Fortune Sound Club, 147 E. Pender St. . March 6, 9: 30 p.m. . $18/$15, Red Cat,
northerntickets.com

""Autre ne Veut

Brooklyn electro-pop musician. With Special Guests Majical Cloudz. . Electric
Owl, 928 Main St. . March 7, 9: 30 p.m. . $12, Red Cat, Zulu, Highlife,
Beatstreet, ticketweb.ca

""Jazz Casual at Hycroft

The Vancouver Women's University Club hosts an evening of swinging jazz,
featuring bassist Jodi Proznick. . Hycroft Manor, 1489 McRae . March 7, 6 p.m.
wine bar and appetizers, 7 p.m. concert . $28/$20, 604 731-4661, uwcvancouver.
ca

""Method Man

American rapper and member of the hip hop collective Wu-Tang Clan. . Commodore
Ballroom . March 7, 9: 30 p.m. . $40, Beatstreet, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

""Sylvia Herold and the Rhythm Bugs

Swing and mid-century pop songs in lush three-part harmony. . St. James Hall,
3214 W. 10th Ave. . March 7, 8 p.m. . $20/$16, Highlife, Rufus' Guitar Shope,
604-736-3022, roguefolk.bc.ca

""The Real McKenzies

Celtic punk. With guests the East End Radicals . WISE Hall, 1882 Adanac St. .
March 7, 9: 15 p.m. . $15, Red Cat, Highlife, brownpapertickets.com, wisehall.ca

""Trust

Toronto-based duo, with Eraas. . Venue, 881 Granville St. . March 7, doors 8
p.m. . $14, Red Cat, Ticketmaster

??JUST ANNOUNCED

""Mason Jennings

American folk-pop singer-songwriter, on tour in support of his latest release,
Minnesota. . Electric Owl, 928 Main St. . March 9, 8 p.m. . $15, ticketweb.ca

""Mötley Crüe

American heavy metal band, with guests Big Wreck . Abbotsford Entertainment &
Sports Centre . April 23, 7 p.m. . $72.95-$92.75, 1-866-977-2372,
abbotsfordcentre.ca

""Hannah Georgas

Juno-nominated pop/rock singer-songwriter. With guests the Belle Game. . Rio
Theatre, 1660 E. Broadway . April 27, 8 p.m. . $22.50, Highlife, Red Cat,
livenation.com

""Kvelertak

Six-piece rock band from Stavanger, Norway, on tour in support of their new
release, Meir. With Cancer Bats and Black Tusk. . Rickshaw Theatre, 254 E.
Hastings . May 5, doors 8 p.m. . $16.50, Zulu, Scrape, ticketfly.com,
Unionevents.com

""Corb Lund and the Hurtin' Albertans

Canadian roots-country singer/ songwriter. . Clarke Theatre, 33700 Prentis Ave.,
Mission . May 11, 7: 30 p.m. . $34.50, Ticketmaster, rockitboy.com

""Stornoway

From England, indie folk band, on tour to support their new release Tales From
Terra Firma . Media Club, 695 Cambie . May 18, 9: 30 p.m. . $15, Red Cat, Zulu,
ticketweb.ca

""Shout Out Louds

Indie rock band from Stockholm, Sweden. . Commodore Ballroom . May 20, 9: 30
p.m. . $22.50, Red Cat, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

""Sigur Rós

Icelandic ambient/post-rock band. . Deer Lake Park, Burnaby . May 27, 7 p.m. .
$55/$45, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

""New Kids on the Block

The Package Tour, with guests 98 Degrees and Boyz II Men. . Rogers Arena . July
10, 7: 30 p.m. . $25-$85, Ticketmaster, livenation.com

""Bruno Mars

Grammy-winning pop artist, on his Moonshine Jungle World tour. With guest Ellie
Goulding. . Rogers Arena . July 20 . Tickets on sale March 1, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

""Rush: Clockwork Angels Tour

Canadian rock band, on tour in support of their latest release, Clockwork
Angels. . Rogers Arena . July 26, 8 p.m. . $40-$116, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

""JAY Z & Justin Timberlake

With more than 23 Grammy Awards, 67 million albums sold and two Emmys combined,
music icons JAY Z and Justin Timberlake hit the road for their Legends of the
Summer Tour . BC Place . July 31, 8 p.m. . $39.50-$250, Ticketmaster,
livenation.com

""Alt-J

From England, indie pop band recently awarded the 2012 Mercury prize, on tour to
support their debut release An Awesome Wave . Orpheum Theatre . Sept. 1, 8 p.m.
. $39.50, Red Cat, Zulu, northerntickets.com, 604-569-1144

??FILM

""DOXA Documentary Film Festival Motion Pictures Film Series: The House I Live
In

Taking a determinedly personal approach to the US War on drugs, Eugene Jarecki
examines this complex issue from multiple perspectives. . Council Chambers,
Richmond City Hall, 6911 No. 3 Rd. . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. . $10, 604646-3200,
doxafestival.ca

""Film Screening: The Fourth Revolution: Energy Autonomy

Documentary film based on the ideas of renewable energy proponent Hermann
Scheer. . Theatre A122b, Langara College, 100 W. 49th Ave. . Feb. 28, 6: 30 p.m.
. Free, 778-918-4915, eventbrite.ca/ event/5337994084

""The Hollow Tree

Documentary about Stanley Park's legendary hollow tree, followed by a Q&A with
director Daniel J. Pierce. . Rio Theatre, 1660 E. Broadway . March 2, 3 p.m. .
$10, 778-320-8789, ramshackle.ca

""Cinema Salon with Bruno Freschi

Once a month a guest is invited to present their favourite film. This month
honoured American architect Bruno Freschi presents The Cook, the Thief, His Wife
and Her Lover. Drinks, snacks and discussion to follow. . Vancity Theatre, 1181
Seymour St. . March 5, 7: 30 p.m. . 604-683-3456, viff.org

""Master Class in TV, Film & Animation Filmmaking

This master class led by Dwayne Beaver is open to the public. . Emily Carr
University, Aboriginal Gathering Place, Granville Island . March 6, 7-9 p.m. .
Free, film.ubc.ca

""Vancouver International Women in Film Festival

Experience a diverse line up of films by established and emerging women
filmmakers from across the globe. . Vancity Theatre, 1181 Seymour St. . March
7-10 . womeninfilm.ca

??FOOD/DRINK

""The 35th Vancouver International Wine Festival

Canada's premier wine and food event is a seven-day festival, serving 1,850
wines from 176 wineries representing 15 countries at 55 events. . Until March 3
. vanwinefest.ca

""Flights of the Round Table

Three-course authentic Jamaican style prix-fixe dinner, plus an Appleton Rum
tasting. Hosted by Trevor Kallies, live reggae music by Mostly Marley .
Lamplighter Public House, 92 Water St. . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. . $40, donnellygroup.ca

""Celebrate Nutrition Month

Registered dietitians will be on-site to help residents make healthier choices,
from shopping and eating smart, to family meal plans and coping with busy
lifestyle . Real Canadian Superstore, 3185 Grandview Hwy. . March 2, 10 a.m.-2
p.m. . Free

""Celebrity Chef Cooking Classes from the Arts Club Theatre Company

Fundraising series features four evenings dedicated to elegant comfort food
paired with B.C. wine presented in private designer homes throughout Vancouver .
March 3, March 11, March 28 . $125 (includes $50 tax receipt), 604687-5315, ext.
248, artsclub.com

""Bartender Appreciation Night

Join local industry barmen to share knowledge and celebrate their profession.
Includes representatives from Auchentoshan single malt whiskey hosting a
sampling event, plus ice sphere carving workshop. . Clough Club, 212 Abbott St.
. March 4, 7 p.m. . donnellygroup.ca

""Kale & Nori: Bittered Sling Bistro Season 3

Food and cocktail pairing competition dedicated to pushing the boundaries of
cocktail craft, hosted by Kale & Nori's mixologist, Lauren Mote and Chef
Jonathan Chovancek. . The Harvest Table at Legacy Liquor Store, 1633 Manitoba
St. . March 6, 7-9 p.m. . $60, legacyliquorstore.com

""Dining Out For Life

Choose from more than 200 participating restaurants and dine out for breakfast,
lunch or dinner while supporting people living with HIV/AIDS. . March 7 .
604-6825992, diningoutforlife.ca

??TALKS/FORUMS

""Memory and Aging

Find out how memory functions and how it changes as we age and get tips for
maintaining and improving your memory as well as advice about when to seek
professional help. . Tsawwassen Library, 1321A 56th St. . Feb. 28, 2-3 p.m. .
Free, 604-943-2271, fvrl.bc.ca

""Sensible B.C.: Public Marijuana Forum

This community panel and dialogue on B.C.'s marijuana policy will discuss
approaches focused on public health and safety instead of criminalization. .
Woodward Building, UBC, Wood 2, 2194 Health Sciences Mall . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604-812-4372

""The Conscious Parent

Learn practical parenting strategies that help change destructive patterns and
allow your children to live in a state of 'being' rather than incessant 'doing.'
. Goldcorp Centre for the Arts, 149 W. Hastings . Feb. 28, 7 p.m. . $40/$30,
604215-2352, dalailamacenter.org

""Vancouver Historical Society Speaker Series: Claudia Cornwall

At the World's Edge - Curt Lang's Vancouver: 1937-1998. Claudia will speak on
the multi-faceted and talented artist, writer and inventor Curt Lang. . Museum
of Vancouver, 1100 Chestnut St. . Feb. 28, 7: 30 p.m. . 604-878-9140,
vancouverhistorical-society.ca

""Arts Last Lecture: Michaëlle Jean

Lecture by Michaëlle Jean, former Canadian governor general and
commander-in-chief. Presented by the Arts Undergraduate Society of UBC
Vancouver. . Chan Centre, 6265 Crescent Rd., UBC . March 1, 8 p.m. . $13-$25,
Ticketmaster ""What Makes Good Government?

Preston Manning knows Canadian politics. Join him as he delivers a frank
critique of the current Canadian political system. . Four Seasons Hotel, 791 W.
Georgia St. . March 1, 12 p.m. . $69, 604688-0221, ext. 578

""A Penny for Your Thoughts: Changing Coins in a Changing Culture

Lecture explores the intersection between coins and culture, from idioms and
proverbs to superstitions and ordinary everyday behaviour. . Surrey City Central
Library, 10350 University Dr. . March 2, 1: 30-3 p.m. . Free, 778-782-9480,
sfu.ca/continuing-studies ""Imagine Surrey: Urban Planning for a New Downtown

Features architectural models, development renderings, community exhibitors,
mini lectures by experts and a broad array of information on the new Downtown. .
City Centre Library, 10350 University Dr. . March 2, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. . Free,
604-598-7426, surreylibraries.ca

""How Laughter Created the World

Stand-up comedian Christopher Molineux has worked with Olympic torch teams,
Jerry Seinfeld and Ellen DeGeneres. In preparation for his upcoming TED talk, he
will discuss the influence of humour on intelligence, society and a positive
future. . West Van Memorial Library, 1950 Marine Dr. . March 4, 7 p.m. . Free,
604-925-7409, westvanlib.ca

""Learning to Eat Healthy: Alive on Raw Learn how you can be healthier and feel
more alive by eating raw foods at this presentation with author and certified
Personal Energy Coach, Deborah Rossouw. . Lynn Valley Main Library, 1277 Lynn
Valley Rd., North Van . March 6, 7 p.m. . Free, registration required,
604984-0286, ext. 8144, nvdpl.ca

""Vessels Under Fire: Witnessing Transformations in Clay

Join artist Diana Smith for a discussion about art and activism in conjunction
with her photographic exhibition The Memory Cup Project: This, Too, Will Pass. .
Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 6, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604-331-4044, vpl.ca

""VSO Chamber Players Artist's Corner Lecture/Demonstration

Go inside a piece of music, with the performers as your tour guides, in this
interactive lecture and demonstration focusing on a piece of chamber music. .
VSO School of Music, 843 Seymour St. . March 6, 6 p.m. . $22.50, 604-915-9300,
vsoschoolofmusic.ca

""PEP Talks

Four thought-provoking evenings featuring some of the top thinkers on the issues
every parent faces today. Proceeds benefit the Vancouver International
Children's Festival. Speakers include Lenore Skenazy, March 7 . Sheryl
Feinstein, April 10 . Deborah MacNamara, May 15 . Lisa Bloom, June 12 .
Vancouver Playhouse, 600 Hamilton . 7: 30 p.m. . $35, 604-708-5655,
PEPTalkSeries.com

??GALAS/FUNDRAISERS

""10th Annual Successful You Awards Ceremony

Join top business owners, industry execs, media and government officials who
will gather to celebrate their passionate about business. . Pan Pacific
Vancouver, 300-999 Canada Plc. . Feb. 28, 5: 30-9 p.m. . $49, 604-775-6255,
sya2013.eventbrite. com

""2013 Scotiabank Bowl for Big Brothers

Have fun and help kids in the community by participating in this '80s-themed
charity fundraiser. Bowl as a team of five or as an individual. . Various Metro
Vancouver locations . March 1-April 15 . 604-876-2447, ext. 244,
bowlforbigbrothers.com

""Sweet Temptations

A night of delectable treats and musical beats to support the Sarah McLachlan
School of Music. . CocoaNymph East, 4 W. 7th Ave. . March 1, 7 p.m. . $35, http:
// on.fb.me/XoQ94Q

""Books for Brooklyn

Stand up for Mental Health founder David Granirer and his cast of comedians are
donating their talents to raise funds for Patrick S. Daily School in Brooklyn
that was flooded during Hurricane Sandy. . Lafflines Comedy Club, 530 Columbia
St., New West . March 3, doors 7 p.m. . $20, lafflines.com, Diane: 778869-8964,
artfulawareness.org

""Power of Movement 2013

Canada's largest yoga fundraiser, with proceeds benefiting the Arthritis
Research Foundation . Creekside Community Centre, 1 Athletes Way . March 3, 11
a.m. . $20 registration fee, 604-836-0803, powerofmovement.ca ""Ladies
Leadership Luncheon with Premier Christy Clark and MC Pamela Martin

Fundraising event to help promote female leadership. . The Fairmont Pacific Rim,
1038 Canada Plc. . March 4, 11: 30 a.m.-1: 30 p.m. . $85,
ladiesleadershipluncheon.eventbrite.ca

""Wear Else Spring 2013 Runway Show

Wear Else makes its Spring 2013 debut, showcasing new contemporary lines.
Admission includes wine, nibbles and 20% off purchases with proceeds going to
B.C. Women's Hospital. . Wear Else, 2360 W. 4th Ave. . March 6, 6: 30 p.m. .
$40, 604-732-3521, wearelse.com

""IMPACT: An Event for Change

Dress for Success Vancouver's 14th annual fundraiser brings together more than
250 of Vancouver's most influential community supporters for an evening of
philanthropy, networking and entertainment. . Rosewood Hotel Georgia . March 7,
6-9 p.m. . $125, includes $75 tax receipt, 604-408-7923,
dfsvancouver.org/impact/

??KIDS/FAMILY

""Fantastic Fossils

Explore what fossils are, the ways they form and how to find them. Then cast a
plaster fossil to start your own fossil collection. For ages 3-6 . Surrey
Museum, 17710 56A Ave. . March 1, 10: 30 a.m.-12 p.m. . $10.25, Register at
604-592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

""VSO: Gallop & Go!

Let Your Music Shine! With children's entertainers Lisa & Linda. Listen to trail
songs by Rossini and Grofe while you travel on your pony, with music played by a
clarinet, French horn and bassoon. . March 1, 10 a.m. OR 11: 30 a.m. Playhouse .
March 2, 10 a.m. OR 11: 30 a.m., Terry Fox Theatre . $15/$7, 604-876-3434,
vancouversymphony.ca

""Family Day at the Farm: Classic Stories

Drop in to the farmhouse and enjoy simple, family-friendly tours and activities
to celebrate classic stories like Cinderella and Red Riding Hood. . Historic
Stewart Farm, 13723 Crescent Rd., Surrey . March 2, 12-4 p.m. . By donation,
604592-6956, surrey.ca/heritage

""Family FUSE: Into the Frame

Join artists, musicians, performers and educators as they take you on a journey
of creativity inspired by the gallery's new exhibit Art Spiegelman CO-MIX. .
Vancouver Art Gallery, 750 Hornby St. . March 2 and 3, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. .
vanartgallery.bc.ca

""Live Owl Show

Meet live owls and investigate their unique nocturnal adaptations. Presented by
educators from the Orphaned Wildlife Rehabilitation Society. . Richmond Nature
Park, 11851 Westminster Hwy., Richmond . March 3, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. . By donation,
604-718-6188, richmondnatureparksociety.ca

""The Cat In The Hat

The National Theatre of Great Britain's innovative adaptation of the beloved Dr.
Seuss classic. For Ages 3 and Up. . Waterfront Theatre, Granville Island . Until
March 31 . $15-$29, 604-685-6217, carouseltheatre.ca

??OUTDOORS/FITNESS ""2nd Annual West Van Run

A 5km & 10km, run/walk that brings community together and promotes an active
lifestyle. Partial proceeds benefit the Special Olympics North Shore. . March 3,
8: 30 a.m. . westvanrun.com

""Climb the Wall: The Stairclimb for Clean Air

It's no walk in the park. It's 48 thigh-burning stories skyward in support of
lung health. Proceeds benefit the B.C. Lung Association. . Sheraton Vancouver
Wall Centre Hotel, 1088 Burrard St. . March 3, 8: 30 a.m. . $25, plus $125
fundraising, 604-731-5864, stairclimb.ca

""Trail Troupers: Nature Walks for Kids

Pacific Spirit Park Youth Committee offers free nature walks for kids (must be
accompanied by a parent) . Pacific Spirit Regional Park . Until May 18, 10-11
a.m. . Free, For meeting spots visit: ow.ly/ gpkEO

?TRADE SHOWS/ ? SHOPPING

""B.C. Boat & Sportsmen, B.C. Hunting Show

Features displays and seminars for the outdoor enthusiasts including expert
presentations, demos, entertainment and prizes. . Tradex, Abbotsford . March 1-3
. $8-$12, squarefeetevents.ca

""West Coast Women's Show

The largest women's consumer event in Western Canada, featuring celebrities,
fashion, food, decor, health and wellness, fitness and a wide variety of
products and services. . PNE Forum . March 1-3 . $4-$10, westcoastwomen. net

""The Outdoor Adventure & Travel Show

Explore B.C.'s largest adventure and travel show offering pre-season deals on
the newest outdoor gear and travel destinations. . Vancouver Convention Centre .
March 2-3 . $12/$10, outdooradventureshow.ca

""Fraser Valley Wedding Festival

Features more than 40 wedding specialists, an interactive fashion show, prizes
and more. . Cascades Casino: The Coast Hotel & Convention Centre, 20393 Fraser
Hwy., Langley . March 4, 4-8 p.m. . $5, fraservalleyweddingfestival.com

??LITERARY

""A Search for Love, Family and Forgiveness

Author May Q. Wong will read from A Cowherd in Paradise: From China to Canada,
the true story of married couple forced to live apart for 25 years because of
Canada's exclusionary immigration laws. . Richmond Public Library, Brighouse
Branch, 7700 Minoru Gate . March 1, 2-3 p.m. . yourlibrary.ca

""Tamara Veitch and Rene DeFazio

Seminar, discussion and book signing with Tamara Veitch and Rene DeFazio,
authors of One Great Year. Topics include ancient wisdom, synchronicity and
reincarnation. . Utopia, 1826 Lonsdale Ave., North Van . March 2, 7 p.m. .
onegreatyear.com

""Free Creative Writing Class/Present Perfect: Writing from the Now

Author Marni Norwich offers a free creative writing class. . The Prophouse, 1636
Venables St. . March 3, 2: 30 p.m. . Free, 604-215-1202, inkcatmedia.com/
lateralmusings/

""Poetic Justice

Open mike session plus featured poets Taryn Hubbard, Renee Sarojini Saklikar and
Kevin Spenst, with host Alan Hill. . Heritage Grill, 447 Columbia St., New West
. March 3, 3-5 p.m. . poeticjustice. ca

""Self-Publishing Fair

Day of presentations and panel discussions for anyone looking for information
about the ever-changing world of self-publishing. . Vancouver Public Library,
Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 3, 10 a.m.-4: 30 p.m. . Free,
604-331-4044, vpl.ca

""Getting Started in Children's Books

Join six professional children's authors and illustrators to find out how they
built their careers. . Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia
St. . March 4, 7 p.m. . Free, 604-3314044, vpl.ca

""Vancouver Noir: Murder, Corruption and Crime in the Terminal City

Join authors Diane Purvey and John Belshaw as they discuss Vancouver's gritty
underbelly in the 1930s to 1960s and their book Vancouver Noir: 19301960 .
Vancouver Public Library, Central Branch, 350 W. Georgia St. . March 5, 7 p.m. .
Free, 604-331-3716, vpl.ca

""Robson Reading Series: Al Hunter

Poetry reading by Al Hunter from his book Beautiful Razor. . First Nations
Longhouse, UBC, 1985 West Mall . March 6, 6: 30 p.m. . Free, 604-822-6453,
robsonreadingseries.ubc.ca

""Eileen Cook

Author Eileen Cook reads from her latest release, The Almost Truth, a smart,
romantic novel about a teenage con artist who might be in over her head. .
Vancouver Public Library, Britannia Branch, 1661 Napier St. . March 7, 10 a.m. .
Free, 604-3314044, vpl.ca

""Poets and The Social Self: Vancouver

Join Wayde Compton, Joanne Arnott and Michael Turner with Renee Sarojini
Saklikar. . Goldcorp Centre, 149 W. Hastings St. . March 7, 7-9 p.m. . Free,
sfuwoodwards.ca

""Page Turners

Offers adults with differing abilities a weekly opportunity to read and learn
together and talk about books in a relaxed community setting. . Ladner Pioneer
Library, 4683 51st St., Delta . Tuesdays, 1-2 p.m. . 604-943-2271, fvrl. bc.ca

""Irish Poetry Nights

Proprietor Jack Sixsmith leads this poetry evening dedicated to Irish poet
Patrick Kavanagh . Third Wednesday of each month . Slainte By The Pier
Gastrobar, Marine Drive, White Rock . 7: 30 p.m. . 604-542-3667

""New West Library: Book Club Café

New drop-in book club. . New Westminster Public Library, 716 6th Ave. . The
fourth Saturday of the month, 11 a.m.-12: 30 p.m. . 604-5274667

""Word Whips Writing Series

Writing prompts provided, plus the opportunity for sharing. 10-15 minutes to
write each prompt . Vancouver Public Library, Britannia Branch . Fourth Tuesday
of every month, 6: 308: 30 p.m. . vpl.ca

??MISCELLANEOUS

""24th Annual Festival du Bois

B.C.'s premiere celebration of francophone music, dance, craft, food and
culture. . Mackin Park, 1046 Brunette Ave., Coquitlam . March 1-3 .
festivaldubois.ca

""VanDusen Garden: Annual Manure Sale

Pick up a bag of spring tonic for your garden at this annual sale. . 5251 Oak
St. . March 2, 10 a.m.-3 p.m. . $6/20kg bag, vandusengarden.org

""13th Annual Chutzpah! Festival

Dance, comedy, a silent film screening with live music, theatre and music
highlight this annual festival. Features a wide range of eclectic performances
and workshops by international, Canadian and local artists. . Until March 3 .
$18-$40, ticketstonight.ca, 604-2575145, chutzpahfestival.com

""Talking Stick Festival

20th Anniversary of Full Circle: First Nations Performance. This vibrant
citywide festival provides a stage for Aboriginal artists and includes live
music, dance, theatre, multimedia, storytelling and performance art. . Until
March 3 . $12-$25, opening night gala, $40, fullcircleperformance.ca

NIGHT SPOTS

THURSDAY

Backstage Lounge " The Phonix

Biltmore Cabaret " Baptists album release

Bimini Public House " The Whiskey Songs

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " Itamar Borochov Quartet

El Barrio " Waxwing

Fairview Pub " John Nolan Jazz Ensemble, Brickhouse

Fortune Sound Club " Shlohmo Laid Out Tour with D33J, 8prn, #Basedgoth

Ginger 62 " High Society with DJs Lajit and Goddess

Heritage Grill " Bent Nails

Lamplighter Public House " Rock Steady Thursdays: Mostly Marley Four Year
Anniversary

Library Square Public House " The Damn Fools

Media Club " Data Romance, Evy Jane and Olav (DJ set)

Naam " The Land of Deborah

Railway Club " Rail Entertainment presents

Rickshaw " Rangda, with Blackout Beach, Nurse, V. Vecker Ensemble

Vancouver FanClub " Dave Alvin and the Guilty Ones, with Marshall Crenshaw

Friday

Backstage Lounge " Sljivovica Social Club Balkan Night with Orkestar Slivovica

Bar None " Grand St. Fridays: Chart/remixes with DJs Downlowe, Kidd, Yurie

Commodore Ballroom " Squamish Valley Music Festival Launch Party with Yukon
Blonde, Diamond Rings

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " David Hazeltine

Electric Owl " Blues Control with Von Bingen and Dream Salon, Gang Signs remix
EP release, Fun Fun Fun

Fairview Pub " Blues with Arson Sho-makhov (early), Zeppelina all-female Led
Zeppelin tribute, Spirit Walker Cult tribute, Bull on Parade Rage Against the
Machine tribute (late)

Fortune Sound Club " Michael Red, Lee Spielman

Funky Winkerbeans " Wett Stilettos, Snakebite, Guts & Glory, Sexloader

Library Square Public House " Show Me Love '90s Dance Party with DJ Ana

Media Club " The View

Railway Club " Live Rust Neil Young Tribute, the Twitch, Tongue Rolling Stones
Tribute

Rickshaw " Anciients, with Witch Mountain, Tobeatic, Galgamex, Astrakhan,
Hopeleus

Shine Nightclub " Techno and House, with DJs Kevin Shiu, Ali Sani, Siavash,
Marcello

Woodys " Pop Junkies, DJ Mike

Saturday

Bar None " House and electro with DJs Zak Santiago and SKLA

Biltmore Cabaret " Why? (early), Glory Days (late)

Charles Bar " Off the Radar with rotating DJs: Club hits, Top 40, house, old
school

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " David Hazeltine

Electric Owl " Blkout with Nadastrom, Dr. Seiz, JP Vadle$

Fairview Pub " Big City Soul (early), Still Spirits, Dire Wolves, Jack Singh
Trio, Jesse Lebourdais (late)

Fortune Sound Club " Marlon J English, Jay Swing, Rob Rizk, Tone

Funky Winkerbeans " Anchoress, Joyce Collingwood, Bomb Annabelle, Aviator Shades

Lamplighter Public House " Rock 'n' roll, pop & dance with DJs Antonia and Ana

Library Square Public House " The Affair Dance Party with Ernold Sane & P. Deady

Media Club " Razorian CD release party, Rogues Riot, China Syndrome

Red Room Ultrabar " Atmos

Railway Club " Saturday Roots Jam with the Enablers (early), Cornshed, Whiskey
Chief, Hussein Elnamer (late)

Rickshaw " NoMeansNo, with the Invasives, Ford Pier, Strength of Materials

Venue " Yemen Blues

Sunday

Backstage Lounge " Touch & Feel Africa: Love the Beat, supporting local artists
and education in Africa

Biltmore Cabaret " Kitty Nights Burlesque

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " Victor Noriega & Gust Burns: Two Trios record
release

Electric Owl " Psychic Ills, with Follakzoid

Railway Club " Old Style Pro Jam (early), Craig Cardiff (late)

Rickshaw " Swingin' Utters, with Wild Roses

Monday

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " Blue Mondays with Ken Emerson

Electric Owl " Cheap Thrills Karaoke

Fortune Sound Club " Darwin Deez, with Caged Animals

Railway Club " Craig Cardiff (early), Hard Rock Miners Sing-Along (late)

Tuesday

Backstage Lounge " Live Band Karaoke

Bimini Public House " Beer & Games Night

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " The Dawn of Virtuosity: Recreating the First
Trumpet and Keyboard Recital

Fortune Sound Club " 2 Live Crew, with the World Famous XXX Dancers, My! Gay!
Husband!, Cherchez, Too High Crew, the Phonograff, Blondtron

Hooker's Green " Live standup comedy

Railway Club " Speed Control, Quit the City

Rickshaw " Voices of the Dark Tour with Marduk, Moonspell and Inquisition, with
the Foreshadowing, Death Wolf

Wednesday

Backstage Lounge " Arsenic of Jabir, the Klum

Biltmore Cabaret " Paul Anthony's Talent Time (early), Shout Out Out Out Out
(late)

Bozzini's " Ross Neilsen

Cafe Deux Soleil " Buckman Coe

Cory Weeds' Cellar Jazz Club " A/B Trio

Electric Owl " Elizabeth Fine, Times, Colin Cowan

Fairview Pub " Open Mic Acoustic with Patrick Jacobson

Fortune Sound Club " Theo & the Get Down Stay Down, with Sallie Ford

Granville Room " Bourbon & Beats with the Chaperones

Railway Club " Supper Show (early), Ingrid Gatin 1000 Lives album release, with
Zaac Pick and Twin Voices (late)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / i Theatre presents Mark O'Rowe's hit play Terminus, starring Leanna
Brodie, John Emmet Tracy and Pippa Mackie, at Performance orks, Feb. 28 to March
17.;;  Portuguese fado singer Ana Moura performs March 3 at North Shore Credit
Union Centre for the Performing Arts.;;  Edmonton-based electro-orchestral group
Shout Out Out Out Out makes a splash at Biltmore Cabaret on March 6.;;
Vancouver's Laudate Singers perform works spanning 500 years on March 2 at St.
Andrews United Church and March 8 at Holy Rosary Cathedral.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

NEWS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words


BREAST CANCER RADIOTHERAPY BREAKTHROUGH

WOMEN having radiotherapy for early breast cancer could have fewer hospital
visits to make in the future. Trials involving 4,500 women have shown a lower
total dose of radiotherapy, delivered in fewer, larger treatments, is just as
effective. The decade-long research confirms long-held beliefs of some UK cancer
specialists who have been using shorter treatment for some time. Lead researcher
Prof John Yarnold said: "Shorter therapies giving fewer, larger treatments are
obviously convenient for patients."

DALAI LAMA GETS BLAME FOR RIOTS

CHINA yesterday accused the Dalai Lama of masterminding the riots in Tibet. But
the Himalayan region's exiled spiritual leader rejected the "outrageous" claim
and pledged to resign if the violence got out of control. China's crackdown in
Tibet left an estimated 100 dead.

BIG BAD APPLE..

NEW York's new governor has admitted he and his wife both had affairs during a
rocky patch several years ago. David Paterson replaced shamed Eliot Spitzer.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Narendra Modi most unsuccessful PM, failed to secure borders: AAP

BYLINE: express news service

LENGTH: 391  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


On a day Punjab witnessed the first major terror strike in eight years, which
left seven people, including the three suspected terrorists, dead, the Aam Aadmi
Party termed Narendra Modi as the "most unsuccessful Prime Minister" and charged
him with failing to secure the nation's borders.

"Modi has turned out to be the most unsuccessful Prime Minster when it comes to
securing the borders of our country. Where is his 56-inch chest now and all the
talk of exacting revenge on Pakistan? Pakistan has committed 52 violations along
the border while China has committed 18 such violations ever since he took over
as the PM," said Sanjay Singh, national spokesman of AAP and in-charge of the
party in Uttar Pradesh.

"Why is it so, that such an attack took place in Punjab, which was calm for so
many years? Jammu and Kashmir was calm, too, but Islamic State and Pakistan
flags are being waved now. UP is struck with riots, China has violated borders
in Arunachal Pradesh several times and now this terror attack. You can certainly
fathom how dangerous the communal politics is," said Singh, who is also the
in-charge of Punjab unit of AAP.

Attacking the PM over his silence on the scams, he said, "Be it Lalitgate,
Vyapam or charges against Pankaja Munde, he has maintained his silence. From his
'Mann ki Baat' he has now moved over to becoming 'Maun Modi'".

Meanwhile, in a move to put in place a strong base ahead of the 2017 Assembly
elections, Singh, who is in Lucknow, set November 30 deadline for the party's UP
unit to constitute a 10-member committee in at least 50 per cent of the state's
nearly 1.4 lakh booths.

"Our state and district units have been asked to constitute Vidhan Sabha level
committees by 15 September, block level committees by October 15, and booth
level committees by November 30," he said.

He said that in each Vidhan Sabha, 20-30 sector committees are also to be
created which will then form the booth committees. Further, the district units
can constitute cells, such as for minorities and farmers, which will have to be
approved by the zonal unit.

Deoli MLA Prakash Kumar, Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav, Okhla MLA Amanatullah and
Shakeel Ahmed of central unit of the party have also been appointed as
sah-prabhari (assistant in-charge) for UP who will have the responsibility for
different zones of the party, in UP, among them.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

'Free Tibet' activists arrested in Nepal

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 238 words


KATMANDU: Police broke up a small Tibetan protest in Nepal's capital and
detained the protesters yesterday - the anniversary of a failed 1959 uprising
against Chinese rule in Tibet.

The two men and three women waved Tibet flags and chanted "Free Tibet, get out
of Tibet, we want justice" near the Chinese embassy visa office in Katmandu,
before police in riot gear stopped them, loaded them on to a truck and drove
them to a detention centre.

Hundreds of riot police had stepped up security to stop any possible anti-China
protests in Katmandu and attempts by the Tibetan refugees to self-immolate to
protest against Chinese rule over their homeland, police spokesman Ganesh KC
said.

Police in riot gear guarded all the roads leading to the Chinese Embassy and its
visa office in the centre of Katmandu.

Police are also keeping a close eye on Boudhanath in Katmandu where most Tibetan
refugees live. The area has many Buddhist monasteries and shrines and two people
self-immolated there last year to protest against China's presence.

Tibetan refugees in Nepal regularly demonstrate against Chinese rule over their
homeland, but Nepal forbids protests near the Chinese Embassy and key areas,
saying it cannot allow activities against friendly nations.

In the past, Tibetans in Nepal have tried to storm the Chinese Embassy. China
has repeatedly pressured Nepal to stop the protests. Protesters are usually
detained for few hours. - Sapa-AP

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Decades after call for reform, Tibet remains in crisis

BYLINE: John Garnaut

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; International News; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 964 words


The response of Chinese leaders is to tighten hardline policies further, writes
John Garnaut. Thirty years have passed since the reformist Communist Party
general secretary Hu Yaobang - the most important mentor of the present party
boss, Hu Jintao - climbed to the roof of the Dalai Lama's Potala Palace, looked
out at lavish government buildings in poverty-stricken Lhasa and resolved to
turn his government's hardline policies upside down. He lambasted the local
cadres for perpetuating ethnic Han chauvinism and continuing the "ultra-leftist"
policies of the Cultural Revolution, such as demonising the Dalai Lama. He
sacked the local party boss, ordered that thousands of Han Chinese cadres be
replaced by Tibetans and issued what the Tibet scholar Robbie Barnett describes
as "perhaps the closest thing in Chinese Communist Party history to a real
apology". "We feel that our party has let the Tibetan people down.

We feel very bad!" Hu Yaobang told Tibetans on behalf of the party's central
leadership, according to a member of his group, Wang Yao, as recorded in the
book Resistance and Reform. "The sole purpose of our Communist Party is to work
for the happiness of people, to do good things for them. We have worked nearly
30 years, but the life of the Tibetan people has not been notably improved. Are
we not to blame?" One of the mysteries of modern Chinese politics is what goes
through the mind of Hu Jintao when as President he honours Hu Yaobang's family
shrine each Chinese New Year. In the nearly three decades since Hu Yaobang's
extraordinary mea culpa, and 21 years since his death, Tibetan living standards
have improved but the political situation remains at crisis point. Two weeks
ago, the head of the party's United Front Department told cadres to appoint only
"politically reliable" monks and require clerics to play a leading role in
"anti-separatist struggles". And Tibetan sources revealed authorities had
secretly sentenced Tibet's wealthiest businessman to life imprisonment, perhaps
relating to a large donation to the Dalai Lama. This week the official Xinhua
news agency belatedly admitted that a "stray bullet" from security forces had
killed a Tibetan protester on the Tibetan plateau, in western Sichuan province,
while Tibetan sources put the death toll at three or four. Visitors today to the
Potala Palace look out over a Han Chinese-dominated business district, a lavish
joint headquarters for the Communist Party and "autonomous" government, and
occasional convoys of heavily armed police. The narrow cobblestone streets of
the old Tibetan quarters crawl with police and their informants. Tibetans are
mostly too scared to talk openly with foreigners, but in dark corners after dusk
many speak of their furious anger towards "the Chinese" as well as a
near-obsessive faith in the Dalai Lama. Formations of police patrols are as much
a source of comfort and reassurance to many Han Chinese as they are a cause of
anxiety and anger for Tibetans. Two years ago, rioting Tibetans filled these
streets with so much fire and blood that many Han witnesses still cannot bear to
speak about it. At least 19 people died. After the riots Zhang Yan shifted her
small cosmetics business from Lhasa to more peaceful Shigatse. "We give them so
many conditions and yet . . . " she said, eyes filling with tears and unable to
finish her sentence. Parts of Lhasa still feel like a war zone but the situation
to the north in Xinjiang is more serious. About 200 people were killed there a
year ago, mainly Han Chinese going about their business but also Uighurs killed
by security forces. In the days after those riots, a Han construction worker
spoke of seeing Uighurs slaughtering Han, "slicing their throats like lambs",
before police opened fire, killing Uighurs. "The Chinese have taken everything
away and left us with nothing," a young Uighur in a restaurant said. "So we
throw rocks and whatever we have in our hands, and they have guns." And yet
these two waves of race riots - China's worst violence since 1989 - were not
accepted as evidence that hardline policies had reached their use-by date, but
that they should be tightened further. The stock response of Chinese leaders and
official scholars is to claim things are fine. "The local, ordinary people love
the country, they love the Communist Party of China," said Tibet's otherwise
urbane and sophisticated deputy party chief, Hao Peng, on a rare foreign media
tour. The bloody race riots are blamed on the exiled Tibetan and Uighur leaders,
the Dalai Lama and Rebiya Kadeer, or on biased Western media, or simply on the
ungrateful character of Tibetans and Uighurs. Tibetans remember Hu Yaobang
fondly, even as a hero. "I admire Hu Yaobang's courage," said the Dalai Lama in
2005. But few Tibetans or Uighurs pause to thank Hu Jintao for anything. A
report by the International Campaign For Tibet, Tibet at a Turning Point, blamed
him for brutal massacres and political repression when he was party boss of
Tibet in 1989. It blamed him for the "hardline policies against Tibetan culture
and religion" that were formalised in 1994 and also for the appointment of
hardliners since. But Hu Jintao is the most opaque of Chinese political leaders
and the truth may be more complicated. Robbie Barnett, of Columbia University,
says that "the unravelling of Hu Yaobang's ideas" over the past two decades is
"fascinating because it seems so unnecessary, so inimical to China's interests,
and because it almost certainly triggered the recent protests". "Why has China
persisted with this lose-lose policy?" he asks. "Perhaps it's because the only
people who do not lose from it are the hardline bureaucrats who run it." On
Monday: the oil industry hardliners behind repressive politics in western China.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Working for "the happiness of the people" . . . Hu Yaobang,
left, with the future leaders Hu Jintao, centre, and Wen Jiabao in 1986.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Chinese leader hurries home; Simmering unrest forces president to forsake
appearance at G8 summit

BYLINE: Aileen McCabe, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI


SHANGHAI -- Heavily armed soldiers and riot police dealt with myriad skirmishes
and bloody scuffles yesterday as they kept the lid on ethnic violence in Urumqi,
but visibly failed to diffuse the tension after three days of ethnic riots that
have left 156 dead and more than 1,000 wounded.

Chinese President Hu Jintao cut short his official visit to Italy and cancelled
his appearance at the G8 summit to fly home to take control of the situation
that has pitted ethnic Uyghurs against the majority Han Chinese population in
the capital of the restive Xinjiang province.

The unprecedented situation of having unrest at home interfere with Hu's foreign
agenda will be seen as an embarrassment to the "face"-conscious Chinese leader,
but the situation in Urumqi is volatile and no important decision can be made by
the Communist party politburo without him at the table. He needs to be in China
and ready to act if Urumqi erupts again.

His presence, however, only serves to underline for the world how seriously his
government sees the unrest.

On the streets in the regional capital, rival protesters clashed verbally across
barricades at several points and a few times managed to mix it up physically
yesterday, but for the most part security forces in riot gear and some carrying
rifles with fixed bayonets, managed to keep the warring sides apart.

People were taken aback by the sheer number of military reinforcements that were
put on the streets overnight and by the constant hum of the helicopters that
were for the first time patrolling the skies overhead.

Li Zhi, the Communist party chief in Urumqi, added to the deterrent factor,
telling a press conference: "Those who brutally killed in the incident, we will
sentence them to death."

Urumqi airport bore testimony to the violence that has wracked the desert city
since Sunday. It was crowded with people looking to find any flight out to
safety. The official Xinhua News Agency quoted one traveller saying: "We fear
Xinjiang is not safe anymore."

Urumqi, a city of 2.3 million, has a majority Han population, but
Turkic-speaking Muslims, known as Uyghurs, account for 45 per cent and crowd the
bottom rungs of the social and economic ladder. It was their peaceful
demonstration protesting police inaction over the death of two Uyghur workers in
southern China that lit the tinderbox in Urumqi that sparked Sunday's riot. At
least, that is the Uyghur side of the story.

The Chinese government maintains foreign agitators led by 62-year-old
businesswoman Rebiya Kadeer, exiled leader of the World Uyghur Congress,
"masterminded" the unrest in a bid to split China.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Nir Elias, Reuters; Ethnic Uyghurs wait with sticks behind a
roadblock in their neighbourhood in Urumqi in China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region
yesterday. At least 156 people have been killed in rioting in the northwestern
region, with the government blaming exiled separatists for the traditionally
Muslim area's worst case of unrest in years. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Chinese nationals in Vietnam flee to Cambodia as anti-China riots turn fatal

BYLINE: Kate Hodaltheguardian.com

LENGTH: 1034 words

ABSTRACT

Multiple reports of casualties as Vietnamese anger over China's expansionism in
disputed seas spills over in attacks on foreign-owned factories

FULL TEXT

Violent reaction in Vietnam to China's expansionist stance in disputed seas has
turned deadly, with multiple reports of people being killed during rioting that
began with attacks on foreign-owned factories.

Cambodia said hundreds of Chinese nationals had poured across the border from
Vietnam to escape the riots.

"Yesterday more than 600 Chinese people from Vietnam crossed at Bavet
international checkpoint into Cambodia," Kirt Chantharith, a police spokesman,
told Reuters on Thursday. Bavet is on a highway stretching from Ho Chi Minh
City, Vietnam's commercial centre, to Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh.

On Thursday the death toll was unclear, although some news agencies reported at
least 20 people had been killed.

A top Taiwanese diplomat said rioters had stormed a large Taiwanese steel mill
in Vietnam, killing at least one Chinese worker and injuring 90 more. Huang
Chih-peng said the violence took place late on Wednesday and early on Thursday
at the Formosa steel mill in central Vietnam.

According to the Wall Street Journal, a Chinese contractor and a Vietnamese
worker died in the violence. China's state-run People's Daily tweeted that 10
Chinese nationals went missing when protesters ransacked a Chinese factory.

A doctor at a hospital in the central Vietnamese province of Ha Tinh told
Reuters five Vietnamese workers and 16 other people described as Chinese died
during anti-China rioting on Wednesday night.

"There were about 100 people sent to the hospital last night. Many were Chinese.
More are being sent to the hospital this morning," the doctor said.

Earlier this week mobs burned and looted scores of foreign-owned factories in
southern Vietnam, believing they were Chinese-run when many were actually
Taiwanese or South Korean. No deaths were reported in those initial attacks.

On Thursday, China's embassy in Vietnam urged the country's public security
authorities to take "effective measures" to protect its nationals' personal
safety and legal rights. The embassy made the remark in a statement published on
its website, adding that China had launched an emergency mechanism to cope with
the effects of anti-Chinese riots in its southern neighbour.

Anti-Chinese sentiment has been running high in Vietnam ever since Beijing
deployed an oil rig into disputed waters in the South China Sea on 1 May. There
have been encounters including ramming and exchanges of water cannon between
Chinese vessels operating near the rig and boats from Vietnam, which wants China
out of the area.

According to the English-language version of the Tuoi Tre newspaper, some 600
people have been arrested in Vietnam's southern provinces, where riots erupted
on Tuesday amid reports of looting and attacks on police officers.

The government has since issued stark warnings to the Chinese that continued
so-called aggression which had to date been met with diplomacy would likely turn
ugly if it persisted.

With reports on Wednesday from the Vietnam coastguard that the Chinese had also
sent two amphibious ships equipped with anti-air missiles to protect their oil
rig, commander Major General Nguyen Quang Dam said it would "make no concession
to China's wrongful acts" and stressed: "Their violent acts have posed serious
threats to the lives of Vietnamese members of law enforcement."

An op-ed piece in the English-language daily Vietnam News was just as
transparent with its words: "The Vietnamese people are angry. The nation is
angry. We are telling the world that we are angry. We have every right to be
angry."

"China should stop violating international law and respect Vietnam's
sovereignty," it continued, adding that China's seeming aggression "smacks of a
bull doing something wrong just because it can".

"Over thousands of years, we have shown that we never cease fighting
aggressors," the op-ed added. "We are proud of our freedom-fighting forefathers
and resistance is in our blood. We are a small country, but we are not weak. We
will stand as one, united in the cause of protecting our motherland's
integrity."

China's foreign minister, Wang Yi, "urged Vietnam not to attempt to further
complicate and aggravate the current maritime friction", the state-run Global
Times newspaper reported on Thursday.

"China's position on safeguarding its legitimate sovereign rights and interests
is firm and clear and will not change," he told Indonesia's foreign affairs
minister Marty Natalegawa in a phone conversation, the Global Times said.

The newspaper condemned the protests in an editorial, calling them "the most
stunning attack [on] foreign businesses in East Asia in recent years".

"The turmoil is the outcome of Hanoi's years of anti-China propaganda," it said.
"Without legitimate grounds and practical capability, Vietnam fabricates and
hypes up its jurisdiction over the Xisha and Nansha islands [AKA the Paracel and
Spratly islands]. This uncompromising stance, in an attempt to bring its people
together, has actually cornered itself."

China's tourism administration has posted a note to its website urging
Vietnam-bound tourists to "carefully consider" their plans.

Taiwan's ministry of foreign affairs plans to print thousands of stickers saying
"I am from Taiwan" in Vietnamese and English and distribute them to local
Taiwanese business owners, to help them avoid the wrath of anti-China mobs. A
ministry spokesperson confirmed the plan, but added that the stickers have not
yet been distributed.

In 2012 Chinese authorities permitted large-scale anti-Japan protests amid
rising tensions between the two countries over competing territorial claims in
the East China Sea. Protesters in cities across the country vandalised Japanese
shops and smashed Japanese-made cars before authorities ordered them to
disperse.

China's propaganda authorities are censoring coverage of the protests, according
to a leaked circular obtained by the online magazine China Digital Times.
"Absolutely do not report on any news related to 'Chinese-funded enterprises in
Vietnam being attacked by Vietnamese,'" it said. "Do not republish foreign
coverage."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              143 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Tibet Erupted, China Wavered

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Zhang Jing, Huang Yuanxi and Chen Yang contributed
research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1775 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


In the chaotic hours after Lhasa erupted March 14, Tibetans rampaged through the
city's old quarter, waving steel scabbards and burning or looting Chinese shops.
Clothes, souvenirs and other tourist trinkets were dumped outside and set afire
as thick gray smoke darkened the midday sky. Tibetan fury, uncorked, boiled
over.

Foreigners and Lhasa residents who witnessed the violence were stunned by what
they saw, and by what they did not see: the police. Riot police officers fled
after an initial skirmish and then were often nowhere to be found. Some Chinese
shopkeepers begged for protection.

''The whole day I didn't see a single police officer or soldier,'' said an
American woman who spent hours navigating the riot scene. ''The Tibetans were
just running free.''

Lhasa is now occupied by thousands of paramilitary police officers and troops of
the People's Liberation Army. But witnesses say that for almost 24 hours, the
paramilitary police seemed unexpectedly paralyzed or unprepared, despite days of
rising tensions with Tibetan monks.

The absence of police officers emboldened the Tibetan crowds, which terrorized
Chinese residents, toppled fire trucks and hurled stones into Chinese-owned
shops. In turn, escalating violence touched off a sweeping crackdown and
provided fodder for a propaganda-fueled nationalist backlash against Tibetans
across the rest of China that is still under way.

''I really am surprised at the speed with which these things got out of
control,'' said Murray Scot Tanner, a China analyst with a specialty in
policing. ''This place, this time, should not have surprised them. This is one
of the key cities in the country that they have tried to keep a lid on for two
decades.''

What happened? Analysts wonder if the authorities, possibly fearing the public
relations ramifications of a confrontation before the Beijing Olympics in
August, told the police to avoid engaging protesters without high-level
approval.

Timing also may have contributed to indecision; Tibet's hard-line Communist
Party boss, Zhang Qingli, and other top officials were attending the National
People's Congress in Beijing when the violence erupted.

The full explanation could take years to emerge from China's  Communist Party
hierarchy. But the Lhasa unrest, not entirely unlike the Tiananmen Square
pro-democracy protests of 1989, may be remembered as much for poor police work
-- faulty crowd control and political indecision followed by a large-scale
response  -- as for the underlying grievances of protesters.

Lhasa now has created far more than a public relations problem for Beijing. It
has unleashed widespread Tibetan resentment over Chinese rule. Antigovernment
demonstrations have spread to Tibetan areas of western China. Military convoys
and trucks of paramilitary police officers are streaming westward to quell the
protests.

International leaders are alarmed at the  violence and have called for restraint
by  China. But domestic opinion is inflamed with nationalist anger as state
television is repeatedly showing images of Tibetans rioting in those early,
unfettered hours.

''Our government should take a bloody suppression on these separatists!'' blared
one posting among the legion of enraged postings on Chinese Internet chat rooms.
''We cannot hesitate or be too merciful, even at the cost of giving up the
Olympics.''

The police hesitation did not last long. The crackdown began within 24 hours, on
March 15. Witnesses described hearing the thud of tear gas projectiles and the
crackle of gunshots as paramilitary police officers  took control of the riot
area. By March 16, the paramilitary police were searching Tibetan neighborhoods
and seizing  suspects. One foreigner saw four Tibetan men beaten so savagely
that the police sprinkled white powder on the ground to cover the blood.

Lhasa's death toll remains in sharp dispute. The Chinese authorities say 22
people died, including a police officer killed by a mob and shopkeepers who
burned to death in the violence.

The authorities also claim security forces did not carry lethal weapons or fire
a shot. But the Tibetan government in exile, in Dharamsala, India, said at least
99 Tibetans have died in Lhasa during the crackdown.  Foreign journalists are
now forbidden to enter Tibet. But interviews with more than 20 witnesses show
Lhasa was boiling with Tibetan resentment even as authorities believed they had
the situation under control. Protests broke out at three monasteries beginning
March 10, the anniversary of the failed Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule in
1959, which forced the Dalai Lama to flee to India.

The police arrested more than 60 monks and confined the rest in their
monasteries. Tibetans say the police also beat monks during peaceful
demonstrations.

James Miles, a Beijing-based reporter for The Economist magazine, had obtained
approval from authorities  for a reporting trip to Lhasa  before the
demonstrations. When the protests started, Mr. Miles wondered if he would be
notified that his trip had been canceled. But no call came. He arrived March 12,
and on March 13 officials took him to dinner, signaling their confidence by
making no attempt to hide the recent demonstrations.

''I was assured that the situation in Lhasa was stable,'' Mr. Miles recalled.

But the next day, March 14, would prove otherwise. At Ramoche Temple, monks left
the monastery about midday to protest and were immediately met by police
officers. Unlike the other monasteries, Ramoche is in the heart of Lhasa's old
Tibetan quarter, so the confrontation attracted a large crowd.

Unconfirmed reports about the earlier protests had been swirling among Tibetans
for days, according to several people, including that monks and Buddhist nuns
had been killed. Many Tibetans were angry when they saw the police clash with
the Ramoche monks. Quickly, the crowd attacked the police.

Witnesses say police reinforcements who arrived with shields and riot gear were
overwhelmed. ''Almost immediately they were rushed by a massive group of
Tibetans,''  one witness said. Police officers fled, and a mob of Tibetans
poured out of the old quarter onto Beijing Road, a large commercial street. A
riot had begun.

Angry Tibetans attacked a branch of the Bank of China and burned it to a
blackened husk. Photos and video images show Tibetans smashing Chinese shops
with stones and setting them on fire. Witnesses described Tibetans attacking
Chinese on bicycles and throwing rocks at taxis driven by Chinese. Later, crowds
also burned shops owned by Muslims.

''This wasn't organized, but it was very clear that they wanted the Chinese
out,'' said the American woman who witnessed the riots and asked not to be
identified for fear of reprisals. She said Tibetan grievances exploded in anger.
Crowds tied ceremonial silk scarves across the threshold of Tibetan shops to
indicate they should not be damaged.

Mr. Miles, the journalist, found himself the only Western reporter on the scene.
He spent the next several hours carefully walking around the old Tibetan quarter
as rioters burned buildings and overturned cars. ''I was looking around
expecting an immediate, rapid response,'' he said. ''But nothing happened. I
kept asking people, 'Where are the police?' ''

Protests are common in China and clashes can occur between demonstrators and
police officers. Beginning in the early 1980s China created a paramilitary
force, known as the People's Armed Police, to deal with domestic unrest and
other crises. Mr. Tanner, the specialist in Chinese policing, said the People's
Armed Police had developed tactics over the years to defuse protests without
resorting to violent crackdowns. But riots of this scale are rare, and if
violence erupts, policy dictates a firm response, Mr. Tanner said.

''There is no suggestion that they are supposed to sit back and let a riot burn
itself out,'' he said.

Tibetans also say the security forces were unusually passive at the beginning.
One monk reached by telephone said other monks noticed that several officers
were more interested in shooting video of the violence than stopping it. ''They
were just watching,'' the monk said. ''They tried to make some videos and use
their cameras to take some photos.''

Ultimately, the man responsible for public order in Lhasa is Mr. Zhang, Tibet's
party chief. Mr. Zhang is a protege of President Hu Jintao, whose own political
career took  flight after he crushed the last major rebellion in Tibet in 1989.

According to one biographer, Mr. Hu actually made himself unavailable during the
1989 riots when the paramilitary police needed guidance on whether to crack
down. The police did so and Mr. Hu got credit for keeping order, but he also
assured himself deniability if the crackdown had failed, the biographer wrote.

Mr. Zhang also has an excuse; he was at the National People's Congress in
Beijing. When the violence started, Mr. Zhang had just completed a  two-hour
online discussion about China's Supreme Court, according to a government Web
site. It is unclear when Mr. Zhang was told of the violence, or if he made the
final decision on how to respond.

But that decision became clear on March 15, the day after the riots. During the
riots, the police were  armed with shields and batons,  witnesses said. But
overnight, the People's Armed Police had  encircled the riot areas. Armed
vehicles also were in position. By afternoon, witnesses saw small teams of
paramilitary officers with high-powered weapons moving into the old quarter.

Mr. Zhang would later declare ''a bitter struggle of blood and fire against the
Dalai clique, a struggle of life and death.''

The Chinese authorities have also confirmed that army troops had arrived in
Lhasa by March 15,  saying their role was limited to traffic control and
securing military property. But many people  question if some of those troops
were involved in the crackdown. Several armored vehicles had their license
plates removed or covered in white paper.

Mr. Miles noticed that many of the People's Armed Police officers actually
appeared to be wearing irregular uniforms. One military analyst who studied
photographs of the scene concluded that some armored vehicles belonged to an
elite military unit. Witnesses reported hearing the sounds of gunshots
throughout that Saturday afternoon.

The crackdown was only one part of the new strategy. The Chinese news media
initially had not been allowed to cover the Lhasa violence. But by March 15,,
that had changed. There, broadcast on state television, was video of Tibetans
raging through Lhasa. No images were shown of the crackdown the next day.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Lhasa during the recent riots, a tourist who requested
anonymity took this photo of Chinese goods being burned. (pg.A1)
A woman recently surveyed the damage in Lhasa from the rioting in that Tibetan
city. The photos on this page were taken by a tourist who requested anonymity.
 A fire truck on a street in Lhasa during the recent unrest. Firefighters put
out fires while Chinese soldiers kept guard. (pg.A10) MAP: Lhasa, Tibet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

Chinese train is back on the rails

BYLINE: Erikka Askeland

LENGTH: 622 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE Chinese dragon economy has roared ahead in the third quarter,
breathing fire down the neck of the pre-eminent global economic position of the
United States.


Lavish government spending and bank lending has helped China's growth rate to
race ahead to 8.9 per cent in Q3, far outstripping every other major economy.
But the figures raise questions about whether the rapid rebound can be
sustained.

China also announced yesterday that industrial production and investment
spending are growing at a faster pace. But that seemingly good news unsettled
local stock investors on fears that Beijing may need to rein in its stimulus
policies to avoid asset bubbles and inflation. Yesterday, China's key stock
index, the Shanghai Composite Index, slid more than 0.6 per cent.

The world's third-largest economy suffered in late 2008 as exports plunged and
thousands of factories shut down, throwing millions out of jobs and sparking
riots. China fought back with a 4 trillion yuan (£383 billion) stimulus plan of
spending and bank lending for construction of infrastructure, such as railways
and roads, to pump up the domestic economy.

Growth bottomed out at 6.1 per cent in the first quarter, but rebounded to 7.9
per cent in the second, hitting 8.9 per cent in the third, compared with a year
earlier. That puts the economy on track at least to meet the official target of
an 8 per cent expansion for 2009 as a whole. This means China's "miraculous"
economy will have maintained an unbroken annual average growth rate of 8 per
cent for nigh on 30 years. Yet, sustaining the upswing beyond a few quarters
hinges on stronger demand for exports from important markets, such as the US,
Europe and Japan, which are emerging much more slowly from the worst global
recession since the Second World War.

Stephen Green, an economist for Standard Chartered Bank, said: "We'll see strong
growth from China for the next six months, possibly another year. The problem is
what happens after another year and a half. What will be the growth driver
then?"

Signalling another set of concerns, China's top leaders said earlier this week
that policies would increasingly focus on countering inflation - a problem that
had seemed below the horizon with consumer prices down 1.1 per cent so far this
year.

Still, the announcement that growth continued to accelerate in the third quarter
contained a hint of jubilation over Beijing's progress.

Li Xiaochao, a spokesman for the National Statistics Bureau in Beijing, said:
"We can say we have made obvious and remarkable achievements in our economic
growth. We have quickly reversed the economic slowdown.

"The momentum of the recovery is solid and, overall, our economic performance is
showing signs of improvement."

Rising industrial output drove up demand for steel and other industrial goods.

While China's imports still fall far short of its exports, its recovery is
playing a stabilising role for other, harder-hit economies, argued David Cohen,
the director of Asian economic forecasting for the consultancy Action Economics
in Singapore.

"The Chinese are the biggest customers for many countries around the world," he
said.

He added: "They matter like never before."

Corporations from Coke to Caterpillar are seeing their strongest sales in Asia,
particularly China, while Scottish distillers continue to grow sales there now
that trademarks protect whisky from counterfeiters.

But even as China's rapid recovery sees it loom ever larger for companies in the
West, it is grappling with problems that could undermine that progress.

Record bank lending has helped to spur potentially unhealthy booms in property
and share prices. Earlier this week, the top bank regulator, Liu Mingkang,
ordered banks to show more caution in lending in coming months.

The government this week also outlined fresh curbs on investments in steelmaking
and other industries plagued by massive overcapacity.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - WORLD

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: 0


China sentences 6 more to death for Xinjiang riot

China sentenced six people to death today over murders committed during deadly
riots in the western Xinjiang region in July, bringing the number of people
facing the death penalty for the riots to 12.

Nearly 200 people were killed when riots erupted in the regional capital of
Urumqi, with Muslim Uighurs attacking members of China's dominant Han ethnic
group. It was the country's worst communal violence in decades.

Hou Hanmin, a spokeswoman for Xinjiang's regional government, said six new
defendants were sentenced to death and three other people were given life
sentences by the Urumqi Intermediate People's Court. Five others were given
prison terms, she said, but did not provide details.

Palestinians seek action - Palestinians called Wednesday for global action to
punish Israel for alleged war crimes during its military assault on Gaza last
winter, warning that the credibility of the United Nations and international
human rights law was at stake. The demand was based on the findings of a U.N.
commission that accused both Israeli forces and Palestinian militants of war
crimes and possible crimes against humanity during their Dec. 27-Jan. 18 war.

Britain offers more troops for Afghanistan - Prime Minister Gordon Brown of
Britain announced a cautious and heavily conditioned plan on Wednesday to send
500 more British troops to Afghanistan, which would raise Britain's contingent -
the second largest in the 41-nation coalition fighting the eight-year war - to
9,500.

Deal may be near on Honduran president - Representatives of opposing factions in
the Honduran political crisis reached a tentative agreement Wednesday on whether
ousted President Manuel Zelaya should return to power, in what would be the most
significant breakthrough since a June coup. It, however, was unclear exactly
what the two sides had decided.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                              May 18, 2014 Sunday

Vietnam stops anti-China protests after riots, China evacuates workers

LENGTH: 906  words


Vietnam flooded major cities with police to avert anti-China protests on Sunday,
while Beijing evacuated thousands of citizens after a flare-up over disputed
sovereignty in the South China Sea sparked rare and deadly rioting in Vietnam
last week.

China has evacuated more than 3,000 nationals following the attacks on Chinese
workers and Chinese-owned businesses at industrial parks in its southern
neighbor.

On Sunday, China arranged two chartered flights to bring nearly 300 people, many
of them injured, home to its southwestern city of Chengdu, while five ships were
on their way to Vietnam to bring out more people, Xinhua news agency reported.

Sixteen critically injured were evacuated separately, aboard a chartered medical
flight in the morning, China's foreign ministry said.

According to witnesses, several arrests were made in the Vietnam's capital Hanoi
and commercial hub Ho Chi Minh City within minutes of groups trying to start
protests, as Vietnam's communist rulers stuck to their vow to thwart any repeat
of last week's violence in three provinces in the south and center.

Fury has gripped Vietnam after Chinese state energy firm CNOOC deployed dozens
of ships two weeks ago and towed a $1 billion oilrig to a location 240
kilometers off Vietnam's coast in an area both counties claim.

It was one of the most assertive moves China has made in seas believed to be
endowed with billions of barrels worth of oil.

A few days back, US President Barack Obama had visited several Asian allies
engaged in territorial disputes with China and a US official in Washington had
described China's action as provocative, saying Beijing's fraught relations with
neighbors could potentially strain ties with the United States.

"Our intention was to protest in support of the government to chase the oilrig
away from Vietnam's territorial waters," said Van Cung, a retired army colonel
who was attempting to protest outside the Chinese embassy in Hanoi.

Protests of hundreds in Vietnam's cities were allowed upto a week ago, a rare
move in a state that usually suppresses them. However, what started as a
peaceful march in two southern industrialised provinces on Monday, spiraled a
day later into a rampage of arson, destruction and looting of Chinese-owned
factories, and Taiwanese businesses mistaken for being Chinese.

Fighting between Vietnamese and Chinese workers broke out in central HaTinh
province on Wednesday killing two people and wounding 140, the government said.
China's Foreign Ministry also put the casualties at two dead and 100 injured,
Xinhua said.

A doctor and an eyewitness, however, said they saw between 13 and 21 dead
bodies, mostly Chinese, on the night of the unrest.

"The severe violence targeting foreign companies in Vietnam since May 13 has
caused casualties and property losses for Chinese nationals. This has destroyed
the atmosphere and conditions for bilateral communication and cooperation,"
Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said on Sunday.

The ministry also upgraded its travel advice for Vietnam on Sunday, telling
Chinese citizens "not to go for the time being".

China has demanded swift action against the perpetrators and for Vietnam to do
more to protect Chinese nationals and businesses.

A text message was sent to Vietnamese mobile phone users on Saturday saying
Vietnam's Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung had ordered the security forces to
prevent illegal acts. A top police investigator rejected assertions that the
authorities remained aloof when the rioting erupted.

TENSE TIES:

Police and traffic police gathered in small clusters on street corners in the
centers of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City on Sunday, where large numbers of people
were milling around in hot and humid conditions in anticipation of rallies.

Trucks with loudspeakers circled parks and stopped at intersections telling
onlookers to disperse. A handful of people who tried to start a protest in Ho
Chi Minh City were rounded up and taken away in a van as sirens blared.

"Vietnam may be small, but we are not weak", said a small sign held up by a man
who was ordered by police to disperse.

The spat has been the worst breakdown in shaky but important ties between the
two Communist states since a brief but bloody border war in 1979.

Trade between the two neighbors was worth $50 billion last year, with China a
crucial source of imports for Vietnam. Diplomatic ties have long been strained
and many Vietnamese are embittered by what they see as a history of Chinese
bullying.

The rioters had also targeted Taiwan and Hong Kong businesses, presumably
mistaking them for mainland Chinese. On Sunday, Singapore issued a statement
saying Vietnam's Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh had called his Singaporean
counterpart to give assurance that industrial parks for joint ventures between
the two countries would be protected.

Vietnam's authorities have long been uncomfortable with public protests, even if
they are about China, in what is often seen as fear that demonstrations could
harness wider discontent over land grabs, corruption, an underperforming economy
and one-party rule.

Dao Minh Chau, who described himself as "a Vietnamese who loves his motherland",
said he fully backed the government.

"We already signed a letter to request the government to bring China to the
international courts," he said.

"We will clearly tell our government that we will support it to protest China's
aggressive policy and the government can rely on us."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 1, 2011 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Weekend violence in China's western region leaves many dead

BYLINE: Keith B. Richburg

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


BEIJING - Weekend violence in China's restive Xinjiang region left as many as 15
people dead, including three killed during or after a bombing attack Sunday
afternoon and four attackers shot dead an hour later by Chinese security forces,
according to official news agency accounts and residents reached by telephone.

The Sunday violence follows an incident reported late Saturday, when two bombs
exploded and two assailants reportedly hijacked a truck, stabbing the driver and
ramming the vehicle into a crowd of pedestrians, killing seven people and
injuring 22. The crowd reportedly killed one of the hijackers.

The violence occurred in the town of Kashgar, the old Silk Road city in far
western Xinjiang near the border with Tajikistan.

Details were still emerging late Sunday, but security officials blamed the
upsurge of violence on "rioters," the term often used for Xinjiang's Muslim
Uighur separatists who have staged mostly low-level attacks against Chinese
government rule. In one of the most brazen attacks,assailants stormed a police
station July 18 in Hotan city and took hostages, killing four people before
police killed 14 of the attackers, although Uighur exile groups dispute that
account of the incident.

Residents in telephone interviews and in postings on popular microblogging sites
- which have become an alternative news source in China - reported thatKashgar
was under a strict curfew Sunday night. One resident posted on a microblog that
armored vehicles had been dispatched to the area and people were remaining
indoors. Some posted photos on their microblogging Weibo accounts.

Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the German-based World Uighur Congress, said that
from his information, "a curfew was imposed on the whole city of Kashgar, and
more than 100 Uighurs were detained. The incident is unbelievable, but we have
to face it."

He blamed the Beijing government for the latest unrest, saying, "China must stop
the long-systematic policies of repression right now and withdraw the Chinese
immigrants, release all the political prisoners and let the Uighurs express
their different views and grievances peacefully."

The Turkic-speaking Uighurs consider Xinjiang their traditional homeland, but
large influxes of ethnic Han Chinese migrants over the years have left Uighurs a
minority.  The Uighurs also complain they remain economically disadvantaged,
even as China overall has enjoyed double-digit growth rates and improved living
standards.

Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, said the violence Sunday began about
4:30 p.m. when a bomb exploded in downtown Kashgar. Xinhua initially reported
that three people, including a police officer, were killed in the explosion, but
a later Xinhua report quoted witnesses saying the three dead were "hacked to
death by rioters."

The news agency later reported that police had shot and killed four suspects
after the explosion and that four others had been captured and a manhunt was
continuing.

The toll from 24 hours of violence would make this one of the bloodiest weekends
in Xinjiang since ethnic rioting in July 2009 left nearly 200 people dead and
scores of shops and businesses burned down.

Since the 2009 riots, China's security forces have clamped down on the region,
including installing scores of security cameras. But Xinjiang's Communist Party
chief Zhang Chunxian, who was appointed after the riots, is trying to be seen as
more open -  he started a microblog account earlier this year - and addressing
Uighur concerns, such as the lack of jobs.

The latest upsurge in violence poses a challenge for the central authorities in
Beijing and also for Zhang's approach in dealing with Uighur grievances.

Raxit, the Uighur exile spokesman, said, "I'm afraid the two incidents will
become a new excuse for the police to carry out further repression on Uighurs."

He also disputed the casualty toll, saying the number of Uighurs killed in the
unrest  may be higher.

richburgk@washpost.com

Researcher Liu Liu in Beijing contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Hong Kong overnight riot injures at least 48 police officers

LENGTH: 253  words


Some 300 rioters clashed with Hong Kong police after a clearance operation on
illegal hawkers from late Monday to Tuesday morning.

Bricks dug out from pavements are seen left on a chair after protesters clashed
with riot police at Mong Kok district in Hong Kong, China, Feb 9,
2016.[Photo/Agencies]

HONG KONG -- Some 300 rioters clashed with Hong Kong police after a clearance
operation on illegal hawkers from late Monday to Tuesday morning.At least 24
rioters were arrested and 48 police officers injured.The riot erupted after a
handful illegal street vendors refused to halt business in Mong Kok, a busy
commercial district, and clashed with law enforcement officials.Rioters then
arrived and confronted with the police re-inforcement.After one and a half hour
of confrontation, the rioters attacked the police with bricks, stones and other
makeshift weapons. The police were forced to fire two warning shots in a bid to
rescue personnel.Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying condemned the
rioters' violent behaviors Tuesday morning and expressed his support to the
police for their efforts in restoring order and peace.

An injured TV journalist, center, is helped by his colleague and a riot
policeman after being hit by a stone thrown by a protester onto his face during
a clash at Mong Kok district in Hong Kong, China, Feb 9, 2016.[Photo/Agencies]

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/47/145500580823.jpg

b083fe95621b1823c26d04.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/57/145500580931.jpg

b083fe95621b1823a2204a.jpg

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           February 20, 2016 Saturday

Violence, legislative inaction harming HK, leaders say

BYLINE: Luis Liu in Hong Kong

LENGTH: 552  words


The escalating violence on Hong Kong's streets and filibustering in the
legislature are bringing Hong Kong to a standstill and will destroy its
competitiveness, city business leaders and political heavyweights cautioned.

They urged everyone to return to rational discussion.

Six major business chambers in Hong Kong joined for the first time in expressing
concern on the street violence and the ongoing delay of discussions in the
Legislative Council initiated by the pan-democratic camp.

Betty Yuen So Siu-mai, vice-chairwoman of the Chinese General Chamber of
Commerce, said a series of incidents, from the 79-day illegal "Occupy" movement
in 2014 to last week's Mong Kok riot, have greatly harmed Hong Kong's
international image and investors' confidence.

Local and overseas investors might reconsider their investment plans in the
special administrative region out of fear of unpredictable social instability,
Yuen said.

Daniel Cheng Man-chung, chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries,
hoped all citizens would calm down and reason things out through dialogue.

He suggested an open televised debate on certain social issues.

On Feb 8, hundreds of protesters clashed with the police in Mong Kok, the most
serious violence Hong Kong had seen in decades.

About 130 people, including 90 police officers, were injured. About 70 people
have been arrested.

Meanwhile, filibustering in the Legislative Council has halted the progress of
Hong Kong's infrastructure construction, said Eddy Li Sau-hung, president of the
Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong. As competition from countries
and territories in the region heats up, Hong Kong could lose its advantages, he
warned.

Suffering from the domestic political wrangling and international economic
downturn, the SAR's imports and exports have both declined, for the first time
since 2009. If new growth engines cannot be sorted out, the economic gains of
the past years could have been in vain, Li said.

One of the pillar engines is infrastructure construction, he said.

According to the Legislative Council, only two of 72 public works projects -
worth HK$67.5 billion ($8.68 billion) - submitted to the council this
legislative year have been passed. The others, including the high-speed rail
project, were delayed.

Also on Friday, Secretary for Security Lai Tung-kwok condemned the Mong Kok
riot, naming it the "most serious challenge" to Hong Kong's rule of law and
public order since the reunion with the mainland.

He urged all Hong Kong people to reflect on the incident and speak up to help
stop violence and radicalization.

In response to the riot, the police force established a review committee to
enhance the safety and professional competency of police officers in execution
of their duties. The committee held its first meeting on Friday.

Legislator Jeffrey Lam Kin-fung urged all people to stop radical acts and
protect Hong Kong's peace and stability.

luisliu@chinadailyhk.com

Representatives of six major business chambers urge the public to speak out
against filibuster in the legislature and violent acts at a media briefing in
the building of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong on Friday.
Parker Zheng / China Daily

(China Daily 02/20/2016 page3)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/24/145593745682.jpg

0013729e4abe1831ff2e10.jpg

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

Vietnam stops anti-China protests after riots, China evacuates workers

LENGTH: 906  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


Vietnam flooded major cities with police to avert anti-China protests on Sunday,
while Beijing evacuated thousands of citizens after a flare-up over disputed
sovereignty in the South China Sea sparked rare and deadly rioting in Vietnam
last week.

China has evacuated more than 3,000 nationals following the attacks on Chinese
workers and Chinese-owned businesses at industrial parks in its southern
neighbor.

On Sunday, China arranged two chartered flights to bring nearly 300 people, many
of them injured, home to its southwestern city of Chengdu, while five ships were
on their way to Vietnam to bring out more people, Xinhua news agency reported.

Sixteen critically injured were evacuated separately, aboard a chartered medical
flight in the morning, China's foreign ministry said.

According to witnesses, several arrests were made in the Vietnam's capital Hanoi
and commercial hub Ho Chi Minh City within minutes of groups trying to start
protests, as Vietnam's communist rulers stuck to their vow to thwart any repeat
of last week's violence in three provinces in the south and center.

Fury has gripped Vietnam after Chinese state energy firm CNOOC deployed dozens
of ships two weeks ago and towed a $1 billion oilrig to a location 240
kilometers off Vietnam's coast in an area both counties claim.

It was one of the most assertive moves China has made in seas believed to be
endowed with billions of barrels worth of oil.

A few days back, US President Barack Obama had visited several Asian allies
engaged in territorial disputes with China and a US official in Washington had
described China's action as provocative, saying Beijing's fraught relations with
neighbors could potentially strain ties with the United States.

"Our intention was to protest in support of the government to chase the oilrig
away from Vietnam's territorial waters," said Van Cung, a retired army colonel
who was attempting to protest outside the Chinese embassy in Hanoi.

Protests of hundreds in Vietnam's cities were allowed upto a week ago, a rare
move in a state that usually suppresses them. However, what started as a
peaceful march in two southern industrialised provinces on Monday, spiraled a
day later into a rampage of arson, destruction and looting of Chinese-owned
factories, and Taiwanese businesses mistaken for being Chinese.

Fighting between Vietnamese and Chinese workers broke out in central HaTinh
province on Wednesday killing two people and wounding 140, the government said.
China's Foreign Ministry also put the casualties at two dead and 100 injured,
Xinhua said.

A doctor and an eyewitness, however, said they saw between 13 and 21 dead
bodies, mostly Chinese, on the night of the unrest.

"The severe violence targeting foreign companies in Vietnam since May 13 has
caused casualties and property losses for Chinese nationals. This has destroyed
the atmosphere and conditions for bilateral communication and cooperation,"
Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said on Sunday.

The ministry also upgraded its travel advice for Vietnam on Sunday, telling
Chinese citizens "not to go for the time being".

China has demanded swift action against the perpetrators and for Vietnam to do
more to protect Chinese nationals and businesses.

A text message was sent to Vietnamese mobile phone users on Saturday saying
Vietnam's Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung had ordered the security forces to
prevent illegal acts. A top police investigator rejected assertions that the
authorities remained aloof when the rioting erupted.

TENSE TIES:

Police and traffic police gathered in small clusters on street corners in the
centers of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City on Sunday, where large numbers of people
were milling around in hot and humid conditions in anticipation of rallies.

Trucks with loudspeakers circled parks and stopped at intersections telling
onlookers to disperse. A handful of people who tried to start a protest in Ho
Chi Minh City were rounded up and taken away in a van as sirens blared.

"Vietnam may be small, but we are not weak", said a small sign held up by a man
who was ordered by police to disperse.

The spat has been the worst breakdown in shaky but important ties between the
two Communist states since a brief but bloody border war in 1979.

Trade between the two neighbors was worth $50 billion last year, with China a
crucial source of imports for Vietnam. Diplomatic ties have long been strained
and many Vietnamese are embittered by what they see as a history of Chinese
bullying.

The rioters had also targeted Taiwan and Hong Kong businesses, presumably
mistaking them for mainland Chinese. On Sunday, Singapore issued a statement
saying Vietnam's Foreign Minister Pham Binh Minh had called his Singaporean
counterpart to give assurance that industrial parks for joint ventures between
the two countries would be protected.

Vietnam's authorities have long been uncomfortable with public protests, even if
they are about China, in what is often seen as fear that demonstrations could
harness wider discontent over land grabs, corruption, an underperforming economy
and one-party rule.

Dao Minh Chau, who described himself as "a Vietnamese who loves his motherland",
said he fully backed the government.

"We already signed a letter to request the government to bring China to the
international courts," he said.

"We will clearly tell our government that we will support it to protest China's
aggressive policy and the government can rely on us."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

Hanoi blamed for anti-China riots

BYLINE: ZHANG YUNBI

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 651 words


Mixed and misleading signals sent to fuel demonstrators, observers say

Vietnam has sent mixed and misleading signals to stoke domestic public fervor by
advocating anti-China protests and has made no concessions toward drilling
operations by a Chinese oil rig in the South China Sea, observers said on
Friday.

China's Ministry of Commerce strongly condemned the violence in Vietnam and said
it feared casualties may rise.

Two Chinese nationals have been killed and more than 100 injured in the violence
that followed protests against the oil rig, the Foreign Ministry said in Beijing
on Friday.

Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung sent a text message to millions of
citizens urging them to "boost their patriotism to defend the fatherland's
sacred sovereignty with actions in line with the law".

Although he also said "bad elements" shouldn't be allowed to engage in violence,
the Associated Press said that the message, sent late on Thursday and into
Friday, didn't directly condemn the riots.

Reuters said anti-China violence subsided in Vietnam on Friday, but local media
said protests had not shown any signs of easing.

Leading Vietnamese newspaper Thanh Nien said the protests had spread to Bac Ninh
and Bac Giang provinces.

Images of protests along with articles saying that "protest is patriotism" are
dominating Vietnam's online news portals.

China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Friday, "The Chinese
government pays attention to and expresses serious concern about the violence in
Vietnam."

Shen Danyang, spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Commerce, said, "Vietnam
must ensure such incidents never happen again and take concrete action to repair
economic and trade cooperation."

Li Jinming, a professor of maritime law and South China Sea studies at Xiamen
University, said the Vietnamese authorities had given the go-ahead for the
protests, which started earlier this week, and the ensuing riots had made Hanoi
realize that it had failed to keep the protests peaceful.

"Vietnam is challenging China on two fronts - public protests and maritime
confrontations around the oil rig," Li said.

Authorities in Cambodia said about 1,000 Chinese had crossed into the country
since the violence began, Reuters reported.

Qu Xing, president of the China Institute of International Studies, said the
Vietnamese leaders' appeals against violence were aimed at damage control,
"which is a good sign". Hanoi should rethink its strategy of provoking China on
the territorial front, he said.

"Zhongjian Island, lying close to the Chinese oil rig, is totally out of the
scope of bilateral disputes and Vietnam should act more proactively in the areas
where both countries have reached consensus for joint development, not the
opposite," Qu added.

The protests, mainly targeting Chinese companies in Vietnam, have left 400
factories damaged and forced 1,100 others - including South Korean, Japanese and
Singaporean factories - to shut down, Xinhua News Agency reported.

Agence France-Presse commented, "An exodus of foreign firms would deal a heavy
blow to an economy already hit by sluggish domestic demand, banking sector
troubles and financial malaise among state-owned companies."

Edmund Malesky, an associate professor of political economy at Duke University
in the United States, told AFP: "Foreign investors had concerns about the
Vietnamese regulatory environment and governance, but they felt they were
entering a secure and safe location. The riots have called that safety into
question."

Vietnam's Minister of Planning and Investment Bui Quang Vinh said on Friday that
every Vietnamese must be responsible for protecting foreign investors and labor.

"As they come to invest and work in Vietnam, they are making a contribution to
Vietnam's socioeconomic development, and are protected by Vietnamese laws," the
minister said.

Wang Jian and Xinhua contributed to this story.

zhangyunbi@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            August 26, 2014 Tuesday

Hanoi sends envoy to help mend China ties

BYLINE: ZHANG YUNBI

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 385 words


A high-ranking Vietnamese official is to visit China as a special envoy, in a
move observers say is part of measures taken by Hanoi to repair its relationship
with Beijing.

A series of anti-China riots flared in Vietnam in May following operations by a
Chinese oil rig in waters near Zhongjian Island in the South China Sea.

The riots dealt a heavy blow to Vietnam's international image and its appeal to
international investors.

Le Hong Anh, a member of Vietnam's political bureau and standing secretary of
the Secretariat of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee, will visit
China on Tuesday and Wednesday, Xinhua News Agency reported on Monday.

He will act as the special envoy of Nguyen Phu Trong, general secretary of the
Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee.

Pan Jin'e, an expert on Vietnamese studies at the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences, said the envoy's visit shows that Vietnam wants to repair ties with
China as Hanoi strives hard to tackle challenges at home.

"Hanoi wants to ensure that top-level interactions are not interrupted because
of negative incidents. It knows that its domestic stability cannot be achieved
without China's support, especially in an economic context."

Chinese State Councilor Yang Jiechi visited Vietnam in mid-June and asked Hanoi
to take sufficient follow-up measures to heal the wounds triggered by the
violence. In a series of high-level talks, the two countries agreed to handle
sensitive issues properly to avoid damaging their relations.

Li Jinming, a professor of maritime law and South China Sea studies at Xiamen
University, said, "For Vietnam, it will take quite a while and a lot of effort
to see an end to the current trauma."

Le Hai Binh, a spokesman for Vietnam's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on
Monday that Vietnam will roll out "humanitarian support" for Chinese workers
affected by the riots.

Hanoi is "sorry that some Chinese workers lost their lives or were injured
during the incidents", and the Vietnam-China Friendship Association will send a
working team to China to visit the families of several victims.

Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China endorses the work done by
Vietnam and the positions it has taken.

Beijing expects Hanoi to fully implement relevant measures, Hong added.

Xinhua contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2007 Friday

Thousands clash with Chinese police over plan to merge towns - "witnesses"

LENGTH: 458 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 23
March

[Report by Ting Shi: "Rioters Take to the Streets Over Plan To Merge Jiangxi
Towns"]

More than 200 people stormed railway tracks and blocked traffic for hours along
a key rail route in Jiangxi province in the latest mass riot.

Waves of residents in Guixi started to invade the town's main railway station on
Wednesday morning to protest against a pending merger of their affluent town
with a neighbouring poor district.

Xinhua also ran a story on the incident, describing it as "instigated by a small
group of people" and having been quelled six hours later in the evening.

About 200 people were sitting on the railway tracks and the stoppage attracted
hundreds of onlookers, it said. Scores of passengers and trains were delayed.

Provincial party chief Meng Jianzhu intervened, giving specific instructions on
how to pacify the situation, and Governor Wu Xinxiong rushed to the scene to
disperse the crowds, Xinhua said.

Government officials made door-to-door visits yesterday to try to convince
residents not to protest again, it said.

But witnesses said several thousand protesters had clashed with local police,
with several dozen residents injured and at least one police car turned over.

"There was a sea of people; I've never seen so many people in this place
before," a receptionist at a hotel near the station said. "Lots of armed police
and anti-riot police arrived. It calmed after dusk."

Pictures posted on the internet also showed hundreds of riot police dressed in
military uniforms cordoning off an area in front of the train station.

Protesters were seen in the photos throwing rocks at police, while one image
showed a car being torched.

"Police injured at least 40 people; this made many people angry so they began
turning over a car," said a man named Chen, who runs a food shop across from the
railway station.

When the crowd began turning over the car, police started firing their guns into
the air to warn the protesters, he said.

Guixi residents protested because they fear their city will have to subsidise
the relatively poorer residents of Yuehu district if the merger takes place.

The town has the top five copper mines in the country and is the No 1
contributor to the province's tax revenue.

Officials said the merger was still being considered.

China has witnessed an increasing number of protests and riots, often in rural
areas, in recent years, fuelled by a widening wealth gap, corruption and
official abuse of power.

Thousands of protesters clashed with police in the southern province of Hunan
last week, as a demonstration over rising public bus fares escalated into a
riot.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 23 Mar 07

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

China says foreign nations support handling of Lhasa riot

LENGTH: 409 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Foreign Nations Voice Support for China's Handling of Lhasa Riot" - Xinhua
headline]

Beijing, 20 March:  Foreign nations voiced their support for China's legitimate
actions to handle the violence in Lhasa in recent days, expressing their
opposition to the secessionist activities and the politicization of the Beijing
Olympics.

According to a press release issued here Thursday from the Chinese Foreign
Ministry, Russian, Belarusian and Vietnamese foreign ministry spokesmen all
expressed their support for China's efforts to stop the unlawful activities in
an aim to restore local peace and stability and their confidence in China's
capability of hosting the Olympic Games.

Pakistani and Mauritania foreign ministries issued statements on Tuesday and
Wednesday respectively applauding Beijing's commitment to host the Olympic
event, stressing that their countries oppose to any attempts to sabotage or
politicize the Beijing Olympics, as well as the conspiracies to undermine
China's sovereignty and territory integrity.

Singapore's Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports Vivian
Balakrishnan said, "It is vital to keep sporting competitions and politics
separate. We must not let politics obstruct the sports."

On the same day, Lesotho Foreign Minister Mohlabi Kenneth Tsekoa said in his
meeting with Chinese ambassador that Lesotho will back China's efforts to
safeguard national sovereignty and territory integrity, stressing that the
handling of the Lhasa riot was China's internal affairs and no other countries
have the right to make irresponsible remarks on the issue.

The press release also said that ambassadors in Beijing from Arabian nations all
expressed their shock to the violence that occurred in Lhasa, saying that their
countries support China's approaches to safeguard national security and restore
social stability, and would continue to adhere to the one-China policy.

On the same day, Indian foreign minister Pranab Mukherjee urged Dalai Lama and
his followers to stay away from any political activities.

Cote d'Ivoire's Minister of Foreign Affairs Mohlabi Kenneth Tsekoa and the
Republic of Congo (ROC) Foreign Affairs Minister Basile Ikouebe all expressed
their firm supports for China and its efforts to hold a successful Olympic Games
in Beijing, the press release added.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1716 gmt 20 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2008 Monday

Tensions continue in western China's Tibetan area of Ganzi - Kyodo

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

[By Shinichiro Serita]

Ganzi, China, April 14 Kyodo - Over a week after clashes erupted between Tibetan
protestors and security authorities, the city of Ganzi in southwestern China
remains tense, with trucks carrying riot policemen patrolling the area.

The police, armed with guns and shields, are continuing to patrol the
Tibetan-populated city in Sichuan Province 24 hours a day. Each truck has a man
lying on the top with an automatic rifle at the ready.

"They suddenly started shooting at us, after firing warning shots in the air," a
Tibetan monk who participated in the protest on April 3 told Kyodo News.

According to Tibetan rights groups, at least eight Tibetans died after the
police fired live ammunition into the protesting crowd.

The monk said that demonstrators started marching to seek the return to Tibet of
the Dalai Lama, the area's spiritual leader. The demonstrators clashed with the
police in the city centre, and the monks started running away after the shooting
began.

The people who became targets of the police shooting were those trying to take
pictures of the incident, the monk said.

"The government is lying, and that is why it is afraid of pictures becoming
known to the outside world," he said.

Posters calling for "opposition to Tibetan separatist activities" were put up in
various places in the city.

Residents said they were posted after deadly riots took place in Tibet last
month, which later spread to places including Ganzi, whose Tibetan name is Garze
or Kardze.

But many of those posters were ripped or damaged, apparently by residents
opposed to the message.

Also seen in the city were notices seeking information on the organizers of the
demonstrations as well as those who took photographs of the incident, with
rewards of up to 100,000 yuan ($14,285) being offered.

This reporter's movements were also restricted. Three policemen accompanied him
and a photographer during the time they were in Ganzi, citing "safety concerns."

Access to a Tibetan temple was denied on the grounds that no journalist can
enter without a press pass for the Beijing Olympics, although such passes have
yet to be issued.

While some sense of calm and normality has appeared - fruits and vegetables were
on sale at the city's market - tensions continue, with over 300 trucks of the
People's Liberation Army and riot police seen transporting personnel as well as
goods into Ganzi from the provincial capital of Chengdu in a period of just two
hours on Sunday.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 1117 gmt 14 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2008 Monday

German scholar: West should support Chinese reforms

LENGTH: 695 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Interview: West Should Support China's Reform Instead of DemonizingChina by
Ban Wei" - Xinhua headline]

Berlin, April 21 (Xinhua) - "Hysteria" and "demonization of China" were how
Thomas Heberer, a leading China expert in Germany, described the overwhelmingly
negative Western media coverage on the Tibet riots and China issues.

Heberer, who chairs the East Asian Studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen,
said in an interview with Xinhua that people in the West should learn more about
China and support China's successful reforms because China is far too important
for the world.

He said that the shift from an "idealization" of China years ago to
"demonization" of the country is due to "a coincidence of a number of
unfortunate factors."

"These include deterioration in media description of China since the late 1990s,
many people's fear of outsourcing German jobs to foreign countries, especially
to China (Most people do not know that the growing trade with China has created
many new jobs in Germany), fear of copying of German products, and fear of
China's global dominance."

"These fears have again been reinforced by the negative media coverage of China.
Moreover, the German government has not counteracted this development," he said.

According to Heberer, the vast majority of Germans and Europeans know very
little about China and Tibet. To get objective information about China on the
Internet is also difficult because there are so many different opinions.

"Many people have told me that they are unable to judge what is right and what
is wrong. People who know nothing about China also cannot make objective
judgment. These people therefore believe in the media, which like picking up
those topics that sell," he said.

Heberer first visited China in 1975. From 1977 to 1981 he worked in China as a
foreign expert for China's news weekly Beijing Review. And since 1981 he has
devoted himself to the research on social development in China and has visited
many regions of the country, including those populated by different ethnic
minorities.

"Since I have visited various parts of China for research purpose every year
since 1981, I'm able to experience the enormous changes in the country," he
said.

Such a fundamental change from the isolation before the 1970s to a relatively
open country, the phenomenal reform process from a rigid planned economy to a
market economy, and the increasing pluralism and liberalization since the late
1970s have made China increasingly open and free, Heberer said.

He also noted that it is no surprise that the transformation from a planned to a
market economy has brought China a lot of problems, including growing income gap
between urban and rural areas, uneven development among different regions, as
well as corruption.

Moreover, the development of legal system in China still lags the rapid
transformation to a market economy. Decentralization has meant that local
governments which pursue their own interests do not necessarily implement the
policies of the central government, he added.

"All these are temporary phenomena, which are expected to level off to the end
of the transformation process," Heberer said.

"Indeed, in such a large country with such complex structures, all the problems
cannot be solved simultaneously. Social stability and economic growth are
currently the main focus along with sustainable development," Heberer said.

"China's transformation takes time and patience. And the Chinese leadership has
also proven its ability to learn from mistakes and to correct them," he said.

"Germany and Europe should stand by China in its successful transformation,"
Heberer added.

He also stressed that he can't agree with the opinion that there will be a
confrontation between a rising China and the West in the long run.

"China is far too important for the international community, and global problems
cannot be solved without China. People who have never been to China will
gradually realize that China is totally different from what they imagine,"
Heberer said.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0729 gmt 21 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday

Qinghai official says Tibet government's tactics "heavy-handed", "arbitrary"

LENGTH: 1199 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 26
April

[Report by Shi Jiangtao in Xining: "Solution Over Tibetans Is 'More Control'"]

In the aftermath of the Tibet uprisings, mainland authorities see things could
have been done differently, and they know that a difficult task lies before
them. That task is one of better control.

This is why Beijing has stepped up its oversight of Tibetan monasteries, which
it has blamed for escalating the violence in the recent anti-government
protests.

The increased supervision is part of a campaign whose dual goals -as commanded
by the top leadership -are "to educate, rehabilitate and salvage as many as
possible of the majority of Buddhist monks who have been politically deceived by
'the Dalai clique's' separatist plots on the one hand, and to separate and
punish rigorously the few diehard supporters of the Dalai Lama".

Or, as Bai Ma [Baima], chairman of the Qinghai provincial committee of the
Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, put it: "This is a fight
against the Dalai Lama by winning the hearts and minds of the people in
Tibetan-populated areas."

So, teams of leading local officials have been sent to Buddhist monasteries in
Tibet, Qinghai, Sichuan and Gansu populated by ethnic Tibetans.

The campaign, which targets monks who took part in the worst protests in 20
years and their monasteries, is expected to last until the end of the Olympic
Games in August, said Bai Ma, an ethnic Tibetan.

"Unlike the previous patriotic education campaigns which focused on positive
examples (of ethnic unity and support for the government), the new drive
emphasises religion and education in the law, and is carefully targeted," he
said in an interview with the South China Morning Post.

Local Communist Party officials at the prefecture and county levels would help
Buddhist monks "realise their mistakes and figure out how to rectify them", he
said. Teams would then evaluate the campaign.

The daily management of the monasteries, which were heavily involved in the
massive protests in Lhasa and neighbouring provinces, was also part of the
government strategy.

"The unrest exposed serious problems in our management of monasteries,
especially at the grass-roots level," Bai Ma said. "Local authorities are either
unwilling, or lack the ability, to come to the fore in dealing with Buddhist
monasteries and take responsibility. Some are even afraid of doing the job
because of its nature as a sensitive political issue.

"We have begun pilot projects to research new ways of controlling monasteries
and treating them like other social organizations."

The protests, which broke out among Buddhist monks in Lhasa early last month,
marked the anniversary of a failed 1959 uprising against Beijing, during which
the Dalai Lama fled to India. Those protests escalated into riots across areas
inhabited by Tibetans a few days later.

"It is regrettable that authorities in Lhasa failed to take firm action to
control the situation during the first few hours of the March 14 riots," said
Bai Ma, who has close contact with the leadership in the Tibet Autonomous
Region.

He added to early speculation that authorities in Lhasa appeared indecisive in
acting because they had to wait for orders from Beijing. The fact that the
region's party boss and the chairman were attending the National People's
Congress in Beijing at the time only complicated matters.

Although government officials in Lhasa have been keen to deny the claim, Bai Ma
said he learned from a senior official in Lhasa, who was transferred from
Qinghai two years ago, that the scale of the March 14 riots had surprised the
authorities.

"They had controlled the protesting monks in the major monasteries in Lhasa
since March 10, but they were unprepared for the massive street protests which
escalated into violence within a few hours," he said.

"They did not have enough police or effective means to confront rioters. They
had guns, but they could not open fire without permission from above," Bai Ma
claimed.

Similar riots and unrest spurred by a lack of resources and serious lapses in
communication between the central and local governments during crises have
broken out in Lhasa several times in the past two decades, according to Bai Ma.
"But lessons have yet to be learned."

But the former security chief of the province was confident that a similar
situation could never happen in Qinghai because the government and police had
been on high alert ahead of the Olympics.

"We will try our best to avoid mass incidents from happening. If something does
happen, we are fully capable of taking decisive action."

He and a senior party official from Yushu Tibetan prefecture, a southern Qinghai
region bordering Tibet, agreed that apart from pointing the finger at the Dalai
Lama and his followers, the government's ineffective education was also to blame
for the unrest.

"It is true that 'the Dalai clique' has never stopped their separatist attempts.
They began inciting protests in the region by telephone and other communications
last year, especially among the younger generation of monks," Bai Ma said.

Most of the monks who took part in the protests were under 25, and few
monasteries led by senior lamas were found to be involved, according to the
officials.

The Yushu official, who declined to be named, claimed that young monks usually
knew little about Tibet's history, especially "the dark days under the rule of
the Dalai Lama before 1959".

Quoting a famous remark by the late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in the late
1980s that the biggest mistake since the reform and opening-up was made in the
field of education, the official noted that young Tibetan monks were not that
different from their social counterparts.

"Young monks are more eager to be involved in social affairs, unlike older
lamas, who concentrate on their own inner world of peace," Bai Ma said. "Some
even resume secular lives temporarily to help their families during the harvest
season.

"Our education system has done rather poorly in conveying historical and
traditional knowledge to the younger generation, and we have come across similar
difficulties in educating young monks."

Unlike other Tibetan-inhabited areas, many parts of Qinghai have not been that
affected by the protests, according to Bai Ma.

Only 15 out of more than 700 monasteries in the province and about 5 per cent of
the monk population had been involved. The worst hit were Longwu, in Huangnan
Tibetan prefecture, and Baiyu, in Guoluo Tibetan prefecture.

Only a handful of Buddhist monks had taken to the streets and carried a
"reactionary flag" -the snow-lion flag of independent Tibet -but Bai Ma said
things had calmed down quickly with the help of local residents, including
Tibetans.

But the situation in Lhasa's landmark monasteries of Drepung and Sera remained
tense, Bai Ma said, as the education campaign there was running into problems.

"It seems stable at the moment because of the heavy troops presence, but the
question is how long can it last," he said. "The heavy-handed and arbitrary
tactics (of the government) only create more animosity."

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 26 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Straits times: Beijing defends Chinese youths in Seoul riots

LENGTH: 666 words


Text of report by Singapore newspaper The Straits Times website on 30 April

[By China correspondent Tracy Quek: "Beijing Defends Chinese Youths in Seoul
Riots - China Says They Meant Well; South Korea To Prosecute the Protesters Amid
Public Outcry"]

BEIJING -BEIJING yesterday defended Chinese students who clashed with protesters
during the Olympic torch relay in Seoul, even as South Korea announced it would
prosecute and deport the Chinese youths involved.

On Sunday, more than 6,000 Chinese students turned up in the South Korean
capital to root for their country as the Olympic flame passed through the city.

Nationalistic feelings have been stirred up after anti-Chinese protests dogged
earlier legs of the torch's global journey.

Scuffles broke out when protesters, including North Koreans, demonstrated
against China's forced repatriation of North Korean refugees and its crackdown
on Tibetans.

Videos and pictures of Chinese students beating and kicking protesters, and in
some cases, hurling water bottles, stones and other objects at demonstrators,
were circulated online and have sparked a public outcry in South Korea.

Already, there are signs that the incident could blow up into a diplomatic spat
between the two Asian neighbours, whose political relationship has long been 'a
little strange and awkward,' according to one analyst.

Beijing-based international relations expert Shi Yinhong said that although
trade ties between China and South Korea are booming, 'politically, there have
been some historical territorial disputes between the two countries. There are
also differences between both sides that I can only describe as psychological.'

'This incident is bound to add an unpleasant psychological element to bilateral
ties,' he told The Straits Times.

On Monday, South Korea's Foreign Ministry lodged a complaint with the Chinese
ambassador in Seoul.

Politicians have also vowed 'legal and diplomatic measures' against the Chinese
students responsible for the attacks which Prime Minister Han Seung Soo said had
'considerably damaged national pride.'

Yesterday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Jiang Yu said she had no knowledge
of any plans to take action against the students.

Although Beijing has hit out at anti-China protesters for disrupting earlier
legs of the torch relay, Ms Jiang refrained from levelling the same criticism at
the Chinese youths.

The Chinese students, 'unlike Tibet independence saboteurs,' meant well, she
told reporters at a press briefing in Beijing.

'They were friendly and were there to welcome the torch and to protect the
dignity of the torch. I believe that is natural,' she said.

She acknowledged that 'perhaps some students got carried away by emotions, and
this led to some friction,' but said the students had good intentions.

'The real intention of the students was good. I hope everyone can distinguish
the true nature and cause of the events,' she said.

Her comments, however, could potentially fan growing anti-Chinese sentiment in
fiercely nationalistic South Korea.

Newspaper editorials and netizens have lashed out at the Chinese students for
their actions and questioned if Beijing was worthy to host the Olympics in
August.

'What right do these people have to travel in hordes in a foreign capital,
hurling punches and launching kicks at others?' Chosun Ilbo, the country's
biggest daily, said in an editorial.

Joongang Daily, another major newspaper, criticised the Chinese students'
'narrow-minded nationalism.'

'They have once again portrayed themselves as members of a not-quite-developed
country on the international stage,' the paper added.

Ms Jiang dismissed suggestions that Chinese embassies stationed overseas had
anything to do with the massive turnout by pro-Chinese supporters in Asian legs
of the torch relay.

'It is not true, stop playing up this issue,' she told a reporter sternly.

China's troubled global torch relay ends today, when the torch reaches Hong
Kong.

Source: The Straits Times website, Singapore, in English 30 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday

833 Malaysians held abroad for drug offences

BYLINE: Sean Augustine

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words


PUTRAJAYA: In just less than a year, a total of 833 Malaysians have been
detained overseas for drug related offences, the Foreign Affairs Ministry
revealed yesterday.

The figures, collated from late last year till March 31, make up about 44 per
cent of the 1,880 Malaysians arrested overseas, said Deputy Foreign Affairs
Minister Datuk Richard Riot.

The majority of Malaysians nabbed were aged between 20 and 30, did not have a
criminal record and were either unemployed or had been holding low-income jobs.

More males were involved and they made up 675 of the 833 nabbed.

Most of the Malaysians, said Riot, were detained in Thailand with 272 cases,
followed by Singapore with 164, Taiwan (125) and China (82).

"The syndicates targeted single mothers and university students as drug mules,"
he said after officiating at the ministry's Family Day, here, adding that most
drug mules were from rural areas.

Riot disclosed the figures when asked about a 22-year-old student from Sarawak
who was detained by Chinese authorities a few days ago.

Merrylyn Chandra Sapat was arrested at the Shenzhen airport on Tuesday where
police discovered 100 capsules containing 600g of heroin.

Marrylyn claimed that her friend, an African named Michael whom she had met on
FaceBook a year ago, had instructed her to do so and would pay her RM5,000 when
she returned to Malaysia, an act Riot was quick to brand as "foolish".

Riot said Merrylyn has refused legal counsel.

"However, we need to ask ourselves why the drugs were only detected in China and
not in Malaysia."

Riot was quick to point out that he was not questioning the efficiency of the
Malaysian authorities but the fact that drugs were discovered on the girl in
China meant maybe that "something needs to be done on our side".

He also said the ministry would soon embark on an awareness campaign with other
ministries to raise awareness on the issue of drug mules.

He warned Malaysians to be very careful with friends met on social networking
sites, especially individuals from Africa.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

China warns Vietnam trade will suffer

BYLINE: Rachel Chang In Beijing

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 371 words


FIRING a fresh salvo at Vietnam, China said bilateral trade will suffer if it
allows last week's anti-China unrest to escalate.

The violence, which saw foreign businesses damaged and looted and at least two
Chinese nationals killed, "has hurt the Chinese people's feelings and affected
the confidence of Chinese and Vietnamese enterprises", said the Commerce
Ministry's head of foreign trade Zhang Ji.

"This would definitely damage the healthy development of Sino-Vietnam trade,
which China does not want to see, and will also be detrimental to the Vietnamese
economy," he said, in response to a question at a briefing on new measures to
boost trade.

Anti-China sentiments flared in Vietnam after Beijing deployed an oil rig in a
part of the South China Sea that Hanoi also claims. On Sunday, Beijing suspended
some unspecified bilateral exchanges with Hanoi.

Mr Zhang pointed out yesterday that China has been Vietnam's biggest trading
partner for the past decade. Bilateral trade last year reached US$65.5 billion
(S$80 billion), a 30 per cent year-on-year increase. Some 28 per cent of
Vietnam's total imports are from China, while exports to China make up 10 per
cent of its total exports. By comparison, Vietnam's imports and exports form
only a fraction of China's total.

Mr Zhang said the healthy state of bilateral trade was a result of "common
efforts" and had "not been easy to achieve".

Also in Beijing yesterday, former ambassador to Singapore and Thailand Zhang
Jiuhuan appeared at a dialogue organised by the All-China Journalists
Association on the past and future of the South China Sea issue.

He dismissed comparisons between Vietnam's anti-China riots and China's 2012
anti-Japan riots, which erupted after Japan bought three of the disputed
Diaoyu/Senkaku islands from a private owner. He said Chinese authorities had not
condoned the violence and acted swiftly to stop it, while the Vietnamese
government adopted a hands-off policy at first.

Mr Zhang, now vice-president of the China Public Diplomacy Association, said
South China Sea claimants Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei staked
their claims only in the 1970s and 1980s after realising it was an oil-rich
area.

rchang@sph.com.sg

SEE OPINION

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday

The news in 5 minutes

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 822 words


TOP OF THE NEWS

3 main factors in riot: COI

THREE factors combined to cause the violence in the Little India riot to worsen,
said the Committee of Inquiry (COI) in a report that also blamed alcohol. It
also gave eight recommendations, most of which were on how to prevent future
riots.

'Islamic caliphate' declared

SUNNI jihadists have declared an "Islamic caliphate" on territory they seized in
Iraq and Syria in a move that has alarmed regional and world powers. The Islamic
State ordered Muslims to pledge allegiance to its chief.

WORLD

HK set for protests

HUNDREDS to thousands of Hong Kongers are likely to "occupy Central" tonight,
blocking the main Chater Road in the central business district. Another group
will also "occupy Tamar", the public space outside the Chief Executive's office,
in a bid to step up calls for "real democracy".

Maids put on display'

THE Philippines has voiced concerns over an Al Jazeera report which claims that
some maid agencies in Singapore have been "displaying" women as "commodities" in
shopping malls. The Philippine Embassy in Singapore may file a police report if
the accounts are true, its foreign affairs department spokesman said.

Retired general Xu Caihou was the former vice-chairman of the Central Military
Commission. -- PHOTO: REUTERS

Ex-top general sacked

CHINA has sacked retired general Xu Caihou, an ally of retired president Jiang
Zemin. He is the highest-ranking official to have fallen from grace over graft
charges since President Xi Jinping took charge.

Next up - Down Under

AFTER its controversial reclamation works in the Strait of Johor, Chinese
developer Country Garden is pressing ahead with its Australian plans.

Besides aiming to buy a stake in Australian property giant Meriton, it has also
launched its 800-apartment complex in Sydney.

OPINION

TPP doubters should consider big picture

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong is concerned most about blockages in the US to a
Pacific trade deal. There are other hurdles, each of which could sink the
effort. Time, surely, to see the big picture of all-round benefit. All parties
must agree that a deal will serve the common good.

Property market poser

THE property market is a pale shadow of itself from a year ago when the boom was
in full swing.

Is it time to lift some cooling measures? Reporter Cheryl Ong ponders the
burning question in the weekly Eye on the Economy column.

SINGAPORE

New parking scheme

A PAY-PER-MINUTE parking scheme for motorcyclists could help them save hundreds
of dollars a year. More than 500 Housing Board and Urban Redevelopment Authority
carparks are bringing in the system, which will help those who need to use the
spaces for only brief periods, such as dispatch riders.

Managing disputes

SINGAPORE hopes the territorial disputes in the South China Sea between several
countries can be managed to avoid armed conflict, said Foreign Minister K.
Shanmugam. It does not matter which countries own which islands as long as the
peace can be kept, he said.

MONEY

Surprise rebound

RESALE prices of private homes staged a surprise rebound in May over April,
reversing a nine-month decline. Overall resale prices climbed 0.8 per cent from
April to May, according to Singapore Residential Price Index flash estimates.

Frasers raising $368m

FRASERS Hospitality Trust (FHT) plans to raise $367.9 million through the sale
of stapled securities at 88 cents apiece. FHT is a global hotel and serviced
residence trust comprising Frasers Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust and
Frasers Hospitality Business Trust.

Justin Rose with his trophy after winning the Quicken Loans National in
Bethesda, Maryland, on Sunday. -- PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

SPORT

Booster for Rose

BRITISH golfer Justin Rose won his first title since the US Open just over a
year ago, parring the first extra hole on Sunday to beat Shawn Stefani for the
US$1.1 million (S$1.4 million) top prize at the Quicken Loans National in
Maryland. It gives the 33-year-old world No. 8 a huge boost for the British Open
later this month.

Curators (from left) Anca Rujoiu, Jennifer Teo, Woon Tien Wei and Vera Mey are
involved in the collaboration project Post-PopUp. -- ST PHOTO: STEFFI KOH

LIFE!

Partners in arts

INDEPENDENT visual arts institutions here say collaborations among themselves
allow them to pool resources, expertise and influences to create the space for
them to better pursue their common goals.

Unlike state institutions and commercial galleries, independent players offer
discursive practice and scholarship that can be esoteric, a little off the wall
and hard-hitting.

Tokyu Hands for S'pore

JAPANESE lifestyle store Tokyu Hands Inc, known in Japan as the go-to store for
quirky homeware products and do-it-yourself items, is headed to Singapore.

In September, a 7,500 sq ft store will open at Westgate in Jurong East. This is
their second overseas store, under the Tokyu Hands label, following the opening
of its Shanghai outlet in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday

International: Villagers riot as China enforces birth limit: Officials beaten by
crowd in south-western province: Large fines and seizing of property spark
violence

BYLINE: Jonathan Watts, Beijing

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 609 words


Thousands of villagers in south-west China have attacked family planning
officials, overturned cars and set fire to government buildings in a riot
sparked by the state's one-child policy.

Riot police have been sent to at least four townships in the Guangxi autonomous
region after disturbances that led to multiple injuries and unconfirmed reports
of two fatalities, witnesses and Hong Kong media reported yesterday.

The unrest comes in the wake of a new crackdown by the Bobai county government
against families that break birth control regulations. Financial penalties have
increased and parents who fail to pay are being punished by having their
property confiscated or destroyed.

At the height of the demonstrations on Saturday, a crowd of several thousand
stormed the Shapi municipal office, pulled down a wall and chased and beat
officials from the family planning department. This followed demonstrations in
towns across Bobai county.

Under state policies dating back to the late 1970s, most urban couples can only
have one child. Families from rural areas and ethnic minorities can often have
two children, especially if the first is a girl. The aim of the policy is to
slow the growth of the world's biggest population, which is seen as a drain on
resources.

In Bobai, the rules were weakly enforced for many years, but this spring the
local government established "family planning work squads" to collect penalties
retrospectively.

A student who gave only his surname, Zhou, told the Guardian his family were
fined 2,000 yuan (£132) because they had three sons in the 1980s. His uncle, who
has five children, was fined 20,000 yuan. "He only earns 1,200 yuan per month .
. . But if you cannot pay, the officials come to your home and confiscate the
contents. If you refuse, then smash, smash, smash."

On internet chatrooms and in telephone conversations, locals said the work teams
had confiscated cattle, DVD players, crockery and other household goods in lieu
of unpaid fines.

Officials from other government departments were mobilised for the campaign. One
woman, Mrs Luo, said she was recruited to make up the numbers of the "work
squads". "Usually we went to a house and asked them to pay the fine," she said.
"If no one answered, some men in our group used hammers to break in and take
away property. If there was not enough to confiscate, they smashed the walls.
Before we used to force women to have abortions but now the target seems to have
changed to raising money. I hate this job, but I have no choice."

Another local man, Mr Lu of Yulin village, said the riot started after the work
teams bulldozed the house of a poor farmer who could not afford the fine. The
farmer reportedly went to the municipal office to protest and returned with
broken fingers, stirring up anger in his community.

Local governments and police refused to comment. The state-run media has been
forbidden to report the incident.

A doctor at the Shabei hospital told Reuters that several injured people had
been treated there. Online photographs of protests showed smashed cars, burning
buildings and a rioter stealing a computer monitor. There were also images of
work squads in army fatigues carrying sledgehammers.

The one-child policy has become a symbol of the wealth gap in China. Earlier
this month, government officials admitted that many rich families violated the
rules because they could afford the fines.

Inequality, land grabs and pollution fears have prompted a wave of unrest.
According to the ministry of public security, there were 87,000 "mass incidents"
reported in 2005, up 6.6% on 2004 and 50% on 2003.

Additional reporting by Chen Shi

guardian.co.uk/china >=

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 178 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday

BYLINE: Bill Schiller, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


Guizhou high school student Li Shufen didn't want to go out, even if it was a
Saturday night. She preferred to stay in, relatives say.

But when her girlfriend Wang Jiao phoned for a third time, saying there were a
couple of boys coming along and they'd all have fun, Li Shufen gave in.

The following morning she was found dead. Relatives retrieved her body from the
river saying she had been the victim of a brutal rape and murder and demanding
that police investigate. The police did.

But last week when they declared Li had committed suicide and exonerated both
young men - one who was supposedly related to a local government official -
locals smelled a cover-up.

And the small city of Weng'an in southwest China's Guizhou province exploded
with fire and fury.

On Saturday, 30,000 people took to the streets overturning police cars, setting
fire to the local Communist Party headquarters, and trashing police and
government offices in a rampage that lasted until 4 a.m. Sunday, when armed
reinforcements were finally trucked in.

It was a staggering display of violence with less than six weeks to go before
the Olympics - all easily viewed on the Internet - and yet another demonstration
of just how volatile this vast country can be.

Yesterday, in a clear sign of pressure from China's top authorities, state media
confirmed a new forensic investigation will be conducted and a team of 10
investigators was on its way to the city.

But late last night the reopening of the investigation was news to the dead
girl's father. Li Xiuhua told the Star in a telephone interview he had heard
nothing. But if true, he welcomed it. It was what he had been hoping for.

"I hope that people with real abilities can find out the truth - so it can
alleviate our anger," he said.

"I want justice," he added. "I want the truth."

But he was still nervous, and small wonder: He has been terrorized himself.
Before last weekend's riots, he was threatened by local thugs who told him to
lie low and not to participate in any demonstrations about his daughter's death.

Similarly, when his brother complained to the police about the original
investigation, he was so badly beaten by the same or similar thugs that he had
to be hospitalized.

"They weren't police," Li said last night. "But they might have something to do
with the police."

Nevertheless, heeding their threats, he left town before the weekend
demonstrations which escalated into riots.

"I fled. I went somewhere else," he said. "I don't know why I was threatened."

As he spoke, he was camped out in an outdoor location with his wife and family,
keeping vigil over his daughter's refrigerated coffin.

He had been doing so, he said, to protect the body in the event his calls for a
proper re-examination were answered.

From the beginning, he noted, the family had received little solace from
officials in the city. In fact, he said, when family members went to retrieve
the body from the river on June 22, police and rescue workers who had been
called to the scene, stood there and looked on.

"Our family members got the body out by themselves," he said. "They (police and
rescue workers) were there and did nothing."

Police initially determined the high school student drowned. According to
reports, Li Shufen's girlfriend, Wang Jiao, and the two young men who were the
last to see Li alive were questioned by police and released the same day.

Yesterday, state media reports, including the English-language China Daily
newspaper and the state news agency Xinhua, were remarkably candid and
sympathetic to a family who was standing up against perceived government
corruption. The news agencies allowed family members to contradict the original
police report and even make strong, clear statements demanding government
action.

Last night the girl's father rejected any suggestion that his daughter might
have committed suicide.

"She wouldn't have leaped into the water like that," he said. "She wouldn't."

And he denied rumours that a senior provincial government official had ordered
him to accept about $1,350 from the suspects as compensation.

"No such thing," he said. "And I definitely wouldn't accept such an offer."

In today's China Daily police denied that relatives of government officials had
any involvement in the death of the schoolgirl.

Li Shufen had been a student at No. 3 Middle School, and as the family lived in
the countryside, she stayed with Liu Jinxue, one of her father's relatives in
town.

Liu was quoted yesterday as saying Li just wasn't someone who would commit
suicide.

"She was a quiet and nice child," Liu said. "She seldom hung out or played
around. I don't think she killed herself."

The Xinhua report also noted that a crowd of people had been carrying banners
reading, "Return justice to the people," and it stressed that local government
employees had been ordered to assist the family.

Even a local business owner was quoted saying she was still nervous about the
situation.

"Although the incident has died down now," she told Xinhua, "I don't feel
absolutely safe now. I was shocked by what happened."

As paramilitary police sent in to quell the violence continued to patrol the
streets of Weng'an yesterday, the Hong Kong-based Information Center for Human
Rights and Democracy said that 300 people had been arrested in Weng'an following
the riots. Police were reported to be using videos on the Internet as a tool for
arrests.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  afp
 AP PHOTO Police vehicles lie overturned in front of a burned-out police
building in Weng'an, Guizhou province, on Monday. Chinese authorities detained
hundreds of people suspected of setting fire to government buildings in a
furious outburst over the handling of a teenage student's death in southwest
China.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              166 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                     August 31, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

20,000 Chinese farmers rampage over high taxes

SOURCE: Reuters

SECTION: News; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: BEIJING

BEIJING -- In one of China's biggest civil disturbances in recent years,
thousands of farmers are in revolt over harsh taxes near the cradle of the
Communist revolution in Jiangxi province.

Officials said yesterday armed paramilitary police were dispatched to the region
earlier this month after rampaging farmers smashed government offices and looted
homes of the rich, highlighting a threat to the government from peasant
discontent simmering around the country.

Officials confirmed a report by a Hong Kong-based human rights group, which said
more than 20,000 peasants had staged violent protests against high taxes. No
deaths or injuries were reported, but scores were arrested and it took five days
to bring the rioting and looting under control, officials said.

Ironically, the area around the city of Fengcheng is in mountainous territory
where Chairman Mao and the Communist Red Army set up the first "revolutionary
base" in the 1920s, drawing on support from downtrodden peasants.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                October 11, 2010

Will the ANC congratulate the latest Nobel winner?

BYLINE: Verashni Pillay: BACKGROUND NOISE

LENGTH: 684 words


Once upon a time South Africa was the kind of country whose leaders were awarded
Nobel Peace Prizes. Now we side with governments who crack down on those who get
them.   We've all heard of Liu Xiaobo by now, even if not everyone can pronounce
his name. Like other recipients of an award that is often literally the product
of blood, sweat and tears, the 98th Nobel Peace Prize winner received it while
in prison.  The activist's Christmas present on December 25 2009 was being
chucked into jail again -- this time for authoring a document that dared to
demand freedom of speech and democracy.  China's party-controlled judiciary
disagreed that the latter was necessary. You see they have what they call a
"people's democratic dictatorship and socialist system". Which, according to the
verdict, he was guilty of trying to subvert.  Now here's where it gets
interesting. The ruling ANC -- which has earned at least one Nobel Peace Prize
via its patron saint, much as he protests to the contrary, Nelson Mandela -- is
practically in love with China's government.  I've already written about the
quaint study tours the ANC top leadership are taking to the world's largest
communist country and top contender for human rights infringements.

It was an official programme they weren't making too big a deal about; something
you'd find on the back pages of your newspaper.  At the recent ANC NGC -- that
important gathering of top ANC honchos for a mid-term check-up -- journalists
received the most unequivocal statement of the ANC's continuing love affair.
"You the know the ANC has a good relationship with the Communist Party in China
... the Chinese have been assisting members of the ANC in going to China and we
need to learn how the Chinese conduct their political strategies," The chair of
the session on international affairs, deputy minister Ebrahim Ismail Ebrahim,
enthusiastically told journalists in response to a question.  Now China's
economic expansion is one thing -- and is thanks to a gradual freedom in that
area. The fact that this hasn't been matched politically doesn't stop the ANC
from waxing lyrical about that aspect of Chinese governance.  "Groups of the ANC
have been to China to learn the history and experience of the Chinese party, the
Chinese revolution and how they're conducting their affairs -- both in the party
and in the Chinese government," he went on. "Our relationship with the people of
China, particularly the Communist Party, goes before liberation -- particularly
in exile years. Many cadres in the movement, especially older ones, were trained
by the Chinese."  Am I missing something here? How is there any kindred spirit
between what the ANC purports to stand for and China's tyrannical government? If
anything it is the opposite. Where the ANC lost hundreds during and after the
Soweto riots, China's government killed possibly thousands in the Tiananmen
Square massacre. Where the ANC's women's league famously marched against the
pass laws, China till today runs the controversial Hukou "residency permits"
system, restricting the movement of people in their own country. Where much of
the ANC's liberation struggle was built on the strength of its partners in the
unions -- who, for better or for worse, are so strong they can confidently
threaten to make the country ungovernable if workers don't get what they want --
there are no independent unions in China and discrimination is practically
institutionalised against rural workers and certain ethnic minorities.  I could
go on, notwithstanding the parts where the present-day ANC veers too close to
the CP's way of doing things when it comes to threats to media freedom and
judicial independence.  So where we should be identifying with Liu in his
long-standing fight for freedom for his fellow oppressed fellow Chinese, you
won't be hearing a congratulations from the ANC anytime soon. Our freedom has
been won and we'll be damned if we'll let someone else's fight interfere with
our lucrative relationship with their oppressors.

     ·    You can read Verashni's Monday column here and follow her on twitter
          here.


LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Once SA was the kind of country whose leaders were awarded Nobel Peace
Prizes. Now we side with governments who crack down on those who get them.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              June 21, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Parents riot as China tries to stop exam pupils cheating

BYLINE: Malcolm Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 371 words


WHAT should have been a hushed scene of 800 Chinese students diligently sitting
their university entrance exams erupted into siege warfare after invigilators
tried to stop them from cheating.

The relatively small city of Zhongxiang in Hubei province has always performed
suspiciously well in China''s notoriously tough "gaokao" exams, winning a
disproportionate number of places at the country''s elite universities. Last
year, the city was cautioned by the province''s education department after it
discovered 99 identical papers in one subject. This year, a pilot scheme was
introduced to enforce the rules strictly.

When pupils arrived to sit their exams, they were dismayed to find they would be
supervised by 54 randomly selected external invigilators.

The invigilators used metal detectors to relieve students of their mobile phones
and secret transmitters, some of them designed to look like pencil erasers.

A team of female invigilators was on hand to intimately search female examinees.

Outside the school, officials patrolled the area to catch people transmitting
answers to the examinees. At least two groups were caught.

As soon as the exams finished, a mob swarmed into the school in protest. By late
afternoon, more than 2,000 students and their parents had gathered to vent their
rage, smashing cars and chanting: "We want fairness. There is no fairness if you
do not let us cheat."

The protesters claim cheating is endemic in China and that sitting the exams
without help puts their children at a disadvantage.

Teachers took to the internet to call for help. "We are trapped in the exam
hall," wrote Kang Yanhong, an invigilator. An invigilator named Li Yong was
punched in the nose by a father.

'Strict' Hundreds of police eventually cordoned off the school and the local
government conceded that "exam supervision had been too strict".

Meanwhile, a 52-year-old Frenchwoman has been caught sitting a crucial
pre-university English examination in Paris in her 19-year-old daughter''s
place.

Dressed in "elaborate makeup", low-waisted jeans and Converse shoes, the mother
made the brazen attempt at cheating this week to help her daughter secure her
Bacchalaureat - France''s equivalent of A-levels. (© Daily Telegraph, London)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday

China and India at odds

BYLINE: N.V. Subramanian, Special to Gulf News

LENGTH: 682  words


<para_tag>Peaceable, focused on India's economic rise and aware that the country
can ill-afford military tension at this juncture, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
is quietly but desperately trying to prevent relations with China from
deteriorating further. However, he is not being assisted in this by nationalist
forces within, and the Chinese leadership is not being entirely successful in
reigning in hawks in the People's Liberation Army (PLA).

Over the past few months, there have been provocations from the Chinese side
along the 3,200 kilometre disputed India-China border, including air violations
in Ladakh, PLA hooliganism among settled Ladakhi tribal populations in Indian
territory in Jammu and Kashmir, PLA incursions in Arunachal Pradesh (which China
claims), and a Chinese-Pakistani joint-venture dam project in
Pakistan-controlled Kashmir, which India lodged a protest against some days ago.
Additionally, China blocked an Asian Development Bank loan to India because a
small portion of it was earmarked for a watershed management project in
Arunachal Pradesh and, tellingly, before the thirteenth round of Sino-Indian
border talks last month, the Union Cabinet cleared funding for it internally.

Since India and China fought a war in 1962, relations have been fraught, despite
peacemaking attempts by prime ministers Rajiv Gandhi, P.V. Narasimha Rao and
Singh. By recognising the Tibetan Autonomous Region as Chinese, Vajpayee hoped
to win recognition for Arunachal Pradesh, but China merely adjusted online maps
to show another previously disputed Sikkim state as India's - mostly for the
purpose of resuming border trade. China is keen on acquiring Arunachal Pradesh,
especially the Tawang tract where the sixth Dalai Lama was born, to strengthen
its hold on the contentious Tibet region. The present Dalai Lama's forthcoming
visit to Arunachal Pradesh has angered China, but India is not willing to put
further curbs on him.

Because of China's opacity, it is difficult to determine whether the tensions on
the border are the result of a power struggle - the PLA flexing its muscles to
prove independence from the political leadership - or a show of strength to
counter the impression of a weakened centre following the recent Uighur riots.
When China is perceived to be weak on Taiwan, Tibet or the Uighur question, the
leadership has had to take provocative action.

The Singh government has tended to take the Chinese civilian leadership at its
word when it says that it wants peaceful relations, and that there is space for
both India and China to rise. As such, it has either denied reports of Chinese
incursions or played down such violations. However, the Indian military is in an
unusually defiant mood. While confidence-building military exercises are planned
in Ladakh and the government has bolstered Arunachal Pradesh's security with at
least 60,000 mountain troops and two squadrons of Su-30 fighters, the armed
forces are using the press to persuade the public that Chinese border violations
should not be taken lightly. However, the political leadership's assessment is
that any military tension with China would affect India's rise. As this article
was being written, an internal meeting on China to be chaired by National
Security Advisor M.K. Narayanan was called off so as not to add to the growing
media hysteria.

Currently, the Chinese military is superior to that of India's - at least in the
eastern sector of the disputed India-China border. Deterrence-wise, India is
robustly outclassed, with recently expressed doubts about its thermonuclear
weapon tested in May 1998 adding to the nuclear imbalance. And there is no
certainty that in a limited war with China, Pakistan would not open a second
front.

The United States has tended to intervene to prevent conflict between India and
Pakistan. But in the India-China border dispute, there is no third party
mediation. The Singh government hopes that if it refrains from provoking China,
tensions will somehow dissipate.

N.V.Subramanian is the editor of News Insight, and writes internationally on
strategic affairs.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2009 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                October 14, 2001

Riot leader collects top award; Protests held outside Government House as
veteran unionist receives Grand Bauhinia

BYLINE: Ambrose Leung

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words


Veteran unionist Yeung Kwong, leader of the 1967 leftist riots, yesterday
received the SAR's highest honour, the Grand Bauhinia Medal, from Chief
Executive Tung Chee-hwa.

The award to Mr Yeung, 75, former chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions,
had attracted heavy criticism from political parties and social figures since
its announcement in July.

More than 51 people were killed and hundreds injured during the 1967 territory
-wide clashes with police, during which protesters planted bombs.

In the ceremony held at Government House, both Mr Yeung, property tycoon Li Ka
-shing and prominent doctor Sir Harry Fang Sin-yang received Grand Bauhinia
Medals. Mr Tung handed out a total of 251 awards yesterday.

The federation hosted a celebration at its To Kwa Wan headquarters for more than
300 unionists after the ceremony. Speaking at the celebration, Mr Yeung said
workers had no choice but to fight back in 1967.

"The 1967 incident . . . was a patriotic, anti-imperialist struggle for our
rights. It was the result of the draconian policy by the Hong Kong British
colonial Government, it was proof that the worse the persecution, the bigger the
struggle," Mr Yeung said.

Mr Yeung said the government of the time was wrong to deploy riot police to
target striking workers and the mass arrest of unionists had caused the riots.

Mr Yeung said he was "overwhelmed" when he received the award from Mr Tung, and
that it was a recognition of trade-unionism by the post-handover Government.

"It was an unthinkable thing before the handover," he told those assembled.

Federation president Cheng Yiu-tong said people should not be "entangled" by the
past. "Mr Yeung deserves the award for his 30-year contribution to workers'
welfare," he said.

During the ceremony, about 20 members of the April 5th Action Group protested
outside Government House against the award, while more than 30 unionists of the
federation rallied in favour of Mr Yeung.

Carrying a wooden coffin, veteran activist Koo Sze-yiu said the Government
should not praise someone who had caused the death of innocent citizens.

Pineapples symbolising bombs were also placed outside the Central Government
Offices by protesters in remembrance of those who were killed by bombs in the
riot.

China affairs analyst Ching Cheong, former editor of the defunct Contemporary
Monthly, said the award was an attempt to appease pro-Beijing groups.

"The political dynasty in Hong Kong has changed, wrong things in the past could
become right, while right things in the past, wrong," he said.

Legco will debate a motion, sponsored by Democrat Cheng Kar-foo on behalf of the
home affairs panel, to ask that an inquiry be conducted into why Mr Yeung was
awarded the honour.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2001 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              171 of 178 DOCUMENTS

                          The Business Times Singapore

China will be 'partner' of N-E Asia: SM Lee;
He says it will emerge as an economic equal with US by around 2050

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday

Anthony Rowley


SINGAPORE'S Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew yesterday rejected conventional
analyses representing China's emergence as being either a threat or an
opportunity to the rest of Asia. He argued instead that China would become an
economic 'partner' for North-east Asia while being a 'competitor' to South-east
Asia.

At the same time, Mr Lee warned Japan that it would have to work hard to
maintain its competitive 'edge' against a China which, he said, is modernising
at sometimes 'frightening' speed.

Speaking by video link from Singapore to a Tokyo conference on the Future of
Asia, the senior minister expressed optimism that China would be able to manage
what he called its 'dramatic transformation' successfully. But he also
acknowledged the existence of potential threats such as labour unrest, or even
'serious riots', if China did not provide safety nets against further massive
retrenchment of workers. He also alluded to possible threats such as
'hyper-inflation' in China.

Whatever hiccups there may be along the road to China's full modernisation, it
will emerge by around the year 2050 as an economic equal with the US, whose
continued presence in East Asia will be essential to counterbalance China,
suggested Mr Lee. At that time, even a combination of Japan, a reunited Korea
and Asean will not be able to compete with China's economic might, he predicted.

Over the next 15 to 20 years, South-east Asia cannot hope to compete with China
in terms of labour costs, size of market and as a magnet for foreign direct
investment, said the senior minister. Instead, it should focus on providing such
things as tropical produce which China is unable to produce for itself. Mr Lee
echoed the view expressed by Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad at the
same Tokyo gathering that Asean states can aid China by supplying products such
as oil, gas, chemicals and other raw materials.

Mr Lee sketched a different scenario, however, for the China-North-east Asia
relationship. For Japan and South Korea, China will provide a base to relocate
certain industries so that these countries can remain competitive
internationally, in the same way that Taiwan has already shifted much production
to mainland China. But as China learns production techniques it will become more
of a 'competitor' for Japan and South Korea too, so that the economic balance of
power within Asia in 50 years will be 'completely different'.

During the same conference, Wang Jian, a senior official in the Chinese State
Development and Planning Commission, suggested that it could be 'several
decades' before China fully liberalised its capital markets, having learned from
the experience of other Asian nations about the dangers of rapid liberalisation.

But executive director at the Bank of Japan Masayuki Matsushima argued that as
China's trade and investment grow in the wake of WTO entry, 'investors will
request the lifting' of capital controls.

There was no consensus among speakers over whether the yuan would appreciate or
depreciate in the wake of such liberalisation.

SECTION: SINGAPORE NEWS

LENGTH: 512 words

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              172 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           August 14, 2013 Wednesday

On frontline of fight against crime

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi

LENGTH: 626  words


The shadows lengthened as evening fell and officer Yue Chaoqun discussed his
work, its demands and rewards, as he drove a police van.

Urumqi police officer Yue Chaoqun chats with an employee at a local Xinhua
bookstore during a fire-safety checkup. Cui Meng / China Daily

The shadows lengthened as evening fell and officer Yue Chaoqun discussed his
work, its demands and rewards, as he drove a police van.

Yue patrols the bustling streets of Erdaoqiao in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous
region capital, Urumqi.

Suddenly, Yue stopped talking and turned on the siren after seeing a group being
chased.

"Hold tight," the 30-year-old said while he made a sharp turn in pursuit.

The group separated and soon disappeared into the small alleys.

Yue made inquiries and reported the incident to the police station. It turned
out that the people being chased were street con artists.

Erdaoqiao is the equivalent of the Tian'anmen area of Beijing, said Yu Xinhong,
deputy director of the Nanguan police station, which oversees the area.

"Our officers, like Yue, are constantly under pressure because the daily
floating population could reach 100,000."

Yu said Nanguan station, with 105 officers, is on the frontline in the fight
against crime and terror.

Erdaoqiao was one of the worst hit areas during the July 5 riot in 2009, which
left 197 people dead. After the riot, a command and coordination center was set
up on the fifth floor of the station where different departments, including
police and special forces, can immediately be dispatched to tackle emergencies.

After the terror attack on a police station in Lukqun township, Turpan
prefecture, on June 26, all officers from Nanguan were required to carry arms.

"The majority of the residents in the area are Uygurs, so we have to be careful
to avoid any escalation in tension," Yue said as he dispersed a crowd of
onlookers who had gathered on the street.

Once, while on plainclothes duty, Yue apprehended a thief who had just stolen
from a store.

As he waited for backup, the thief told the crowd that had quickly gathered that
he was being held for no reason.

"Many people in the crowd started to shout and point their fingers at me but I
just told them there is no ethnic group when it comes to law enforcement.
Everyone is equal." The suspect and his colleagues were later charged with
theft.

But Yue said being misunderstood can leave a bitter taste.

Lu Wenlong, director of Nanguan station, said the officers have to deal with all
sorts of incidents, from armed attacks to fire hazards. "Officers have no time
to rest. Working long hours is common."

Ahmettohut Metturson, 45, director of a police station in south Xinjiang's Hotan
prefecture, died of a heart attack on July 12 after working non-stop for 26
days.

"Many officers in Nanguan have worked more than 26 straight days since June and
a lot have work-related diseases. We have all become workaholics because we have
to protect people and prevent bloodshed from happening again," said Lu who
vividly remembered the July 5 riot.

"I sleep with my handheld transceiver on. I feel nervous without its sound."

After the chase crowd dispersed, Yue drove his van back to the station to check
on four suspects he had arrested for burglary in the morning.

Yue's wife, Chang Minhui, 26, gave birth to a baby boy on July 31. "I cannot
remember the last time when we had dinner together without voices from the
transceiver," Chang said.

Yue's shift normally starts at 10 am and ends at 2 am, sometimes seven days a
week.

Lu hopes the authorities allow some days off for officers and increase their
salaries. "Overworked and stressed officers might misjudge situations and the
frontline officers deserve better pay for their hard work."

cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 08/14/2013 page7)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2013 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                  May 26, 2014

Anti-China protests take toll on border trade

BYLINE: Yang Yang and Huo Yan

LENGTH: 1899  words


The flood of tourists and vehicles has trickled to a standstill at once-busy
crossing after the anti-China protests in Vietnam.

Women from a Vietnamese town by the Puzhai checkpoint take a break from their
labors. [PHOTO BY HUO YAN / CHINA DAILY]

Flow of tourists and trucks dries up at once-busy crossing, report Yang Yang and
Huo Yan in Pingxiang and Dongxing counties, Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region

It was not even the end of May, but the fierce early-summer sun and high
humidity made Friendship Pass in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region almost
unbearably hot.

The pass, one of the major tourist and cargo routes between China and Vietnam,
was usually filled with cars and trucks. Recently, however, the flood of
tourists and vehicles has trickled to a standstill.

A Vietnamese man unloads boxes of glass jars from a truck in Puzhai town,
Pingxiang county, in the Guangxi Zhuang autonomous region.[PHOTO BY HUO YAN /
CHINA DAILY]

A couple of Chinese took a sweaty stroll around an almost-deserted park before
resting in the shade of a huge banyan tree that faces the symbolic Friendship
Pass Tower. In the almost deserted parking lot, taxi drivers competed for trade
among the few visitors, as two locals, a man and a woman, sat and ate their
lunch. Occasionally, a dozen or so people arrived and went through the tower
gate, which leads into the pass. They waited patiently at the security
checkpoint that leads into Vietnam. Very few people were traveling in the
opposite direction.

Just a 10-minute drive away is the largest Sino-Vietnamese cross-border trade
zone at the Puzhai checkpoint. Once, trucks loaded with mahogany, finished and
semi-finished goods, and fruit and vegetables from Vietnam plied the route,
causing frequent traffic jams.

However, the volume of traffic fell dramatically when a UNESCO ban on the
cross-border transportation of mahogany came into force on April 1. Meanwhile,
the recent spate of anti-Chinese protests in Vietnam has further reduced the
meager flow.

"The traffic has dwindled noticeably", said Lu Lidan, a 24-year-old sales clerk
who has worked at a nearby store for a year, selling Vietnamese products such as
wooden handiwork, snacks and balms. She attributed the lack of activity to the
end of the season for some fruits, adding, "It's the low season for tourists,
too."

A little further down the street, a truck from Linyi in the eastern Chinese
province of Shandong was parked in front of a shop. A dozen Vietnamese women
were busy unloading boxes of empty glass pickle jars destined for Vietnam.

Related news

·China urges Vietnam to stop interferences

· Comment: Hanoi behind all the trouble

· Riots dampen country's investment climate

·Vietnam riots 'threaten ties and investment'

"They come from the Vietnamese town at the other end of the pass. They come over
here to make money because they have no work at home," Lu said.

The truck driver said that when the jars were unloaded, he would fill the truck
with Vietnamese vegetables such as peppers and take them to Shandong, where
demand is high.

By 2 pm, it was too hot to work, so the women took a break. They sat in the
corridor and chatted quietly.

Anxious customers

Pingxiang county in Guangxi Zhuang, a five-minute drive from the Puzhai
checkpoint, is China's largest market for mahogany products. Wu Mingdong and his
older brother, Wu Wenhe, have been running their wholesale outlet Hefa, meaning
"Peaceful and Prosperous" in Chinese, for five years. Statues of the Buddha,
carved from 3-meter-long pieces of mahogany, stood in front of the door. The
brothers come from Hai Duong, a city near the Vietnamese capital of Hanoi, but,
like many of their compatriot traders, they have adopted Chinese names.

"Business here is good and we recently expanded the shop," Wu Mingdong said,
adding that his brother was in Vietnam collecting items they had ordered. "We
are running our business as usual, completely unaffected by the protests in
Vietnam," he said.

Across the street, Hu Zhenxiu was at work in a shop called Jubao, or "Gathering
Precious Objects". She said the protests that erupted from May 13 to May 15 had
scared some customers away.

"Recently, some long-standing (Chinese) customers called and asked whether it
was safe for them to come and buy mahogany. They were very concerned, but I told
them it's safe to come here," said the 20-year-old.

Her colleague, Fan Suqing, 32, from Hunan province, said, "The number of people
coming here has fallen in the past few days. We usually import our products from
Vietnam, but we've stopped going there for the time being because of the
protests. However, I think that in a week or so, the situation will cool down
and we will go back."

Ding Jinxing and her husband have run their 400-square-meter shop in the China
No 1 Market for Mahogany Products for three years. Ding was in Hanoi, in the
north of Vietnam, when the protests started.

Vietnamese women sit on the banks of the Beilun River. They gather there to sell
balms,cigarettes, and counterfeit perfume. [PHOTO BY HUO YAN / CHINA DAILY]

"Hanoi was all right compared with Ho Chi Minh City in the south, where there
are a lot of Chinese companies. There are many business partnerships between
Chinese and Vietnamese people in the north of the country, so people were
worried about their businesses. But on May 13, the hotels in the north began
refusing to take Chinese people," said the 39-year-old, who was born in Hanoi
but is ethnically Chinese and has lived in China since 1979.

On May 14, Ding and some other Chinese businesspeople rented a bus to travel to
Ping-xiang, a journey that was tense, but uneventful. However, just one day
later, some of Ding's business friends who were returning to Pingxiang in a
rented bus were stopped and robbed.

"Usually, I travel to Hanoi three or four times a month, but I haven't dared to
go there since my last trip," Ding said.

"Although the Vietnamese government is taking action, such as compensating
companies for damage and loss of business, offering Chinese investors tax breaks
and preferential land rental rates, there are very few Chinese in Vietnam now.
People don't dare to go there because it's too risky. You have to be prepared to
defend yourself if you go there now," Ding said.

Related news

·China urges Vietnam to stop interferences

·Comment: Hanoi behind all the trouble

·Riots dampen country's investment climate

·Vietnam riots 'threaten ties and investment'

"Our business has been greatly affected because people, especially buyers from
the coastal cities, are worried and are too frightened to come to the border
towns. This month there has been a noticeable decrease in the number of buyers
compared with last year - many Vietnamese workers have gone home, and the volume
of traffic has fallen. I won't go back to Vietnam for a while. If things
continue like this, the interests of both Vietnam and China will be damaged,"
she said.

"The Friendship Pass is seeing far fewer people, and many Chinese tourists and
travel agencies have canceled their plans to visit Vietnam," she added.

Vietnam Street

On Wanwei Golden Beach in Dongxing county, more than 250 kilometers from
Pingxiang, a group of about 50 people from Shandong province had stopped to eat
lunch and take in the scenery around Beibu Gulf. Two middle-aged women stood in
the shade and stared at the muddy waters.

The group, which had traveled along the coast from Fangchenggang, a port city in
the gulf, was heading to Dong-xing to see a boundary tablet erected in 1890. The
tourists also wanted to buy made-in-Vietnam snacks, wooden craftworks and
rubber-soled slippers at the Vietnam Street market, on the opposite side of the
Beilun River to the city of Mong Cai. Instead of going through the Dongxing
checkpoint into Vietnam as originally planned, they had decided to stay in China
and survey the few buildings visible on the southern side of the river, which
forms the border.

Dozens of Vietnamese vendors carrying wooden bracelets chased after the few
visitors who stopped to take photos beside the river. Women sat on the riverbank
waiting for customers to buy balms, cigarettes and counterfeit perfumes
purporting to be Chanel, Calvin Klein and other well-known brands. They all wore
colorful shirts and black trousers topped off with conical palm-leaf hats and
floral print masks,

Vietnam Street, a five-story market of about 500 stalls, is popular with Chinese
tourists and visitors because it sells goods of reasonable quality at low
prices. Recent first-time visitors to Dongxing may be forgiven for not
understanding how prosperous the place usually is.

The anti-Chinese protests are illegal, and the Vietnamese government has taken
strong measures to deal with them. Vietnamese people don't want to see these
protests because they will affect trade and business between the two countries."
LIN CHAO

VIETNAMESE BUSINESSMAN

At 10 am on May 23, very few people could be seen wandering around. Lachrymose
Chinese songs that were popular in the 1990s were being piped through the empty
rooms.

Lin Chao, a 29-year-old Hanoi native, was selling mahogany goods on the ground
floor. His family has four stalls, one each for Lin, his two brothers and his
mother.

"Usually there are more people around in the afternoons, when fatigued tourists
return at the end of their trip and want to buy Vietnamese products to take
home," he said.

Lin started his business in Mong Cai 10 years ago, but he later moved the store
to Dongxing because "it's more convenient to send the products to cities in
China". To better facilitate his business operations, Lin spent six months
studying Chinese in Nanning, the capital of Guangxi.

"The anti-Chinese protests are illegal, and the Vietnamese government has taken
strong measures to deal with them. Vietnamese people don't want to see these
protests because they will affect trade and business between the two countries.
Some Vietnamese have gone home, mostly those from places where the protests have
been taking place. But I don't think businesses here have been affected too
badly because most have a lot of long-standing, stable customers in China," he
said.

However, Wen Fengli, a 35-year-old from Wenzhou in East China's Zhejiang
province, who sells Vietnamese snacks and beverages at the market, said that she
has noticed a marked decline in visitor numbers.

"The effect has been huge. There are so few tourists right now. Many of our
established clients have called me to ask about the situation on the border. You
see, we used to be extremely busy, especially during the holidays when the
market was packed with tourists. We stall-holders rarely had time to stop and
chat because we were too busy collecting money from customers. Compared with the
same period last year, there are far fewer tourists. Even during the low season,
we usually have more customers than this," she said.

Wen has been running her stall for three years and business has been so good
that she hired an assistant, a 24-year-old Vietnamese woman from Mong Cai who
crosses the border every day to work in the market. The woman, who has adopted
the Chinese name Huang Yunlan, said, "It's safe on the border. There's too much
inaccurate gossip flying around. It's affecting our business, so I hope it stops
soon."

Contact the authors at yangyangs@chinadaily.com.cn and huoyan@chinadaily.com.cn

Peng Yining contributed to this story.

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                August 28, 2014

Vietnam signals good will

LENGTH: 816  words


The guarded optimism Beijing has displayed over Le's visit reflects the
prevailing suspicion that Hanoi's positive tune may easily reverse at any time.

The fatal mid-may anti-china riots in Vietnam were so destructive that few will
anticipate a hasty two-day visit by a Vietnamese special envoy will suffice to
repair the damage.

Yes, Le Hong Anh is the fifth most powerful man in Vietnam. And visiting as
special envoy of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee, he is the
highest-ranking Vietnamese official to visit Beijing since the riots froze
bilateral ties.

Yes, as it has declared, Hanoi now wants to defrost ties. Whether it likes it or
not, its economic interdependence with China means it is difficult for Hanoi to
sustain a costly standoff.

Certainly Beijing is also interested in repairing strained relations, or Le
would not have visited and talked with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Angry as it
was at the riots and Hanoi's de facto acquiescence, Beijing knows hostility does
no good except further destabilizing the neighborhood, which serves neither
Vietnamese, nor Chinese interests.

China and Vietnam have not always been on good terms. But from thousands of
years of dealing with each other, they have learned the significance of
good-neighborliness. A near neighbor is better than a distant cousin; they know
this.

The biggest obstacle estranging the two has been their territorial dispute. Each
of their recent conflicts arose from there.

Territorial disputes can be furious, even fierce. But the successful North Bay
demarcation suggests that they do not have to be, as long as both sides can
demonstrate reason and sincerity. The latest row in the South China Sea has
escalated to such a degree because Hanoi has lost its mind with incitement from
outside.

Having fought with Beijing so many times, Hanoi should have learnt that although
Beijing will not hesitate to fight and defend its territorial integrity, it is
always open to consultations when it comes to territorial disputes.

What annoys Beijing the most, though, has been Hanoi's capriciousness and
duplicity regarding the dispute. The guarded optimism Beijing has displayed over
Le's visit reflects the prevailing suspicion that Hanoi's positive tune may
easily reverse at any time.

As a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman once said, Beijing cares more about what
Hanoi does than what it says.

As Le's visit indicates, the special kinship between the Chinese and Vietnamese
communist parties could offer an additional guarantee for bilateral
communication, making it easier for the two to address differences.

Hanoi's problem, however, is the illusion that outsider intervention can help it
win bigger through confronting Beijing.

Other Views

Focus on joint development

While sending a special envoy, Vietnam has neither strengthened nor altered its
standpoint in its dispute with China; so it is predictable that Vietnam will not
make big concessions but might adopt new strategies on the issue.

On the other hand, China should be clear that the situation in the South China
Sea is under control so it is not necessary to show strength. All it needs is to
better implement the principle of "setting aside disputes and pursuing joint
development", which is in accordance with the interests of all sides involved.

Xu Liping, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, cnr.com, Aug 26

The dispute between China and Vietnam is far more than a matter of the two
nations only and might concern even the whole Asia-Pacific region. China needs
to prevent its dispute with Vietnam from negatively affecting its regional
strategy. One possible choice for China is to influence Vietnam's attitude
toward it through multiple channels. Opinions differ on the issue inside
Vietnam, and China needs to let more Vietnamese politicians know it is better to
cooperate with China than to oppose it.

Global Times (Chinese edition), Aug 27

As its dispute with China continues, Vietnam obviously hopes to curb its
negative effect upon bilateral economic cooperation, and avoid China diminishing
investment in Vietnam - that's why it has sent a special envoy. However, neither
China nor Vietnam will make major concessions on the root cause of tensions in
mutual relations, namely their territorial dispute. Therefore the visit of the
special envoy is rather a gesture.

finance.ifeng.com, Aug 27

The relationship between China and Vietnam experienced a downturn in recent
months with their confrontation over China's drilling platform near the Xisha
Islands. However, Vietnam is not an enemy of China and its political forces that
advocate maintaining good relations with China are quite influential. China
should separate politics from the territorial dispute, and take the opportunity
to encourage these politicians to gain more influence so they can improve the
bilateral relationship.

Zhao Qiguang, professor at Carleton College, USA, ifeng TV, Aug 26

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 178 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Vietnam signals good will

LENGTH: 791  words


The fatal mid-may anti-china riots in Vietnam were so destructive that few will
anticipate a hasty two-day visit by a Vietnamese special envoy will suffice to
repair the damage.

Yes, Le Hong Anh is the fifth most powerful man in Vietnam. And visiting as
special envoy of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee, he is the
highest-ranking Vietnamese official to visit Beijing since the riots froze
bilateral ties.

Yes, as it has declared, Hanoi now wants to defrost ties. Whether it likes it or
not, its economic interdependence with China means it is difficult for Hanoi to
sustain a costly standoff.

Certainly Beijing is also interested in repairing strained relations, or Le
would not have visited and talked with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Angry as it
was at the riots and Hanoi's de facto acquiescence, Beijing knows hostility does
no good except further destabilizing the neighborhood, which serves neither
Vietnamese, nor Chinese interests.

China and Vietnam have not always been on good terms. But from thousands of
years of dealing with each other, they have learned the significance of
good-neighborliness. A near neighbor is better than a distant cousin; they know
this.

The biggest obstacle estranging the two has been their territorial dispute. Each
of their recent conflicts arose from there.

Territorial disputes can be furious, even fierce. But the successful North Bay
demarcation suggests that they do not have to be, as long as both sides can
demonstrate reason and sincerity. The latest row in the South China Sea has
escalated to such a degree because Hanoi has lost its mind with incitement from
outside.

Having fought with Beijing so many times, Hanoi should have learnt that although
Beijing will not hesitate to fight and defend its territorial integrity, it is
always open to consultations when it comes to territorial disputes.

What annoys Beijing the most, though, has been Hanoi's capriciousness and
duplicity regarding the dispute. The guarded optimism Beijing has displayed over
Le's visit reflects the prevailing suspicion that Hanoi's positive tune may
easily reverse at any time.

As a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman once said, Beijing cares more about what
Hanoi does than what it says.

As Le's visit indicates, the special kinship between the Chinese and Vietnamese
communist parties could offer an additional guarantee for bilateral
communication, making it easier for the two to address differences.

Hanoi's problem, however, is the illusion that outsider intervention can help it
win bigger through confronting Beijing.

Other Views

Focus on joint development

While sending a special envoy, Vietnam has neither strengthened nor altered its
standpoint in its dispute with China; so it is predictable that Vietnam will not
make big concessions but might adopt new strategies on the issue.

On the other hand, China should be clear that the situation in the South China
Sea is under control so it is not necessary to show strength. All it needs is to
better implement the principle of "setting aside disputes and pursuing joint
development", which is in accordance with the interests of all sides involved.

Xu Liping, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, cnr.com, Aug 26

The dispute between China and Vietnam is far more than a matter of the two
nations only and might concern even the whole Asia-Pacific region. China needs
to prevent its dispute with Vietnam from negatively affecting its regional
strategy. One possible choice for China is to influence Vietnam's attitude
toward it through multiple channels. Opinions differ on the issue inside
Vietnam, and China needs to let more Vietnamese politicians know it is better to
cooperate with China than to oppose it.

Global Times (Chinese edition), Aug 27

As its dispute with China continues, Vietnam obviously hopes to curb its
negative effect upon bilateral economic cooperation, and avoid China diminishing
investment in Vietnam - that's why it has sent a special envoy. However, neither
China nor Vietnam will make major concessions on the root cause of tensions in
mutual relations, namely their territorial dispute. Therefore the visit of the
special envoy is rather a gesture.

finance.ifeng.com, Aug 27

The relationship between China and Vietnam experienced a downturn in recent
months with their confrontation over China's drilling platform near the Xisha
Islands. However, Vietnam is not an enemy of China and its political forces that
advocate maintaining good relations with China are quite influential. China
should separate politics from the territorial dispute, and take the opportunity
to encourage these politicians to gain more influence so they can improve the
bilateral relationship.

Zhao Qiguang, professor at Carleton College, USA, ifeng TV, Aug 26

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
