



                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Open Source FOR You

                                February 1, 2016

How To OpenGurus: RIOT: An Operating System for the IoT

LENGTH: 1329  words


There are only a few operating systems that are suitable for Internet of Things
(IoT) applications. RIOT OS, which is free and open source, is specially
designed to meet the particular needs of the IoT, with features like a low
memory footprint, high energy efficiency, real-time capabilities, a modular and
configurable communication stack, and support for a wide range of low-power
devices.



The Internet of Things (IoT) is used with heteregenous devices, which range from
8-bit to 32-bit microcontrollers from different manufacturers.

Traditional operating systems or the conventional embedded OSs may not suit the
requirements that these tiny devices demand (low power, a small size and low
memory footprint).

The RIOT operating system is a free and open source architecture that is
friendly to IoT applications, and has proved to be a perfect OS for IoT systems.
Developed in 2008 as an OS for wireless sensor nodes, it was later fine tuned
for IoT systems.

Features of RIOT

The OS is actively developed and maintained.

* There are no new programming environments. C or C++ can be used directly with
existing tools like gcc, gdb, etc

* Less hardware dependent code

* Supports 8-,16- and 32-bit microcontroller platforms

* Energy efficieny is maintained

* Less interrupt latency, so real-time capability is ensured

* Multi-threading is enabled

* Supports the entire network stack of IoT (802.15.4 Zigbee, 6LoWPAN, ICMP6,
Ipv6, RPL, CoAP, etc)

* Both static and dynamic memory allocation

* POSIX compliant (partial)

* All output can be seen in the terminal if hardware is not available; however,
there is a visualisation tool called RIOT-TV that is provided

Architecture, board and driver support

It supports various architectures like

* MSP430

* ARM7

* Cortex-M0, M3 and M4

* x86, etc

It also supports the native port, where one can simulate the output within the
OS it is running. So RIOT is supported in Linux as well as OS X.

There are in-built drivers for the following sensors (without the need for
hardware, these sensors can be modelled in native mode also):

* Radio receivers

* Environmental sensors for humidity, temperature, pressure, alcohol, gas, etc

* Accelerometers

* Gyroscopes

* Ultrasonic sensors, light and servo motors

Most of the sensor boards like TelosB, ST, Zolertia, MSP 430, Arduino and Atmel
have support from this OS (and the list is quite long). RIOT also supports
virtualisation, where the code and application can run as a simple UNIX process.
It also uses Wireshark for packet sniffing.

Comparisons with Contiki OS and Tiny OS

There are two other OSs, called Contiki OS (already featured in OSFY) and Tiny
OS, which are suitable for IoT applications. But RIOT fares better when it comes
to memory usage and support.

Table 1 gives a comparision between these Oss.

Figures 1 and 2 represent the block and network stack diagram of the IoT. Except
for RPL, all modules have support from the RIOT OS (for RPL alone, there is
partial support from RIOT).

Installation of RIOT in Linux

The OS used for installation is Linux Mint 17.2 and Ubuntu 14.04.2, while the
architecture used is 64-bit OSs. The prerequisite packages for installing RIOT
are:

* msp 430 GCC compiler

* msp 430 libraries

* avr utils

* arm based gcc

* gcc multi-library, etc

Assuming that you have installed all just now, follow the steps shown below to
install RIOT:

pradeepkumar $] sudo apt-get update

pradeepkumar $] sudo apt-get install libc6-dev-i386 buildessential

binutils-msp430 gcc-msp430 msp430-libc libncurses5-

dev openjdk-7-jre openjdk-7-jdk avrdude avr-libc gcc-avr

gdb-avr binutils-avr mspdebug msp430mcu autoconf automake

libxmu-dev gcc-arm-none-eabi openocd git bridge-utils gccmultilib

socket

The OS can be downloaded as a zip file from Github (https://github.com/RIOT-OS/
RIOT/archive/master.zip); else, you can clone it using the following command:

pradeepkumar $] git clone https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT.git

The folder RIOT/ or RIOT-Master/ contains various sub-folders:

->boards: This folder has all the drivers for the boards that are supported by
the OS

->cpu: This folder contains the architecture supported by RIOT

->cores: This has the core of the OS, like kernel, modules, etc

->doc: This folder contains documentation

->examples: Some examples like 'hello world', border router, Ipv6 formation, etc


->drivers: This one has drivers' for all the sensors, etc

A simple example

These types of OSs can be learnt and understood only through the examples given
within the source code of the application. RIOT has some examples in the
examples/ folder, and one can go through the source code and run it using the
following method. There are more examples available in the Github of RIOT
(https://github.com/RIOT-OS).

If sufficient board or hardware is not available, then the code can be run in
the terminal itself (native mode).

To run the 'hello-world' example from the examples folder, use the following
code:

pradeepkumar $] cd RIOT-Master/examples/hello-world

pradeepkumar $] make flash

pradeepkumar $] make term

-----OUTPUT-----

/home/pradeepkumar/RIOT-master/examples/hello-world/bin/

native/hello-world.elf

RIOT native interrupts/signals initialized.

LED_GREEN_OFF

LED_RED_ON

RIOT native board initialized.

RIOT native hardware initialization complete.

main(): This is RIOT! (Version: UNKNOWN (builddir: /home/

pradeepkumar/RIOT-master))

Hello World!

You are running RIOT on a(n) native board.

This board features a(n) native MCU.

Press Ctl+C to quit the application

make flash will compile and show the text and the size of the data occupied by
the memory. Since this application is run under native mode, the output can be
viewed using the make term command (refer Figures 3 and 4).

Networking applications in RIOT

There are a few applications available in RIOT. One such app is a socket
application, which works with the POSIX API with UDP as the protocol. All the
relevant source code is available in the directory itself.

pradeepkumar $ ] cd RIOT-Master/examples/posix-socket/

pradeepkumar $ ] make flash

[1] http://www.riot-os.org/

[2] http://www.riot-os.org/docs/riot-infocom2013-abstract.pdf

[3] http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.

jsp?arnumber=5355049

[4] https://hal.inria.fr/hal-00768685/

By: T.S. Pradeepkumar

The author is a faculty member in the Chennai campus of VIT

University, where he deploys e-learning software such as Moodle

and others, to make the campus paper-free. He can be contacted

at pradeepkumarts@gmail.com and through his websites,

http://www.nsnam.com and http://www.linuxasaservice.com

pradeepkumar $ ] sudo make term

output of the above command

/home/pradeepkumar/RIOT-master/examples/posix_sockets/bin/

native/posix_sockets.elf tap0

RIOT native interrupts/signals initialized.

LED_GREEN_OFF

LED_RED_ON

RIOT native board initialized.

RIOT native hardware initialization complete.

main(): This is RIOT! (Version: UNKNOWN (builddir: /home/

pradeepkumar/RIOT-master))

RIOT socket example application

All up, running the shell now

> help

udp send data over UDP and listen on UDP

ports

reboot Reboot the node

ps Prints information about running

threads.

random_init initializes the PRNG

random_get returns 32 bit of pseudo randomness;

ifconfig Configure network interfaces

txtsnd send raw data

ncache manage neighbor cache by hand

routers IPv6 default router list

Figure 5 shows the above configuration; routers can be configured, text messages
can be sent and details about running processes can be searched using this
application.

There are only a limited number of OSs available for IoT sensors and, among
these, RIOT really has a welldocumented API with huge support for most of the
boards, architecture and sensors. Its main advantages are that it is actively
developed and maintained, and there is an incremental version every month.
Students and electronics hobbyists/enthusiasts are using Arduino and Raspberry
Pi for their IoT applications these days, and RIOT really helps these boards and
sensors to achieve a low memory footprint and high energy efficiency without any
compromises on the performance of the IoT systems.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

How we can stop communal riots

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, Jan. 27 -- It is very painful to hear about communal riots in
Bangladesh. Riots are crime and it is much heinous when it is of communal type.
Millions of people were killed in Hindu-Muslim riots during Partition and there
seems no end to this criminality in the subcontinent even today.

Reasons for these riots are political and economic but criminals put "religious
and cultural attire" on these.

Rioting after the farcical election of January 05 is highly political. But why
do they attack these innocent people? Because, they are Hindus? Does Muslim
religion permit waging riots against anybody? And why don't they attack their
poor Muslim opponents? We know, they do that too but why so fiercely when the
targets are Hindus?

Is it impossible to find out the culprits who wage riots? Can't the ordinary
people, say a small shopkeeper or a primary school teacher of the riot-affected
area, tell you about the people who waged riots after the January 05 election?
Or, aren't there people who can tell us exactly about the people responsible for
Ramu riots of September 2012?

But it is politics and political considerations that make it impossible to bring
the culprits to justice and punish them so that they never commit such offence
in the future. Take the case of Ramu riots of September 2012. The government
arrested 300 people but no proper action has been taken as yet. Let us now
consider a few actions that government can initiate to stop communal riots:

a) A riot prevention committee for each Union Parishad and in each ward in a
town and city: This committee will be responsible to find out the criminals who
instigate and take part in riots. School teachers of each Union Parishad could
be members of fact-finding committees and they may work in close cooperation
with local administration such as Union Parishad Chairman, O.C of local police
station, Upazila chairmen and the Upazila nirbahi officer to identify culprits
and the instigators.

b. Local administration as preventers and protectors of riot victims: The local
administration will not only be the protectors of riot victims but active
preventers of riots and should be responsible for any riot under its
administration.

c. Community punishment for riots: The most effective weapon for riot prevention
will be community punishment. Everybody in an area where riot occurs shall be
held responsible and community punishment could be a weapon to combat riots.

gtmail@telia.com

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Financial Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

A strange fire

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 1458  words


Why the Muzaffarnagar riots were a departure from past trends.

In several respects, the recent communal violence in Muzaffarnagar had the
classic features of a riot. The immediate cause appeared to be the stalking or
harassment of a "girl" by young men of another community, a common trope in
riots. There is a dispute about whether this harassment, or a motorbike
collision between individuals of two different communities, led to the killings.
Contesting narratives of this sort are also a recurrent feature of riots.
Finally, it is said, local politicians made provocative speeches, and loud music
blared in front of a mosque at the time of prayer. Music before mosques (or cow
slaughter) and inflammatory speeches by political or religious leaders, too, are
routinely associated with riots.

But, fundamentally, the Muzaffarnagar riots departed from our existing script of
understanding. Over the last 15 to 20 years, ethnic conflict in different parts
of the world, including India, has been studied extensively. We know a lot, but
no theory could have confidently predicted the Muzaffarnagar riots. We should,
of course, note that predictive accuracy is not a good way to judge social
science theories. As in biology, social science theories tend to be
probabilistic, indicating the odds, not proposing certainties.  Just as not
everybody who smokes cigarettes would get cancer, though a lot would, social
science theories are better at explaining central tendencies, not departures
from them. We just can't get the precision of physics.

Nonetheless, we need to understand why the Muzaffarnagar riots were unusual and
examine their larger implications. Why were these riots surprising?

First, the Muzaffarnagar riots were mostly rural. While civil wars tend to be
rural, riots are primarily urban. Why this is so is aptly summarised by a
modern-day classic, The Logic of Violence in Civil War, by Stathis Kalyvas. In
civil wars, the insurgents generally attack the sovereignty of the state. They
need to hide from the might of the state to attack it well; villages, mountains
and forests provide better hideouts for planning and protection than cities. In
comparison, rioters attack communities, not the sovereignty of the state.
Rioters are armed with lesser weapons, and houses in urban bylanes are a good
enough cover.

Second, prejudice of various sorts might be widely prevalent in Indian villages,
but the countryside tends to have caste violence, not Hindu-Muslim riots. And
when they do take place, rural riots tend to be small. In the period, 1950-1995,
for which Steven Wilkinson and I constructed a dataset, rural deaths accounted
for a mere 4-8 per cent of the total deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots
(goo.gl/c1MkvZ). Killing anywhere between 40-50 people, if not more, the
Muzaffarnagar riots were big. India has had big rural riots before - in
Bhagalpur (1989), Gujarat (2002) and a few in the Northeast. But these were
exceptions to the larger reality of urban riots.  The Muzaffarnagar riots belong
to this exceptional category.

Third, riots also affected the city of Muzaffarnagar. Hindu-Muslim relations in
Muzaffarnagar town have historically been calm. For communal violence, Aligarh
and Meerut were the two worst cities in western Uttar Pradesh during 1950-95.
But as I demonstrated in my book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and
Muslims in India, neighbouring towns often continue to maintain their divergent
characteristics. Next to the riot-prone Aligarh is the peaceful Bulandshahr;
adjacent to Meerut are Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar, both customarily tranquil.
The Muzaffarnagar riots departed from the historical trend.

Fourth, while my own book was about urban, not rural, riots, there is a major
argument in the field, by Wilkinson, which applies to rural settings as well. In
Votes and Violence, Wilkinson argues that communal riots are unlikely to break
out in a state where the government is heavily based on minority support. To
keep the minority vote intact, the government would use its might to stop or
contain riots.   The Samajwadi Party runs UP's government; it depends heavily on
Muslim support, yet riots took place, killing a large number of Muslims. One big
exception, of course, does not invalidate a probabilistic theory, but it should
be noted that ever since the SP government came to power, small riots have been
occurring in UP with considerable regularity. A minority-dependent government
seems unwilling, or unable, to stop them.

Finally, another piece of scholarly wisdom is partly breached. At higher levels
of income, riots decline in frequency and intensity. France did have riots in
2005, and the US in the 1960s and again in 1992 in Los Angeles, but such rioting
is episodic. In contrast, riots can be endemic at low levels of income. At
higher levels of income, communal or racial prejudice may continue, but
resentments, when violent, take the form of terror or hate crimes (which are
individual acts of violence), not riots. As the Indian economy grew at high
rates over the last decade and as big riots also disappeared after Gujarat 2002,
India seemed to follow the larger comparative script.

One big riot, again, does not undermine the larger income-based argument, but
why did Muzaffarnagar burn? Might that happen again?

Press reports are normally the first drafts of history. These drafts suggest a
hypothesis - and that is all we have at present. As national elections come
closer, political parties might have, yet again, begun to think of riots as an
attempt to create winning coalitions. During the late 1980s through 2002,
communal polarisation was used to enlarge political constituencies. Is such
polarisation under way in UP today? Is it of any use, especially to the SP and
BJP?

The Muslim vote has always been central to the SP's electoral performance. Press
analysis suggests that the SP's strategy is to allow riots to take place and
then present itself as a saviour of Muslims. If true, this diabolical chessboard
strategy can go horribly wrong on the ground. Once riots begin, they don't
necessarily stay small. If too many Muslim lives are lost, insecure Muslims are
unlikely to view the SP as a protective shield against larger threats. They can
easily desert the SP, blaming it for administrative failures, even malevolent
intentionality. A large proportion of UP Muslims, after all, left the Congress
in the late 1980s, when it could not stop riots.

What about the BJP? We know that UP is critical to the national ambitions of the
BJP. The BJP under Modi would like to go from 116 seats (2009) to 180-190 (in
2014). Otherwise, it can't attract post-election allies and form the government.
Without a tripling or quadrupling of BJP seats in UP, such an increase is
virtually inconceivable.

With only 10 out of 80 seats, the BJP finished fourth in UP in 2009, but both in
1996 and 1998, it had more than 50 seats. The 50-plus performance was due -
considerably if not wholly - to a communal polarisation of the electorate that
the Ayodhya movement had made possible.

With or without Ayodhya, is that the BJP strategy in UP again?  Amit Shah's
appointment has led to widespread speculation that that is indeed the case. But
it is hard to believe that while economic growth and governance will constitute
Modi's election campaign for India, there will be a reversion to the 1980s and
1990s in UP (and/ or Bihar). This is not a paradox but a flat contradiction.
Communal polarisation will almost certainly be accompanied by violence; riding
the communal tiger never allows full control over the dangerous beast. While the
BJP may attract many Hindu votes in UP this way, it will also lose a substantial
number of those attracted to Modi for non-communal, governance reasons, both in
UP and beyond. The net seat gain may well turn out to be small, while the ghosts
of Gujarat 2002 will return to haunt Modi's future even more vigorously.

It is best to hope that as he wishes to scale national heights, Modi will not
take a gamble of this magnitude. At present, one should believe that, if true,
the BJP's involvement in Muzaffarnagar was orchestrated not by the party
principals at the top, but by their local agents. If this hypothesis is wrong,
India may well be poised for a reversal of the decade-long communal peace.
Self-defeating politics can, of course, prove all theories wrong, but it would
be facile to assume that, given its desire for power, the BJP will devise a
strategy that is likely to lead to defeat again.

The writer is Sol Goldman Professor of International Studies and the Social
Sciences at Brown University, where he also directs the India Initiative at the
Watson Institute. He is a contributing editor for 'The Indian Express'
express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Riots dampen country's investment climate

BYLINE: Zhang Jianhua in Hanoi

LENGTH: 786  words


Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Riots dampen country's investment climate

BYLINE: Zhang Jianhua in Hanoi

LENGTH: 786  words


Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Riots dampen country's investment climate

BYLINE: Zhang Jianhua in Hanoi

LENGTH: 762  words


Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

Wen Yong, a Chinese businessman in Vietnam's southern Binh Duong province,
recalled the horror on May 13 when anti-China riots broke out there.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

A strange fire

LENGTH: 1442 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Sept. 25 -- In several respects, the recent communal violence in
Muzaffarnagar had the classic features of a riot. The immediate cause appeared
to be the stalking or harassment of a "girl" by young men of another community,
a common trope in riots. There is a dispute about whether this harassment, or a
motorbike collision between individuals of two different communities, led to the
killings. Contesting narratives of this sort are also a recurrent feature of
riots. Finally, it is said, local politicians made provocative speeches, and
loud music blared in front of a mosque at the time of prayer. Music before
mosques (or cow slaughter) and inflammatory speeches by political or religious
leaders, too, are routinely associated with riots.

But, fundamentally, the Muzaffarnagar riots departed from our existing script of
understanding. Over the last 15 to 20 years, ethnic conflict in different parts
of the world, including India, has been studied extensively. We know a lot, but
no theory could have confidently predicted the Muzaffarnagar riots. We should,
of course, note that predictive accuracy is not a good way to judge social
science theories. As in biology, social science theories tend to be
probabilistic, indicating the odds, not proposing certainties. Just as not
everybody who smokes cigarettes would get cancer, though a lot would, social
science theories are better at explaining central tendencies, not departures
from them. We just can't get the precision of physics.

Nonetheless, we need to understand why the Muzaffarnagar riots were unusual and
examine their larger implications. Why were these riots surprising?

First, the Muzaffarnagar riots were mostly rural. While civil wars tend to be
rural, riots are primarily urban. Why this is so is aptly summarised by a
modern-day classic, The Logic of Violence in Civil War, by Stathis Kalyvas. In
civil wars, the insurgents generally attack the sovereignty of the state. They
need to hide from the might of the state to attack it well; villages, mountains
and forests provide better hideouts for planning and protection than cities. In
comparison, rioters attack communities, not the sovereignty of the state.
Rioters are armed with lesser weapons, and houses in urban bylanes are a good
enough cover.

Second, prejudice of various sorts might be widely prevalent in Indian villages,
but the countryside tends to have caste violence, not Hindu-Muslim riots. And
when they do take place, rural riots tend to be small. In the period, 1950-1995,
for which Steven Wilkinson and I constructed a dataset, rural deaths accounted
for a mere 4-8 per cent of the total deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots
(goo.gl/c1MkvZ). Killing anywhere between 40-50 people, if not more, the
Muzaffarnagar riots were big. India has had big rural riots before - in
Bhagalpur (1989), Gujarat (2002) and a few in the Northeast. But these were
exceptions to the larger reality of urban riots. The Muzaffarnagar riots belong
to this exceptional category.

Third, riots also affected the city of Muzaffarnagar. Hindu-Muslim relations in
Muzaffarnagar town have historically been calm. For communal violence, Aligarh
and Meerut were the two worst cities in western Uttar Pradesh during 1950-95.
But as I demonstrated in my book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and
Muslims in India, neighbouring towns often continue to maintain their divergent
characteristics. Next to the riot-prone Aligarh is the peaceful Bulandshahr;
adjacent to Meerut are Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar, both customarily tranquil.
The Muzaffarnagar riots departed from the historical trend.

Fourth, while my own book was about urban, not rural, riots, there is a major
argument in the field, by Wilkinson, which applies to rural settings as well. In
Votes and Violence, Wilkinson argues that communal riots are unlikely to break
out in a state where the government is heavily based on minority support. To
keep the minority vote intact, the government would use its might to stop or
contain riots. The Samajwadi Party runs UP's government; it depends heavily on
Muslim support, yet riots took place, killing a large number of Muslims. One big
exception, of course, does not invalidate a probabilistic theory, but it should
be noted that ever since the SP government came to power, small riots have been
occurring in UP with considerable regularity. A minority-dependent government
seems unwilling, or unable, to stop them.

Finally, another piece of scholarly wisdom is partly breached. At higher levels
of income, riots decline in frequency and intensity. France did have riots in
2005, and the US in the 1960s and again in 1992 in Los Angeles, but such rioting
is episodic. In contrast, riots can be endemic at low levels of income. At
higher levels of income, communal or racial prejudice may continue, but
resentments, when violent, take the form of terror or hate crimes (which are
individual acts of violence), not riots. As the Indian economy grew at high
rates over the last decade and as big riots also disappeared after Gujarat 2002,
India seemed to follow the larger comparative script.

One big riot, again, does not undermine the larger income-based argument, but
why did Muzaffarnagar burn? Might that happen again?

Press reports are normally the first drafts of history. These drafts suggest a
hypothesis - and that is all we have at present. As national elections come
closer, political parties might have, yet again, begun to think of riots as an
attempt to create winning coalitions. During the late 1980s through 2002,
communal polarisation was used to enlarge political constituencies. Is such
polarisation under way in UP today? Is it of any use, especially to the SP and
BJP?

The Muslim vote has always been central to the SP's electoral performance. Press
analysis suggests that the SP's strategy is to allow riots to take place and
then present itself as a saviour of Muslims. If true, this diabolical chessboard
strategy can go horribly wrong on the ground. Once riots begin, they don't
necessarily stay small. If too many Muslim lives are lost, insecure Muslims are
unlikely to view the SP as a protective shield against larger threats. They can
easily desert the SP, blaming it for administrative failures, even malevolent
intentionality. A large proportion of UP Muslims, after all, left the Congress
in the late 1980s, when it could not stop riots.

What about the BJP? We know that UP is critical to the national ambitions of the
BJP. The BJP under Modi would like to go from 116 seats (2009) to 180-190 (in
2014). Otherwise, it can't attract post-election allies and form the government.
Without a tripling or quadrupling of BJP seats in UP, such an increase is
virtually inconceivable.

With only 10 out of 80 seats, the BJP finished fourth in UP in 2009, but both in
1996 and 1998, it had more than 50 seats. The 50-plus performance was due -
considerably if not wholly - to a communal polarisation of the electorate that
the Ayodhya movement had made possible.

With or without Ayodhya, is that the BJP strategy in UP again? Amit Shah's
appointment has led to widespread speculation that that is indeed the case. But
it is hard to believe that while economic growth and governance will constitute
Modi's election campaign for India, there will be a reversion to the 1980s and
1990s in UP (and/ or Bihar). This is not a paradox but a flat contradiction.
Communal polarisation will almost certainly be accompanied by violence; riding
the communal tiger never allows full control over the dangerous beast. While the
BJP may attract many Hindu votes in UP this way, it will also lose a substantial
number of those attracted to Modi for non-communal, governance reasons, both in
UP and beyond. The net seat gain may well turn out to be small, while the ghosts
of Gujarat 2002 will return to haunt Modi's future even more vigorously.

It is best to hope that as he wishes to scale national heights, Modi will not
take a gamble of this magnitude. At present, one should believe that, if true,
the BJP's involvement in Muzaffarnagar was orchestrated not by the party
principals at the top, but by their local agents. If this hypothesis is wrong,
India may well be poised for a reversal of the decade-long communal peace.
Self-defeating politics can, of course, prove all theories wrong, but it would
be facile to assume that, given its desire for power, the BJP will devise a
strategy that is likely to lead to defeat again.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Pakistani TV show discusses UK riots

LENGTH: 1171 words


Geo News TV in Urdu at 1800 gmt on 10 August carries live regularly scheduled
program, "Aapas Ki Baat" hosted by Muneeb Farooq and Najam Sethi. The program
brings in-depth analysis on burning issues faced by Pakistan. Words within
double slanted lines are in English.

Program: "Aapas Ki Baat"

Duration: 60 minutes

Reception: Good

Farooq begins the program referring to London riots. Farooq says that three
Pakistanis have also lost their lives in Birmingham as the riots are no more
confined to London. Farooq adds that today [ 10 August] they will discuss the
cause and background of riots in the United Kingdom. Farooq further says: "Riots
have caused concern among Pakistanis in the United Kingdom. More than 1,000
people have been arrested and around 100 have been indicted by London police so
far. Meanwhile, the United States is facing economic crisis these days." Farooq
adds that they will also discuss the United States' //credit rating//. Farooq
further says that they will discuss whether the domestic economic crisis will
affect President Obama's chances to be elected as president for the second term.

Segment I

Farooq asks Sethi how he views the London riots. Sethi says, "Riots in the
United Kingdom are a historical phenomenon. Though terrorism does not exist in
the United Kingdom but history tells that outbreak of riots is quite usual.
Numerous books are available on the //phenomenon of riots// in the United
Kingdom. Sometimes riots are triggered by football matches as British people are
extremely passionate about football. Another kind of riots in the United Kingdom
are called //Ghetto riots//. These riots are related to immigrants. Some
poverty-stricken immigrants live in specific areas in the United Kingdom.
//Unemployment// and poverty are the main problems of those immigrants. Ghetto
riots take place mostly in industrial cities of the United Kingdom, for example,
Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds."

Continuing, Sethi says "According to London Police, the man killed by them was
carrying a weapon. Keeping weapons is strictly forbidden in the United Kingdom.
The exchange of fire between the police and the murdered man is in itself an
//extraordinary// incident by the standards of the British society. Youngsters
who are involved in riots are not related to a specific group in terms of
religion, race, color, or nationality; instead, what is common in them is that
they belong to //lower middle class//. The United Kingdom, Europe, and the
United States are again embroiled in economic crisis. People are getting
frustrated and angry with their governments due to their economic difficulties."
Sethi says: "Let us baptize these riots as //consumer riots//." Sethi adds that
according to Amazon.co.uk, an online retail outlet, more than 5,000 cricket bats
have been bought during the last 48 hours to break windows of shops in London
and other cities of the United Kingdom and loot shop items. Sethi reveals that
the main target of these raging youngsters is the shops that sell clothes and
electronic items.

Farooq plays a video report on riots in the United Kingdom. The report says that
according to the UK police, the riots and violence in London and Manchester are
extraordinary. The report quotes police sources as saying that they are trying
to make every possible effort to control riots. The report further says that it
has become a challenge for police to control riots in Manchester, Liverpool,
Nottingham, and Birmingham. Many shopkeepers are in shock to see their shops
destroyed and property looted. The report adds that police has arrested more
than 750 people so far. British people are asking the Army to control the
situation.

Farooq asks Sethi whether he sees any ethnic factor in these riots. Sethi says:
"At the moment he does not see any ethnic factor. These riots were triggered by
the death of a person, but the protest against the murder soon changed into
consumer riots. Sikh and Muslim communities cooperate with each other in the
United Kingdom and they have constituted groups to resist thieves and burglars.
They stand together to protect their worship places as well as their shops and
businesses. Both Muslim and Sikh minorities are against plunder and violence and
they are not backing the rioters in the current phase of unrest; so perhaps this
is one reason why Pakistanis got killed during these riots.Both the communites
are reluctant to take part in stealing of shop items, which is why raging
youngsters are getting annoyed with Pakistanis.

Segment II

Farooq says that the United States is also hit by economic crisis and it has
lost its //credit rating//. Sethi says: "The United States is also facing
economic crisis and thousands of US citizens are jobless. Outbreak of consumer
riots in the United States cannot be ruled out. Unemployment and poverty are at
worse in areas where blacks are in majority. //Lower middle class// of the
United States is mainly comprised of black people. The US police will be very
aggressive to control possible riots. White Americans can also take part in
violence and riots as they are frustrated due to negative impact of capitalism.
Violence in the United States in the wake of economic crisis will create a
dangerous situation; however, the state police are strong and respond instantly
and ruthlessly."

Farooq asks Sethi why the United States has lost its credit rating. Sethi says
that the United States used to enjoy //AAA// credit rating since 1920s until
recently, due to its economic strength. Sethi says: "The United States' credit
rating has gone from //AAA// to //AA// for the first time. The United States'
Gross Domestic Product [GDP] is $14 trillion and debt is $13 trillion; so debt
to GDP ratio is almost 95 percent. The Republican Party, which holds majority in
the Congress, is trying to somehow thwart President Obama's plan to get elected
as president for the second term. Rightwing white Americans are reluctant to be
led by a black president for four more years. The Republicans are resisting
President Obama's plan to increase tax on rich people and cut the //defense
expenditure//. The expenditure on Afghan War has played a key role in
deterioration of the US economy."

Segment III

Farooq says that according to reports the United States is pressurizing Pakistan
to become a signatory to the Conference of Disarmament Treaty and stop producing
nuclear weapons in abundance. Sethi says: "The United States wants //stockpile//
of nuclear products to be reduced on international level and seeks contribution
of countries capable of producing nuclear weapons. President Obama wants to
impose ban on production of nuclear weapons around the globe. The United States
also wants Pakistan to stop //uranium and plutonium enrichment//. Pakistan has
reservations on India's stockpile. The United States is trying to use the
Security Council to pressurize Pakistan in this regard. China is likely to
support Pakistan on this issue.

Farooq concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1800gmt 10 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

Unrest in Vietnam shatters investor confidence

BYLINE: Li Wenfang in Guangzhou and Chen Hong in Shenzhen

LENGTH: 600  words


Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

Fatal riots in Vietnam have eroded the interest of some Chinese companies in
investing in the country, according to a garment industry official.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Communal Riots reached Muzaffarnagar from Gujrath- Harsh Mandar

LENGTH: 1382 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Oct. 2 -- Noted Social Activist, Mr. Harsh Mandar, a former IAS
officer told that opportunistic politics should be rejected in order to keep the
country free from Communal Riots. A political system which refrains from taking
support from the voters on communal grounds should be promoted. Mr. Harsh Mandar
was addressing a public meeting at Mahboob Husain Jigar Hall, Siasat Office
Complex, Hyderabad. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan, Editor of Siasat Urdu Daily presided
over the meeting.

Continuing his speech, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that Constitution of India
guarantees equal rights to every citizen but we see that whatever promises have
been made in the Constitution are being shattered which is posing a danger to
the solidarity of the country. The happiest think is that still the judiciary is
independent. The people responsible for Genocide have to be answerable at
somewhere or the other. The Human Rights organizations have dragged the
miscreants of Gujrath Communal Riots to the courts and the manner in which the
courts have dealt with these cases had given a hope that Communal Riots would
disappear somewhere in the pages of history but the recurrence of Communal Riots
in Muzaffarnagar has shown that it has not stopped. He further told that the
miscreants who engineered Communal Riots in Gujrath have changed their style.
They have minimized the loss of human lives but they have damaged properties of
the Muslims to the maximum possible extend and they have terrified them so that
they were forced to leave their native places. Another significant thing is that
the origin of Communal Riots this time is not Urban area but it has been
extended to cover Rural areas as well.

Explaining the planning of Communal Riots, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that for the
Communal Riots to erupt, there are three motives. Before the communal riots
takes place the atmosphere is charged with hatred and then the spark of communal
riots is ignited. For elongating the communal riots, the consent of the Govt. is
essential. Citing his own experience as an administrator, he told that the Govt.
needs hardly six hours to control communal riots but when the communal riots
continue for weeks and months, it should construed that Govt. itself wants to
continue communal riots. He told that the communal riot of Muzaffarnagar was a
planned one and it was designed by UP Govt. It was the plan of the Govt. to
ignite communal riots on a smaller scale but the situation went out of its
control.

Mr. Narendra Modi had sent Mr. Amit Shah two months before his visit to UP.
Communal Riots were ignited under the pretext of the false propaganda that two
vehicles belonging to different communities got collided and that was the root
cause of the conflict. By showing the false video clipping, propaganda was made
that one Mr. Sachin was killed who was trying to protect the honour of his
sister. TV already clarified that in this conflict the assassin, Shahnawaz had
neither love affair with the girl nor he used to tease her but he was a complete
stranger. After this incident Khap Panchayath (Save daughter, Save
dauther-in-law) was held in which hatred was promoted. Those came out of
panchayath meeting started destroying Muslim localities. The BJP MLA who misused
the fake video clipping of Sialkot (Pakistan) incident and spread hatred was
arrested yesterday where he should have been arrested long back. Had Govt. taken
active steps to expose the facts and arrested the miscreants who spread venom,
the communal riots could not have been prolonged. He further told that the local
resident told that police was acting like silent spectators. The fact is there
was no firing incident and no lathi charge. Govt. failed to take precautionary
measures and after the eruption of communal riot, it failed to control it. After
the communal riots, Govt. neither did relief work nor gave any ex-gratia to the
victims which is the prime duty of any Govt. In the communal riots of
Muzaffarnagar, more than 50 thousand Muslims were dislodged from their houses.
They are so afraid that they are not prepared to go to their villages. These
communal riots were engineered with an objective of getting the support of
voters on communal grounds. The beauty of BSP was that it had controlled
communal riots.

Stressing the need to implement communal riots bill, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that
in the proposed bill, administration was given more powers earlier whereas we
wanted the Govt. to make administration accountable. The officials who are
negligent in performing their duties during communal riots should be punished.
Action should be taken against the in charge of Military Contingent. We proposed
that the erring officers should be given five years imprisonment so that with
the fear of this punishment, the officers should not neglect taking action
against the miscreant.

Mr. Zahid Ali Khan editor of Siasat in his presidential remarks told that the
Chief Ministers of various States addressed the meeting of National Integration
Council in the wake of Muffarnagar communal riots. Most of them mentioned the
facilities that are given to the Muslims. The best thing Mr. Nitesh Kumar, C.M.
of Bihar told was that in his childhood the festivals which used to be
celebrated in his house are now being celebrated on the roads which are causing
communal riots. He stressed the need to put a ban on such festivals or they
should be celebrated. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan further told that Dr. M. Chenna Reddy,
the former C.M. of A.P. encouraged Ganesh festival. He also pointed out that we
celebrate Milad-un-nabi festival on a grand scale and we erect the large size
cutout of the tomb of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) which is not appropriate. We
should keep these sacred pictures in our houses and we should take care of their
sanctity. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan further told that everyone in the meeting of NIC
was taking about pleasing the Muslims but he believed that instead of talking
about pleasing a notifications and announcements, justice should done to the
Muslims and their wakf properties should be protected. Only by protecting wakf
properties, the problems of the Muslims could be resolved. He wished Mr. Harsh
Mandar to draft Hyderabad Charter for prevention of communal riots bill.

Mr. Syed Vikharuddin Quadri, editor of Rahnuma-e-Deccan told that Communal riots
could be controlled if Govt. wants to do so but stern action is evaded against
the miscreants. He told that the history of communal riots is very long in this
country in which the role of administration has always been suspicious.

Mr. Syed Aziz Pasha, former Rajya Sabha MP of CPI told that Muslims had extended
mass support to SP but within a short span of one year, 47 communal riots took
place and the Govt. failed to control them. It is wrong to presume that the
people of UP are communal. The voters of UP rejected Mr. Kalyan Singh, the then
C.M. of UP saying that he had contacted the people of UP that he had fulfilled
his promise.

Former MP of Rajya Sabha, Mr. P. Madhu told that the communal riots of
Muzaffarnagar are a warning for all of us. The role of the State Govt. in
controlling communal riots has been suspicious. He alleged that RSS and VHP have
been a free hand. Mr. Mahmood Ali, TRS MLC told that we are more concerned about
the unity of the people rather than getting Telangana. Mr. Hamid Mohammed Khan,
President of Movement for Peace and Justice told that the communal forces are
not only active in political field but the younger generation who passed out
from Saraswathi Shishu Mandir are actively engaged in more than 150 fields.
These activists are present in all the political parties but the positive think
is that humanists like Mr. Harsh Mandar exists in society who struggle for
seeking justice for the victims.

Mr. Yousuf Quraishi, former Chairman of A.P. State Minorities Commission told
that Mr. Zahid Ali Khan and Siasat Urdu Daily are always on the forefront in
such social activities to maintain communal harmony and to seek justice for the
victims. Mr. Muneeruddin Mujahid conducted the meeting and thanked the guests
and the audience.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Are UP communal riots result of vote bank politics?;
Intelligence agencies have indicated that there is a predetermined political
design behind the recent communal riots in Muzaffarnagar. They have also warned
that such communal riots can also take place in Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhya
Pradesh, Karnataka and...

BYLINE: Rajesh Rao & Sanchari Ghosh

LENGTH: 950  words


It's a trend to take an emotional issue and flare it up for political gains

Communal riots or any riots, do not erupt on its own, it is instigated by people
themselves. Especially, with communal riots there is always a prior planning. As
communal riots have taken an ugly turn in the last few days, with people losing
their lives, there is no doubt that it has been instigated as a predetermined
political design looking at the upcoming 2014 general elections. It has always
been a trend to take an emotional issue and flare it up for political gains. For
example, in Sangli, Maharashtra, a temporary riot was instigated during last
Vidhan Sabha elections. Whether riots are there or not, the government's job is
to stop it from spreading further, but (Uttar Pradesh) UP government is unable
to do so. There is a political design behind every riot, that is why there is no
political will to pass the pending Prevention of Communal Riots Bill. The
communal riots in Muzaffarnagar did not take place overnight. There is always a
clue in the air before such tension starts, so why doesn't the government take
any prior measure to prevent them.

Anwar Rajan, senior member, Yuvak Kranti Dal

Riots become uglier, when leaders start making an issue out of it

It is very painful to see that humans are killing humans during riots. On
humanitarian grounds at least, we should not get down to such inhuman behaviour,
where we kill our own clan.

Communal riots become uglier, when politicians start making an issue out of it
for political gains. If the administration had been active, the recent riots in
UP would have never gone out of control. There is some leniency factor in the
recent communal riots. The government should have taken strict action against
the culprits, whether they are from Muslim or Hindu community. CM Akhilesh Yadav
should send a stern message to the conspirators of riots.

Azhar Ali Warsi, member, state advisory council, Jamaat-e-Islami

Political parties blame each other without finding a solution

What is happening in UP is clearly failure of the system. The bureaucracy is
demoralised and nobody wants to take a decision or action. They have only
transferred two officers, which is not going to rectify the problem. What we
need is to promote peace committees and use media to keep people away from
untoward instigations. There is no doubt that the spread of communal riots is
the result of vote bank politics. The political parties are blaming each other,
with no short-term or long-term solutions to curb the riots. UP government has
said that it has rounded up over 1000 people for rioting. However, just rounding
up people randomly is not going to resolve the issue. If the intelligence
agencies have given inputs that such riots can also happen in Rajasthan, Bihar,
Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and even Haryana, then the inputs need to be taken
seriously.

Madhav Godbole, former union home secretary

UP politicians are now relying on politics of religion

The last political event in UP was the suspension of IAS officer Durga Shakti
Nagpal, who was targeted by the state government allegedly because action taken
by her caused religious tension. The party in power attempted to correct her but
the political intention was clear in its action. UP politicians are relying on
politics of religion ahead of coming election. Today it is not difficult for the
administration to control riots, if they intend to. Calling the army to control
riots, shows that State is either incompetent to control rioters, or it is
deliberately turning a blind eye, keeping in mind the upcoming election. CM
declared to distribute laptops to youth before the election, the politics of
religion for vote is diametrically opposite to the promise he has made.

Vanisree Ramanathan, faculty, Political Science

Communal riots are taking place in a systematic manner

The recent spate of riots in UP and polarisation occurring on religious grounds
has gathered great attention ahead of Lok Sabha polls. While Samajwadi Party led
state government and other political parties INC, BJP, BSP blame each other for
the bloody conflict and the loss of lives, the larger point which is being
missed is that the communal riots have been occurring in certain parts of India
in a systematic manner since independence.

It has flourished as an institution and gets activated, as noted by the eminent
scholar Paul Brass, during periods of political mobilisation or during the time
of elections. Hence riots are far from being spontaneous and they are produced
in a theatrical style in terms of involvement of volunteers and adoption of
certain strategies.

Ever since the ascendency of Ajit Singh, his party, the Lok Dal has had a
tumultuous journey with frequent shuffling of political partners and seeking
alliances that would keep it buoyant in the murky politics of caste/clan and
religion.

While the Lok Dal's political formulation has largely shrunk in the present
scenario, it is yet to be seen if it is able to maintain its foothold, this time
when the Jats and Muslims have emerged as the main participants in the ongoing
conflict.

Containing communal conflagration depends on the political will of state
governments, so that their respective regions don't get inflamed. But the larger
question remains that the complicity of the state or political parties in
communal conflicts strips them of their neutrality and legitimacy, resulting in
various groups settling their disputes by extra-constitutional means.

Hence the development of a sustained culture of negotiation, tolerance and
accommodation is the need of the hour to address communalisation and
militarisation of society.

Radhakrishnan, political analyst

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

JK beats other states... in riots!

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: srinagar


srinagar, Oct. 28 -- As many as 1162 cases of riots were reported from J&K in
one year, as the Himalayan state surpassed several Indian states wherein such
incidents used to be a routine in the past.

While Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam have recorded the rate of
riots at 1.4, 2.1 and 7.6 percent respectively, Chandigarh, Goa and Gujarat have
3.2, 6.3 and 2.8 percent. In Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkand the rate of
riots has been recorded as 6.9, 5.8 and 6.6. While the central state of Madhya
Pradesh has recorded the percent of riots as mere 2.9 Maharashtra has 7.1 riots
rate and Manipur has 6.4. Mizoram, Meghalaya and Nagaland have recorded the
riots percentage as less than one percent.

On the other hand, J&K has this year topped the headlines due to the unrest that
engulfed it on July 8. The percentage of riots has gone to worrisome figures and
is leading ahead of several Indian states wherein such incidents used to be a
routine in the past.

As far as the union territories are concerned, the percent of riots in these
states also far less that what is being witnessed in Jammu and Kashmir. In
Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the percentage of riots has been recorded as 3.7
percent while as Union territory Chandigarh has 2.8 percent in its kitty. Delhi
has recorded the riots percentage as 0.6 percent. Similarly, Pondicherry has 2.6
percent of riots witnessed in one year.

Only Bihar, Karnataka and Kerala are the states that are leading ahead of Jammu
and Kashmir in terms of riots that have been witnessed there. While Bihar had
12.9 percent of riots rate, Karnataka had 10.9 and Kerala had 16.4 percent riots
rate.

According to the reports, most of the riots have been witnessed due to the
separatist violence that has been calling shots in Valley since decades. The
strike calls and protests have led to the numbers going up.

This year's rise in violence has led to the Home Ministry officials to find
nonlethal riot control options for Jammu and Kashmir.

Reports had earlier said that the authorities are looking for other alternatives
for the riot control including a smaller vehicle to mount water cannons. Such an
option is being discussed as the big water cannons like the ones used in plains
cannot be used in smaller lanes. It was informed further that before the water
canon is used the people will be warned the irritation and itching effect lasts
several days and they will be advised to disperse.

Also the long-range acoustic devices have already been deployed. The sound is so
intense that it disorients the stone pelters. The security forces are also
waiting for laser dazzler lights - which have a sudden blinding effect. Not even
wearing sunglasses would help.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2005 Monday

North Korea says French riots prove capitalist societies "decaying internally"

LENGTH: 875 words


Text of report by North Korean newspaper Nodong Sinmun on 14 November

The great leader Comrade Kim Jong-il [preceding name in bold as published] has
pointed out the following: "The developed capitalist countries may seem
prosperous on the surface but they are decaying internally because of
contradictions which are worsening with each passing day." [preceding quote in
bold as published]

According to news reports, there was an outbreak of a large riot in France
recently, which is attracting the attention of world opinion as it is creating
social chaos and raising a serious political problem. The riot stemmed from the
death of two juveniles from electric shock, which took place on the night of 27
October in an area in the northeastern suburb of Paris. The two boys, a
15-year-old and a 17-year-old, are said to have died miserably as they made
contact with electricity in a substation into which they jumped to elude police.

The two juveniles' electrocution death incident unexpectedly aroused great anger
among young people living in this city. The young people are rioting every
night, committing arsonous and plunderous acts everywhere. In some places,
bullets were reportedly fired at police forces, and police stations were
reportedly destroyed.

Police forces, equipped with shields, are shooting rubber bullets and tear gas
in an attempt to quell the riot. However, the flame of riot shows no sign of
stopping and is spreading to not only the central part of Paris and its
outskirts but also the entire country. According to news reports, the riot had
expanded to more than 20 cities as of 7 November.

According to foreign new reports, up until 7 [November], about 5,000 means of
transportation had been burned or destroyed, and 1,200 rioters had been
arrested. A large number of people were killed or injured. Many commercial
buildings were destroyed or burned. This riot in France is a large-scale riot
that has taken place for the first time since the 1968 riot by university
students, according to foreign news reports. The prevailing view among the
public is that the riot spreading in France is an explosion of social
contradictions.

First of all, social inequality is viewed as a cause of this riot. The area
where the riot first broke out is known to have much worse unemployment and
poverty than other areas. In this area, a large number of immigrants from North
Africa and their children are residing. An Asian person living in France spoke
of this riot as an explosion of emotions among the young people of various
strata who cultivated an antipathy towards authority after having long been
discriminated in employment. The next analysis is that the racial and religious
contradictions served as a cause of the riot's outbreak and spread.

Most of the immigrants and their children are said to believe in Islam. A
foreigner said that the French Government had generated a great deal of
contradictions by enforcing the "assimilation" policy towards them. Police
forces reportedly fired tear gas at an Islamic mosque in the process of putting
down the riot, and this reportedly infuriated many immigrants. In short, it was
like fanning the flame.

Another opinion suggests that the government's attitude when dealing with the
riot has caused the spread of the riot. In the early stage of the riot's
outbreak, the French interior minister, who was in charge of maintaining public
order, was reported to affront the young people who took part in the riot by
referring to them as "social scum". This further escalated the antipathy towards
the government among the young people.

According to a foreign journalist who interviewed some of the rioters, they
claimed that the French government had racial prejudice and treated them as
second-tier citizens. This shows that the riot was an explosion of social
contradictions. The French government declared a state of emergency on 8
[November] to put down the riot. The French premier said that his country was
"facing a decisive phase".

The premier and the interior minister of France postponed or cancelled their
previously arranged foreign visits. The French premier addressed the parliament
about the gravity of the situation and issues regarding the measures to bring it
under control, and he also reportedly discussed the incident with the young
people in the riot area.

One of France's opposition parties called for the interior minister's
resignation on the grounds that his policy, which was a revival of ultra
right-wing ideology [according to its claim], had created all the tense
situations and caused the results like the riot, and also argued that the French
government acknowledge its blunder and decisively change its policy on social
safety.

The after-effects of the riot that broke out in France are now spreading to
Germany, Belgium, and many other countries and cities of Europe. A string of
arson cases were reported in these cities. [We should] wait and see how the riot
in France will unfold from now on. But one thing that is clear is that in
capitalist societies fraught with an assortment of contradictions such as social
inequality and racial discrimination, an outbreak of incidents like the riot in
France is inevitable.

Source: Nodong Sinmun, Pyongyang, in Korean 14 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

London wildfire may spark rebirth, growth;
OPINION & ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Philip Dwyer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words


Riots sometimes mark needed change, writes Philip Dwyer. THE French have a
saying: "The more things change, the more they stay the same". The London riots
strike me as being similar to two other riots that have taken place in the not
too distant past, in Paris, and in Los Angeles. In Paris, as in London, the
riots were triggered by the deaths of two teenagers who were being chased by
police in a relatively underprivileged district (Clichy-sous-Bois) in October
2005. What started out as a protest against the deaths degenerated into two
weeks of rioting that spread to hundreds of cities and towns across France. They
resulted in 5200 arrests, 250 buildings destroyed and almost 10,000 cars burnt.

In LA, thousands took part in widespread rioting over a six-day period in April
and May 1992 when a jury acquitted three white and one Hispanic police officers
accused of beating Rodney King. A largely black population vented their rage and
frustration in a manner that makes the London riots pale in comparison. More
than $1 billion worth of property was damaged, thousands of people were injured,
and 53 people killed. As in London, looting was also a hallmark of the LA riots.
This has led some political commentators to comment on the moral decay of
British society. The more serious journalists do their best to understand cause
and effect, often bringing in experts to help explain the social, political or
economic factors behind the riots. They are supplemented by anecdotal reports
and interviews of politicians, police or people on the streets, who all have
their own views on why the rioting occurred in the first place, why it takes on
such proportions, and especially why it assumes the character that it does.
These vary from the "opportunistic criminal elements" decried by the right, to
the left invariably pointing to urban poverty, unemployment, substandard housing
and underfunded education systems as the explanation for the rioting. Just about
every commentator in the English-speaking world has felt compelled to explain
why these riots occur. The types of explanations offered range from the
breakdown of the family, the welfare system, "disenfranchised youths" who used
new media such as Facebook and Twitter to organise looting, to "copycat
rioting". Interestingly, exactly the same kinds of explanation recur every time
there is an urban conflagration. Of course, the reasons for the London riots
will be understood only with the passing of time, and mature reflection, but
this is hardly the first riot in the UK. Brixton immediately springs to mind. As
with similar riots in France and the US, a clear pattern is emerging. They occur
as a result of police shootings, or police chases that sometimes result in
death, or they can be triggered by trials when particular groups feel the
verdict is unjust. In the past few decades, then, the riots are triggered by
interactions between the police, or the judicial system, and local communities.
But it goes back even further than that. Riots have played an important part of
the history of Britain, France, the US, and even Australia. Think of the Boston
Tea Party or the Bastille. In Britain, there is a tradition of popular disorders
that can be traced back to the 17th century. Australian riots fall into that
tradition as well, from the Liverpool riots of 1916 to Newcastle's own 1979 Star
Hotel riot, which has the dubious distinction of being the largest in Australian
history. Riots are often about anger and frustration. In the case of London, it
is about the anger and frustration among a particular group of people who want
to feel accepted by the country in which they live, but who are not. Or at least
they do not feel as though they are accepted. The rioters usually belong to
marginalised groups with broken dreams and promises of integration that have not
materialised. Rioters express themselves not through words, but in their
actions. What they attack has meaning. Changes in behaviour during riots, from
attacking the police to looting in the case of London, are not random. They are
actually quite rational and, as we have seen, organised, targeting particular
areas and stores. There is, to use a stock phrase, "method in their madness".
That said, people involved in rioting can get carried away and do things that
they would never normally do. Looting appears to have been so prevalent during
the London riots that some otherwise "respectable" people put the normal rules
of society aside. Although incredibly violent and destructive, riots can also
lead to positive changes. Race riots can lead to attempts to bring about greater
racial harmony between the police and local communities; riots of the kind we
have witnessed in London can lead to urban renewal. Just as importantly, riots
can reveal significant social changes. It is salutary when riots do occur to
take a few steps back and reflect on what it might all mean. Philip Dwyer is
head of the Violence and Social Order Program in the Humanities Research
Institute at the University of Newcastle.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING RAGE: The focus changed from attacks to looting, not collective
murder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

21st Century riots need a 21st Century response

BYLINE: David James

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 664 words


IT is not easy to give the riots that have swept through London and other major
English cities a name.

Perhaps the selfish, destructive little ***t riots, or the nickyourself-a-stereo
riots, or the stand-up-for-a-guy-who-had-aloaded-gun-in-his-sock riots? More
pithily, what about the Neet riots, the Broken Society riots or even, given the
rioters' use of expensive mobile phones, the Blackberry riots? It's easy to name
a riot when there's a cause, like the race riots, or a place on which it was
focused, like the Rhondda riots, or even a trade that is rioting.

Believe it or not between 1910 and 1911 France was shocked by the Champagne
riots, by growers of the now exclusive drink.

Cameron could perhaps learn from the then French Government's response - it
dispatched 40,000 troops.

But when the outpouring is of mindless anger, joy at destruction and simply
theft with no apparent reason for the majority of those taking part, it becomes
harder.

The we've-got-nothing-else-todo riots? Plan B, the rapper, yesterday put forward
his take on the riots: "I think they are doing it because they want some free
stuff and they ain't got any and they're angry at that."

This, in its simplicity, is probably the best explanation I've seen. These are
the mindlessly destructive riots, the pointless riots, the bored riots.

Yet the flaw is that there are always people who want free stuff and haven't got
any. They don't always bring cities into chaos for fun.

Some have tried to explain the riots as a product of the coalition cuts, or as a
symptom of a divided society in which an excluded underclass is rising up
against the institutions enjoyed by those who have cash.

In this case those institutions seem to be Greggs, Lidl, Curry's and the corner
shops from which the looters steal wine, crisps and frozen pizza. Yet if that's
the case why have we not seen widespread rioting in Cardiff, Bridgend or
Merthyr, all places with just as much reason to despise the coalition's cuts and
with just as many excluded Neets as London? Perhaps we are asking the wrong
question. If there is no reason for the riots apart from the joy of destruction,
perhaps we should be asking: why aren't the rioters worried about the
consequences? One young rioter told yesterday's Radio 4 Today show: "What are
they gonna do? Give me an Asbo? I'll live with that."

In a world where teenagers have so little to fear from authority that they will
loot and vandalise and torch a 150-yearold department store for fun, perhaps our
kinder society simply does not have the teeth to stop those who feel excluded
from committing crime.

The choice we face is stark: find a way to include everyone - or find a stick
that will stop those who feel excluded from rioting.

Those people signing petitions calling for the rioters to be denied benefits and
kicked out of their council homes are simply expressing the desire for some kind
of retribution to be meted out on those who seemingly riot with impunity.

If finding a new form of punishment becomes both a social and political
necessity, it may well swing British politics back onto a more traditional keel
and away from the strange sight of right-wingers expressing the desire to hug
hoodies.

Another factor that could drive this is modern communications. The technology
that enabled citizens across North Africa to rise up against their despotic
governments also allows mindless thugs to co-ordinate riots on British streets.

Perhaps these are the 21st Century riots. Traditional policing tactics can't
tackle them as once would have been possible because instant messaging systems
and social networking sites have decisively shifted power into the hands of the
masses.

That means if traditional policing no longer works, the pressure to find another
way to stop the riots - whether by finding a way to give the rioters a sense of
pride in the things they are destroying or by finding a way to scare them off
their destruction - becomes more intense.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ So much violence and destruction, but the rioters don't seem to have
had a cause

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Agra reported most riot cases in UP, Lucknow 2nd: NCRB

BYLINE: Arvind Chauhan

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 390 words


AGRA: For the fourth straight year, maintaining its distinction of being most
volatile place in the state, western UP leads in the number of riots in the
state. And, data collated from seven major cities in the state show Agra was
once again had the highest instances of riots and rate of riots in the state in
2015, with state capital Lucknow coming second.According to the Tuesday released
National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, Agra reported 219 cases of
riots in 2015, at a rate of 12.5 affected people per lakh of population. Though
it was lowest in last three years (2012- 227), (2013- 227) and (2014- 242).Riots
have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian, agrarian,
student, caste, communal and "others".In Agra a total of 51 people became victim
of clash over land property dispute followed by 47 in student's violence, while
14 people were victim of communal riot and 12 of caste conflict between SCs/STs
vs Non-SCs/STs.There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra
and Lucknow, which came in second place.

Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of 3.9, which was way below. A
total of 172 people become victim of riots in Lucknow.Meerut which came second
last year in number riots cases, stood third in the state with 112 cases at a
rate of 7.9 per lakh of population.The industrial capital of UP, Kanpur, was
fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower rate of 3.3.Varanasi, the Lok
Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29 cases of riots had
the lowest number of riots among the seven cities. The rate in Varanasi is 2.0,
which is much more than Ghaziabad (1.6). Ghaziabad reported 30 instances of
riots in 2015.Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813
cases and stood third after Bihar 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.Bihar's capital
Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725, with a rate of
35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai with 396
instances and a rate of 2.2. Patna also had the highest rate of riots in the
country.Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots
cases, in which 220 people were victim. Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in
Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Agra reported most riot cases in UP, Lucknow 2nd: NCRB

BYLINE: Arvind Chauhan

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 390 words


AGRA: For the fourth straight year, maintaining its distinction of being most
volatile place in the state, western UP leads in the number of riots in the
state. And, data collated from seven major cities in the state show Agra was
once again had the highest instances of riots and rate of riots in the state in
2015, with state capital Lucknow coming second.According to the Tuesday released
National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics, Agra reported 219 cases of
riots in 2015, at a rate of 12.5 affected people per lakh of population. Though
it was lowest in last three years (2012- 227), (2013- 227) and (2014- 242).Riots
have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian, agrarian,
student, caste, communal and "others".In Agra a total of 51 people became victim
of clash over land property dispute followed by 47 in student's violence, while
14 people were victim of communal riot and 12 of caste conflict between SCs/STs
vs Non-SCs/STs.There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra
and Lucknow, which came in second place.

Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of 3.9, which was way below. A
total of 172 people become victim of riots in Lucknow.Meerut which came second
last year in number riots cases, stood third in the state with 112 cases at a
rate of 7.9 per lakh of population.The industrial capital of UP, Kanpur, was
fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower rate of 3.3.Varanasi, the Lok
Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29 cases of riots had
the lowest number of riots among the seven cities. The rate in Varanasi is 2.0,
which is much more than Ghaziabad (1.6). Ghaziabad reported 30 instances of
riots in 2015.Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813
cases and stood third after Bihar 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.Bihar's capital
Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725, with a rate of
35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai with 396
instances and a rate of 2.2. Patna also had the highest rate of riots in the
country.Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots
cases, in which 220 people were victim. Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in
Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Understanding the England riots from the perspective of those responsible

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 830 words

ABSTRACT

Our researchers are talking to people who took part in riots for a joint study
by the Guardian and London School of Economics

FULL TEXT

A month ago, we launched a major research study to find out more about the
causes and the consequences of the riots that spread across England in August
this year.

Now more than 30 researchers are working full-time interviewing people involved
in the disturbances in London, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool and Nottingham.

They are all part of Reading the Riots, a project that aims to achieve a better
understanding of the riots - and why they happened - by gaining the perspectives
of those who were directly involved.

The study, carried out jointly by the Guardian and London School of Economics,
is modelled on a landmark study conducted in the aftermath of the Detroit riots
in 1967, the most deadly riots ever experienced in the United States.

The England Riots, as they have become known, constituted the most serious bout
of civil unrest in a generation. Five people died and more than 3,000 were
arrested when a disturbance that began in Tottenham on 6 August spread across
the capital and to towns and cities across the country during four nights of
arson and looting.

We launched this study because there was a deficit in empirical research into
the riots, despite their disturbing scale and nature. Most notably, the
government has resisted opening a full public inquiry, choosing instead to
create a four-person panel to listen to victims of the riots.

The perspectives of victims and local communities are of course crucial, but we
feel that the best understanding of the disorder will be obtained from the
people who were responsible for it.

Reading the Riots, which is funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Open
Society Foundations, seeks to find answers through rigorous social research.

In the weeks after the project's launch, more than 450 people from across
England applied to be researchers on the project. The team we have now selected
are skilled interviewers who can draw on good contacts in riot-affected
communities.

They come from a range of backgrounds, and include PhD students, youth workers,
journalists, mentors, lecturers, bloggers, a taxi driver, a probation officer
and a consultant. You can read more about the team here.

Their attempts to find people who were involved in the riots, and interview them
in confidence, are being aided by an informal network of youth groups, community
workers, teachers and lawyers who are putting us in touch with people they know
participated in the disorder.

We want to give everyone who was involved the opportunity to speak to us -
regardless of their background or circumstances. If you know people who were
involved in the riots, we would be grateful if you could put us in touch with
them.

Anonymity is something we're taking extremely seriously. There will be no record
of the names, addresses or photographs of the people who take part in the study.
We are simply interested in what they have to say. The study has been approved
by the LSE's ethics committee.

We are also speaking to the many people who have appeared in court in connection
with the riots, drawing on our own database of riot-related court cases. We have
written to more than 1,000 people prosecuted over the riots, and our researchers
are also visiting their homes.

Potentially, we would like to interview people in prison, and we are in
discussions with the Ministry of Justice to enable people who are on remand or
serving sentences to also have the opportunity to speak to us in confidence.

Our interviews are semi-structured, and last around an hour. Mostly, they
comprise general discussions about people's experiences - known in social
research as "qualitative" interviews. But there are also more structured
survey-style questions, about the backgrounds and attitudes of people involved
in the riots.

If you were somehow involved in the riots, and would like to be interviewed, you
can contact us in confidence by sending an email to
readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk.

We hope these interviews will provide us with a deeper understanding of the
nature of the August riots from the perspective of people who were there.

The large amount of material we will begin analysing in the coming weeks should
bring clarity to a number of assumptions about the riots, from the relevance of
poverty to the involvement of gangs and the use of Blackberry BBM messaging and
other social media.

Prof Tim Newburn, who is leading the LSE's involvement in the project, is hiring
a team of academics who will analyse the material generated from the interviews.

Simultaneously, we are analysing a database of more than 2.5m tweets, provided
to us by Twitter. We will be teaming up with academics at Manchester University
who have expertise in analysing large amounts of Twitter data.

We hope that by December we will have a better grasp of exactly how rioting and
looting spread across English cities this summer - and why.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Rahul comments on 1984 riots a 'hogwash': Akali Dal

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) slammed Rahul Gandhi for
claiming that the 1984 riots in Delhi were "different" from the 2002 Gujarat
riots.

"Total hogwash, full of hypocrisy," said senior SAD leader Naresh Gujral.

"He (Rahul) says Narendra Modi is responsible because he was the Chief Minister,
then what about his father (Rajiv Gandhi) as he was the prime minister in 1984?"
Gujral told a news channel.

"In Gujarat it was riots, in Delhi it was carnage. The government did not call
out the Army for three days, there were orders from the PM's office not to call
out the Army," he added.

"In Gujarat more than 300 people were killed in police firing against the
rioters, in Delhi there was not one shot fired...this is selective amnesia,"
Gujral said.

Rahul Gandhi in a rare television interview had acknowledged that "some Congress
men were probably involved" in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots that followed the
assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi. More than 3,000 Sikhs were
killed in the riots.

However, on the issue of bringing the guilty to justice, Rahul chose to go by
the standard line: He said, "there is a legal process through which they have
gone through."

Rahul also differentiated between the 1984 riots and the one in Gujarat in 2002.
He said, "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that
in 1984 the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child
then, I remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots.
In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong."

Asked to explain, the Congress vice president said:"I am saying that there was
difference between the 1984 riots and the riots in Gujarat. The difference was
that the Government in 1984 was trying to stop the riots, trying to stop the
killing whereas the Government in Gujarat was allowing the riots to happen."

On whether he would apologise or express regret for the 1984 riots, if someone
asked him to, Gandhi said: "First of all I wasn't involved in the riots at all.
It wasn't that I was part of it."

Asked if he would apologise on behalf of his party party, he said "Frankly I was
not in operation in the Congress party."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 31, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

'84 riots: Rahul's effigies burnt in Punjab

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 632  words


Chandigarh, Jan 31 (IBNS) Activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday burnt
the effigies of Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi across Punjab in protest of
his recent comments on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Earlier on Thursday, members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and
Shiromani Akali Dal held a protest outside the headquarters of the Indian
National Congress in New Delhi over the issue.

"We want justice, we want an SIT probe. We want the guilty to be hanged," said
one of the protesters.

"The Congress is responsible for the 1984 riots," he said.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met Lieutenant Governor Najeeb
Jung and demanded a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots.

"I met the Lieutenant Governor today and sought a SIT probe into the 1984 riots.
He is very positive about it," Kejriwal told reporters.

"We will discuss forming of the SIT and its terms in the next cabinet meeting,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said he will not apologise for the comments
on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

Not Just Jos [editorial]

LENGTH: 451  words


IT is defeatist to look at riots as if they were indigenous to Jos, the Plateau
State capital, which has had an unfair share of them. Riots, unrests, and
variants of them, have become common Nigerian ways of expressing their anger at
a federation that does not work.

They are also ready instruments in the hands of politicians, who use them to
surreptitiously push their self-serving agenda. Riots in Jos have hurt the city,
the people and Nigeria.

What is so special about Jos that riots must break forth so often? What issues
cause these riots? Each riot is usually a carry over of unresolved ones. The
main issue, no matter the guises, is the fight over the control of Jos.

Any attempt to bring the perpetrators of the riots to book starts another riot.
The November 2008 riot is the subject of two probes, the Justice Bola Ajibola
panel by the Plateau State Government, which has finished its work and the on
going General Emmanuel Abisoye panel of the Federal Government.

Riots date a little bit further and in the North appear to be used in furthering
religious hegemony. They have been extended to political disputes and in some
instances poorly managed ethnic relations. Some major riots - riots Jos in 1945,
Kano in 1957, most parts of northern Nigeria in 1966, Kano in 1980, Maiduguri in
1982, Jimeta in 1984, Gombe in 1985, Kaduna and Kafanchan in 1991, Bauchi,
Katsina, and Kano in 1991, Zango-Kataf in 1992, Funtua in 1993, Kano in 1994 and
2000, Kaduna Sharia riot 2001, Jos 2004, Kano 2004 and Kano 2007, Maiduguri,
Bauchi, Yobe and Kano in 2009. The losses have been estimated at over 100,000
and property worth billions of Naira.

More than 6,000 people perished in the December 1980 Maitatsine in Kano, which
spread to Yola, Maiduguri, Bauchi and Gombe. Maitatsine sects have been
regrouping under different names since then, wrecking havoc wherever they go.

Rioters target churches under the cloak of religious differences. When Muslim
sects disagree, they burn churches, and attack non-Muslims. Riots are more
political than religious.

Estimates of deaths from riots in Jos and other towns in Plateau State since
2001 are in the 4,000 mark. The

Yelwa-Shendam-Wase killings in 2002, and 2004 led to emergency rule in the
State.

No solutions would be found to the riots in Jos, or elsewhere, until those who
instigate them are punished.

There has been no conclusive implementation of the reports on riots. In fact,
some of the suspects in the 2008 Jos riot taken to Abuja have not been
prosecuted after a year.

Once a regime of impunity is established, people would exploit it - and that is
what is happening with riots in Jos, Kano, Maiduguri, Jimeta, Gombe, Kaduna,
Kafanchan, Katsina, Funtua, Yobe.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 26, 2011 Monday

Courts mistreating cases as riot-related, says defence lawyer

BYLINE: Fiona Bawdonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 585 words

ABSTRACT

Fiona Bawdon: Is a Tottenham solicitor alone in having clients charged as part
of riots, despite them having no connection other than being in the same
borough?

FULL TEXT

The courts are treating some offenders as riot cases, even though their crimes
were committed miles away from the scene of any disorder, according to a leading
defence solicitor.

James Nichol, a solicitor based in Tottenham, says he is representing people who
are being "charged as part of the riots, simply because their offences were
committed in the borough where riots were taking place".

Nichol's firm was on the police station duty rota the night the riots started
and he is sceptical of figures released last week showing that more than 17,000
people had been charged with riot-related offences. He says this figure is
distorted by the inclusion of offenders such as his clients who were nowhere
near the riots, but who are nonetheless being punished as if they were part of
the disorder. Nichol adds that statistics showing three-quarters of rioters had
a previous conviction are also misleading: a client of his had a "previous
conviction" for using a child's bus ticket.

As the Guardian has reported previously, the courts certainly are punishing riot
defendants far more harshly than would otherwise be the case. Two-thirds of them
are being held on remand, compared with just 10% of defendants charged with
indictable offences in 2010, according to the Ministry of Justice. Magistrates
are sending people to prison for twice as long as they did for similar offences
last year (5.1 months, compared with 2.5 months). A memo obtained by the
Guardian following a freedom of information request revealed magistrates were
urged to disregard normal practice and refer even minor riot-related offences to
the crown court for sentence.

Nichol says riot penalties are being imposed on offenders just because they were
in the same postcode as the disorder. Cases he has seen include a man arrested
for carrying a baseball bat on the night when rioting broke out elsewhere in the
borough, and an 18-year-old who attempted to break into a shop which was about
an hour's walk from the nearest disorder.

"People are no longer being sentenced for the offence; they are being sentenced
for the riot," he says.

Colleagues of Nichol's share his concern. One said young adults in particular
are "being hammered" by the courts. Tony Edwards, who works in east London, says
the problem is not that courts are going above the sentencing guidelines in riot
cases, but that they have torn them up altogether. "The sentences we are seeing
bear no relation to anything else at all." Magistrates are remanding people in
custody for the most minor offences - such as a man charged with carrying an
offensive weapon for having a dog lead.

Edwards, who was a member of the now defunct Sentencing Guidelines Council, says
the current Sentencing Council "missed an opportunity" by not calling an
emergency meeting to draw up new guidance to deal with riot cases.

Instead, experienced defence solicitors such as Edwards and Nichol say courts
are "making it up as they go along".

Solicitors are hopeful, if not optimistic, that normal service may be resumed
after next week when the appeal court is due to hear 10 cases challenging riot
sentences.

The Guardian's Reading the Riots research team would like to hear from defence
solicitors with examples of the approach courts are taking to sentencing in riot
cases. You can contact us on reading.the.riots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

The long-term consequences of the race riots in the late 1960's come into view.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel.

Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style:
How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and
Consciousness,'' just published in paperback by Perennial.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1077 words


AS an economic historian, Robert A. Margo has long wanted to study the 1960's.
But, he says, ''for the longest time people would say, 'That's too close to the
present.'''

Not so anymore. The 1960's are as distant from today as the Great Depression was
from the 1960's, and economic historians, including Professor Margo, of
Vanderbilt University, are examining the decade's long-term effects.

Consider the wave of race riots that swept the nation's cities. From 1964 to
1971, there were more than 750 riots, killing 228 people and injuring 12,741
others. After more than 15,000 separate incidents of arson, many black urban
neighborhoods were in ruins.

As soon as the riots occurred, social scientists began collecting data and
analyzing the possible causes. Until recently, however, few scholars looked at
the riots' long-term economic consequences.

In two recent papers, Professor Margo and his Vanderbilt colleague, William J.
Collins, do just that by estimating the impact on incomes and employment and on
property values.

The riots not only destroyed many homes and businesses, resulting in about $50
million in property damage in Detroit alone, but far more significantly, they
also depressed inner-city incomes and property values for decades.

(The papers, ''The Labor Market Effects of the 1960's Riots'' and ''The Economic
Aftermath of the 1960's Riots: Evidence from Property Values,'' are available at
www.vanderbilt.edu/Econ/wparchive/working03.html and
www.vanderbilt.edu/Econ/wparchive/working04.html.)

The economists start with sociologists' findings on the riots' causes: whether a
city had a riot was essentially unpredictable, assuming the city was outside the
South (where few riots occurred) and had a substantial African-American
population. The sociologists' research, Professor Margo says, suggests that
''there was so much racial tension in the air in the 1960's that a riot could
happen almost anywhere, anytime.''

That unpredictability is bad news for sociologists looking for causes but good
news for economists analyzing consequences. It creates a natural experiment,
dividing otherwise similar places into those that had riots and those that did
not.

In cities with major riots, the economists find that the median black family
income dropped by about 9 percent from 1960 to 1970, compared with similar
cities without severe riots. This impact on the labor market may have actually
been more severe in the long run.

From 1960 to 1980, male employment in cities with severe riots dropped four to
seven percentage points, compared with otherwise similar cities.

The impact on property values is even more striking. In cities with severe riots
, Professors Collins and Margo found, the median value of black-owned homes
dropped 14 percent to 20 percent, compared with cities that experienced little
or no rioting, from 1960 to 1970. The median value of all central-city homes,
regardless of owner, dropped 6 percent, to 10 percent.

The racial difference is not surprising, because both riot damage and the
perceived risk of future riots were concentrated in predominately black
neighborhoods.

Again, these numbers reflect not just immediate property damage but long-term
declines. If it is more expensive or less desirable to live or work in a
particular neighborhood, property prices will drop.

''This effect,'' the economists write, ''could work through any number of the
channels that feed into the net benefit stream: personal and property risk might
seem higher; insurance premiums might rise; taxes for redistribution or more
police and fire protection might increase, and municipal bonds may be more
difficult to place; retail outlets might close; businesses and employment
opportunities might relocate; friends and family might move away; burned-out
buildings might be an eyesore; and so on.''

In a second statistical test, Professors Collins and Margo identify two factors
that separate cities with riots from those without riots: whether the local
government used a city manager (which lessened the chances of a riot) and how
much rain fell in April 1968, the month that Martin Luther King Jr. was
assassinated.

''If you have a lot of rain, people don't go out in the streets and riot,''
Professor Margo notes. So the same national event had different effects in
cities that were otherwise similar. Here, too, the two economists find that
cities without riots did significantly better economically over the long run.

These results help address an important economic puzzle. Since World War II, the
incomes of black and white Americans have begun to converge. But racial
differences in wealth, or net worth, have remained enormous, even for people
with similar incomes and family configurations.

In 1998, the median income for African-American households was $20,000, or 54
percent of the median white household income of $37,000, according to
calculations by Edward N. Wolff of the Jerome Levy Economics Institute. But the
median net worth of black families was only $10,000, a mere 12 percent of the
median white net worth of $81,700.

Wealth reflects history as well as current economics. And while there are many
reasons for the wealth gap, it certainly does not help that the 1960's riots
destroyed much of the accumulated wealth of many of the most prosperous
African-Americans, those who had left the South for the greater economic
opportunity of industrial cities.

A home is the most important asset for most American families, and home
ownership is even more significant for African-Americans, who historically have
had held little wealth in financial securities or business equity.

In 1940, black-owned homes were worth only 37 percent as much as white-owned
homes, as against 62 percent in 1970 -- still a significant gap, but a much
smaller one. From then on, however, the gap barely budges, with the ratio
reaching only 65 percent by 1990.

The riots help explain why. These numbers include all houses nationwide. In
inner cities, the trend actually reversed, and the gap in home value began to
widen instead of narrow.

From 1940 to 1970, the value of homes owned and occupied by blacks in central
cities jumped to 69 percent of the value of urban homes owned and occupied by
whites, from 51 percent. (Home values were rising over this period as well.) By
1990, however, the ratio was down to a mere 53 percent, nearly as low as in
1940.

''That's a really startling number,'' Professor Margo says.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2005



CORRECTION: A picture caption with the Economic Scene column in Business Day on
Thursday, about the long-term consequences of the 1960's race rioting, misstated
the date of riots in Detroit. It was 1967, not 1968.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The structure of a store that burned in the 1968 Detroit riots
was standing several decades later. A study says the riots depressed incomes and
property values for years. (Photo by Michele V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      February 17, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

I am standing against the 'politics of riots': Jarnail Singh from AAP

LENGTH: 381  words


New Delhi: Jarnail Singh, who made headlines after he hurled a shoe at then
former Union Home minister P Chidambaram will now fight the Lok Sabha elections
from Aam Aadmi Party's West Delhi seat. He threw the shoe at the minister
showing his dissatisfaction over issuing of clean chit to Congress leader Sajjan
Kumar in anti-Sikh riots. For the first time he openly talked to Bhaskar Group
on the topic of politics. So we asked him a few questions about joining
politics.

What is the reason that Jarnail Singh, who wanted to serve his community is now
the Lok sabha candidate?

For the first time some government was successful in launching the SIT regarding
1984 anti-Sikh riots. Arvind Kejriwal is the first person to do it. Thus, it
felt like I am not alone against the politics of riots that's why I chose to
elect for Lok Sabha elections.

What do you mean when you say 'politics of riots'?

The meaning is clear. Whether you talk about Bhagalpur riots, 1984 Sikh riots,
Gujarat riots or Muzzafarnagar riots, the riots have not taken place during the
ruling of a single party. None of the political parties tried to stop the riots.
If timely investigation would have been ordered then further riots could have
been stopped. But every party took years to probe into riot matters and failed
to reach the culprits. This happened because for them, politics is the priority
not stopping the riots or understanding the pain of riot victims.

Don't you think that your revolutionary side will vanish away after you debut in
politics?

It is not like that. The feelings should be pure and the target should be clear.
I am a reporter and when I left my job, I was at a reputed position. Not then or
even now my target has been joining politics but to end the politics of riots.

After reporting, what will you do if you get a chance to be the Member of
Parliament?

As a reporter I have covered areas like Lok Sabha, Punjab region, Defense
Ministry, Ministry of Food Supply and political parties for more than a decade
now. I know about the expectations of a common man from different Ministries.
From working in a reputed newspaper to highlighting the emotions, I have also
been unemployed for some time. Thus, you can see that I am a common man and will
become the voice of 'Aam Aadmi' even in the house.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     January 29, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Anti-Sikh riots: Kejriwal wants SIT probe

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 545  words


New Delhi, Jan 29 (IBNS) Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met
Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung and demanded a Special Investigation Team (SIT)
to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I met the Lieutenant Governor today and sought a SIT probe into the 1984 riots.
He is very positive about it," Kejriwal told reporters.

"We will discuss forming of the SIT and its terms in the next cabinet meeting,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said he will not
apologise for the comments on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots,Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

England riots: where they happened and where the suspects lived

BYLINE: Simon Rogersguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 412 words

ABSTRACT

How far did people travel to riot? This is our first attempt to map suspected
rioters with the events themselves. What does it tell us?

FULL TEXT

Did rioters commute in for the looting? That is a theory being explored by
police and politicians. And as , what information does it tell us about how the
events of those nights in early August unfolded?

An analysis of one day's court hearings by BBC  last week found 70% of those
accused of riot-related crimes had travelled from outside their area.
Communities secretary Eric Pickles has called it "riot tourism", and it is part
of the argument used by those who want to withdraw benefits and council housing
from those accused of rioting, even in a different borough.

Similarly, housing minister  said:

If someone has travelled for those riots, then the fact you have committed it in
the next-door borough or somewhere else should count equally

We have analysed over 300 records of people on riot-related charges before
English magistrates' courts to see where people lived and where the riots took
place. The maps above show - for the major events that took place in August 2011
- the effect in each city.

This is not a complete record - and is of alleged cases, some of whom pleaded
not guilty. The other caveat is that it does not show which event each suspect
is alleged to be part of. But it does show how people arrested and charged in
the days following the riots came from all over the cities affected.

The effect is particularly pronounced in Manchester, where suspects have been in
court from the suburbs of the city. In London, there is a similar effect,
although it seems to show people travelled, but not as far.

Does it tell us anything - what do you think?

· Contact us at

Key riot links

· · ·

·

More open data


World government data

·

Development and aid data

·

Can you do something with this data?

· Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our · Contact us at

· · · ·

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            December 11, 1987 Friday
                                  Late Edition

THE RIOT YOU HAVE WHEN YOU'RE NOT HAVING A RIOT

BYLINE: TONY HEWETT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words


When does a brawl, a clash, or a confrontation, become a riot or a"mini-riot"?
What is a riot? The media usually has an answer, so do the police, and
yesterday, so did the Sydney Aboriginal community.

In the Oxford Dictionary, a riot is "debate, dispute, quarrel; origin obscure.
Unrestrained revelry, mirth, or noise. A violent disturbance of the peace by an
assembly or body of persons; an outbreak of active lawlessness or disorder among
the populace".

The events at Redfern yesterday assumed assorted descriptions on the airwaves.

Channel Ten's Good Morning Australia news said there had been a"mini-riot".

At 7.30 am on 2GB, an authoritative-sounding newsreader said the State
Government had expressed concern over an "Aboriginal mini-riot" at Redfern, the
scene of a "violent clash between the police and Aborigines".

The breakfast show host Mike Carlton was interrupted at 8 am by the same
newsreader, who referred to the Redfern events as a "violent confrontation
between police and Aborigines".

A news clip said a "mini-riot" had "erupted".

At 8.30 am, the violent confrontation, "mini-riot" or "melee" had become a riot.
The NSW Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Mr Gabb, was quoted as saying he hoped
the "mini-riot" did not ruin Aboriginal-police relations.

At 9 am, the incident was described as a "mini-riot".

Radio 2UE said a "mini-riot" had broken out at Redfern, while 2MMM FM described
it as a "riot", according to spokesmen for the stations. The news on 2-DAY FM
referred to the incident as a "brawl".

Most of the television mid-morning news bulletins detailed a "violent
confrontation", a clash, or a "brawl".

An administrator at the Redfern Aboriginal Legal Service, Mr Cecil Patten, said
the police action on Wednesday night and their public reaction on Thursday
morning, was a "deliberate stir for next year".

"They called in the Tactical Response Group. There was no need for that,"he
said. "At the press conference, they were saying that the police and their
Aboriginal Liaison Unit are prepared for any disturbances next year. The feeling
around here is they're just causing another bloody stir."

A NSW police media relations officer said: "It wasn't a riot. There has to be
more than 30 people there for it to be that.

"What happened at Redfern was a confrontation. A riot status isn't given on the
number of people there - it is gained by the behaviour of the people involved.

"There has to be a large number of people acting as a single unit, behaving in a
way that is not acceptable."

The NSW Police Commissioner's adviser on Aboriginal affairs, Inspector Bill
Galvin, said the Redfern episode was not a riot - it was "hooliganism".

Steve, 40, a resident of Everleigh Street, said: "What happened here wasn't a
riot. It was nothing, just crap that's all."

* A man,26, was taken to Royal Prince Alfred Hospital with head wounds after
more violence in Redfern last night. A local resident, Ms Jean Kennedy, said at
11.45 pm about 20 aborigines bashed three white men on the corner of Caroline
and Abercrombie streets.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police move in to arrest Aborigines in Redfern early yesterday. Three
adults and a juvenile were charged.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1987 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Sun (Yuma, Arizona)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Inmates involved in riot charged

BYLINE: James Gilbert, The Sun, Yuma, Ariz.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 512 words


Sep. 5--Felony charges have been filed against the 18 inmates who were allegedly
involved in a disturbance at the Yuma County jail last week. The inmates, who
were escorted into a courtroom inside the jail individually by two sheriff
deputies, were arraigned Tuesday before Somerton Justice of the Peace Jorge
Lozano.

Investigators with the Yuma County Sheriff's Office say the inmates planned last
week's disturbance for up to a week, passing notes and talking through their
cell walls.

The inmates flooded portions of the maximum security area of the jail by tearing
off sprinkler heads and used plastic food trays to break windows in the jail,
the sheriff's office said. Two detention officers suffered minor scrapes and
bruises.

They did an estimated $3,000 worth of damage to the jail.

The disturbance, according to sheriff's, was prompted by inmates' complaints
over food they were served in the jail.

The following inmates have been charged:

Juan Lorenzo Preciado, 21, was charged with Dangerous or Deadly Assault by a
Prisoner, Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot, Criminal
Damage, and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Jose Jesus Preciado, 25; Damien Gamboa, 23; Alex Michael Robles, 33; and Juan
Serafin Conde 26, were each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate
in a Riot, Riot, Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Also charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer were James Joseph
Moreno, 26, and Hector Jesus Rodriguez, 23.

Paul Michael Drusky, 31, Jordan Wayne Zeck, 24, and Philip Santos Hernandez, 20,
were all charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Timothy Jesse Valenzuela, 44, Richard Hernandez, 25, and Rodrigio Matus Jr., 22,
were each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in a Riot, Riot,
and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Jose Conde Ochoa, 42, was charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in
a Riot, Riot, Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer, and Aggravated Assault
with Body Fluid.

Anthony Hirales Estrada, 40, and Carlos Victor Renteria, 30, and Sergio Panuco
Clark, 30, were also each charged with Prisoner Assault to Incite/Participate in
a Riot, Riot, Criminal Damage and Aggravated Assault on a Detention Officer.

Charges of Riot and Criminal Damage were filed against 25-year-old Samuel Albert
Golding.

All 18 inmates will have a preliminary hearing or grand jury on September 7 and
each were assigned a public defender to represent them on their new the new
charges.

To see more of The Sun or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.yumasun.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Sun, Yuma, Ariz. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070905-YZ-Inmates-involved-in-riot-charged-0905

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YZ


                             Copyright 2007 The Sun


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             April 29, 2002 Monday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1712 words


The supervisor in Los Angeles is Sue Manning, followed by John Antczak and
Robert Jablon, and can be reached at [213] 626-1200. The supervisor in San
Francisco is Rob Gloster, followed by Justin Pritchard, and can be reached at
[415] 495-1708. Jean-Marc Bouju, Los Angeles photos, can be reached at [213]
626-2500. For technical assistance, call [213] 626-5833 for Los Angeles or [415]
495-1124 for San Francisco. All times are PST.

HEADLINES:

State's highest court refuses to release sex predator

LA has changed since riots, but police, social problems persist

Livermore lab director doesn't expect more nuclear testing

California power grid board to vote on new wholesale market design

Committee approves dismantling state's testing system

Home prices and sales volume expected to show another double digit rise

SEX PREDATOR:

State's highest court refuses to release sex predator

SAN FRANCISCO California's Supreme Court denies the release of sex predator
Patrick Ghilotti, but says Gov. Gray Davis cannot arbitrarily overrule a state
law that sets guidelines for freeing rapists and child molesters after they have
served their sentences.

BC-CA-Sex Predator. About 500 words.

By Kim Curtis.

AP Photo FX107, file photo of Ghilotti.

BC-CA-Sex Predator-Releases.

BC-CA-Sex Predator-Davis.

RIOT ANNIVERSARY:

LA has changed since riots, but police, social problems persist

LOS ANGELES On April 29, 1992, four white police officers were acquitted of the
videotaped beating of black motorist Rodney King. Soon after, the city erupted
in the worst riots of the century. The mayhem lasted four days, leaving 55 dead
and more than 2,000 injured. Entire blocks were reduced to ash. Fires and
looting caused $1 billion in property damage. Los Angeles is a very different
place 10 years later. A booming Hispanic population has altered the social and
political landscape of the nation's second-largest city, and new civic issues
have arisen to eclipse the controversies that made headlines a decade ago. But
some things haven't changed. Controversy and low morale continue to plague the
police department, and racial tensions have subsided but haven't disappeared.
South Central still struggles to develop economically and lags the rest of the
city in wages and jobs.

BC-CA-LA Riots. 1,400 words.

Eds: The riot anniversary package has moved twice in advance and is being rerun
today. There are dozens of photos to go with the package. Please see entire
lineup on separate digest slugged BC-CA-LA Riots, Advisory.

By Erica Werner.

AP Photos LA325-35, a file photo package showing events related to the riots.

AP Photos LA307-311, recent scenes of Vermont Avenue in South Central where
entire blocks of buildings were looted and burned; LA318, Los Angeles Mayor
James Hahn.

With:

BC-CA-LA Riots-Koreans-Blacks.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Korean Activists.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Black LA.

BC-CA-LA Riots-LAPD.

BC-CA-LA Riots-King.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Intersection.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Officers.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Gates.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Moulin.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Denny.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Videotape.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Bay Area.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Vegas.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Victims-Lam.

BC-CA-LA Riots-Victims-Netherly.

POWER:

California power grid board to vote on new wholesale market design

SACRAMENTO California's grid operators will vote on a redesigned wholesale
electricity market one they hope will be bulletproof to the price spikes that
sent the state reeling into rolling blackouts and billions in debt. The
Independent System Operator, manager of the state's electricity grid, is facing
a deadline to rebuild the market by September, when federal price caps expire.

BC-CA-Power Market.

Eds: Developing from 2 p.m. hearing and vote.

By Jennifer Coleman.

AROUND THE STATE:

Livermore lab director doesn't expect more nuclear testing

LIVERMORE, Calif. It's unlikely the United States will resume nuclear testing,
despite Bush administration questions about what it would take to end the
nine-year moratorium, according to the retiring director of Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory.

BC-CA-Nuclear Testing. 730 words.

By National Writer Martha Mendoza.

AP Photos FX101, C. Bruce Tarter, the retiring director of the Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory sits in his office in Livermore, Calif.; FX102,
Tarter takes a look at the sprawling lab from the roof of the building where his
office is located; FX103, Tarter looks out at the view from his office.

Committee approves dismantling state's testing system

SACRAMENTO Legislation that aims to dismantle the state's system for testing
students, ranking schools and enforcing accountability clears an Assembly
committee. The Assembly Education Committee voted 8-6 to pass AB 2347, one of
two hotly debated bills being pushed by the California Teachers Association, the
state's largest teachers union.

BC-CA-School Testing. 600 words.

By Stefanie Frith.

Write-in mayor candidate says her name belongs on ballot

LONG BEACH, Calif. Termed-out Mayor Beverly O'Neill wants her name on the June 4
runoff ballot, adding a new twist to the first mayoral election under the city's
term-limit laws. O'Neill, Vice Mayor Dan Baker and Norm Ryan are trying to
squeeze into two runoff spots, although its unclear whether there will be more
than one name on the ballot.

After the April 9 primary, third-place finisher Ryan filed a lawsuit seeking a
spot on the runoff ballot. O'Neill, who is ending a second-four-year term,
placed first in a write-in campaign with 28.3 percent of the vote, Baker was
second with 24.7 percent and Ryan was third with 22.8 percent.

BC-CA-Long Beach Election. 300 words.

BUSINESS:

Prices and sales volume expected to show another double digit rise

LOS ANGELES The California Association of Realtors releases existing home sales
numbers for March. Prices and sales volume are expected to show another double
digit rise. Developing from 10 a.m. release.

BC-CA-California Housing. About 400 words.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Threat of lockout won't be part of negotiating unless work slowdown imposed

LOS ANGELES The CEO of the Pacific Maritime Association, which represents
shipping companies and terminal operators, says he won't use the threat of a
lockout as a negotiating tactic with the International Longshore and Warehouse
Union when talks begin May 6. But if longshoremen impose a work slowdown, Joseph
Miniace said they should expect a lockout.

BC-CA-Port Labor. About 600 words.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Votes due on future of Enron director Frank Savage, discrimination policy

SAN DIEGO Lockheed Martin shareholders vote on whether its board should retain
former Enron director Frank Savage and whether the company should adopt a policy
banning discrimination based on sexual orientation.

BC-CA-Lockheed Martin. About 400 words.

Eds: Developing from 10:30 a.m. shareholders meeting.

By Seth Hettena.

HP's Fiorina pressed to explain comments in Deutsche Bank call

WILMINGTON, Del. Hewlett-Packard Co. chief Carly Fiorina is called back to the
witness stand to explain why she told a big investor its vote on the proposed
acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp. was "of great importance to our ongoing
relationship.'

BC-HP-Compaq Trial. 900 words.

By Business Writer Brian Bergstein.

AP Photos DEM203-205.

Gates expected to attend conference on diversity in Silicon Valley

SAN JOSE, Calif. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates heads the list of high tech and
telecommunications industry leaders scheduled to attend a Rainbow/PUSH Coalition
conference on diversity in technology in the Silicon Valley. It's a bit of a
breather for Gates, who has spent most of the week huddled in a Washington
courtroom with lawyers as nine states seek tougher penalties against the
software giant in their antitrust suit.

BC-CA-Gates-Diversity. About 350 words.

Eds: Gates spoke at noon.

By Ron Harris.

AP Photos staffing.

ChevronTexaco reports 70 percent drop in first-quarter profit

SAN FRANCISCO ChevronTexaco Corp. says its first-quarter profit plunged more
dramatically than gasoline and oil prices, but the earnings erosion wasn't as
severe as investors had feared.

BC-CA-Earns-ChevronTexaco. 490 words.

By Business Writer Michael Liedtke.

PeopleSoft expected to provide more insights about sudden sales slump

SAN FRANCISCO Business software maker PeopleSoft provides more details about a
slump in sales the company warned about at the start of the month. Tech
investors are expected to pay close attention to PeopleSoft's remarks, since the
company was able to defy the industry downturn last year. The company's stock
has dropped by 40 percent since the company made its surprise warning 3
1/2-weeks ago.

BC-CA-Earns-PeopleSoft. About 400 words.

By Business Writer Michael Liedtke.

Amgen first quarter results due out after market closes

LOS ANGELES Biotech giant Amgen releases first quarter financial results after
the stock market closes.

BC-CA-Earns-Amgen. About 350 words.

Eds: Developing from 2 p.m. conference call.

By Business Writer Simon Avery.

Unocal reports lower earnings

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. Unocal Corp. reported first quarter earnings of $22 million,
reflecting declines in natural gas and crude oil production and prices.

BC-CA-Earns-Unocal. 250 words.

ENTERTAINMENT:

The Walt Disney Co. reports second quarter earnings

LOS ANGELES The Walt Disney Co. is expected to report second quarter earnings
higher than previously forecast on the strength of increased attendance at its
theme parks.

BC-CA-Earns-Disney. 600 words.

Eds: Disney will report after the market closes at 1 p.m.

By Business Writer Gary Gentile.

After bumpy year, Latin Grammys head to Hollywood

SANTA MONICA, Calif. The Latin Grammys, canceled last year after the terrorist
attacks on the United States, are set for another run, this time at the Kodak
Theatre in Hollywood. C. Michael Greene, president of both the National Academy
of Recording Arts & Sciences and its offshoot, the Latin Recording Academy,
announced details of the event Thursday. He said making the Sept. 18 ceremony a
success has given the 4,000-member Latin music group "a new sense of unity and
purpose.'

BC-CA-Latin Grammys. 300 words.

The AP

AP-WS-04-25-02 1635EDT

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Valley Daily Bulletin


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Riot police move in against Kiev protest camp

LENGTH: 473  words


A firework explodes amid flames during clashes between anti-government
protesters and riot police at Kiev's Independence Square Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian
riot police started to move into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday,
pushing back anti-government protesters whose tents were burning, local
television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Anti-government protesters take cover behind shields during clashes with riot
police at the Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police
started to move into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back
anti-government protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed.
[Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

An anti-government protester throws a log during clashes with riot police at the
Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police started to move
into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back anti-government
protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Anti-government protesters throw missiles during clashes with riot police at the
Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police started to move
into Kiev's Independence Square late on Tuesday, pushing back anti-government
protesters whose tents were burning, local television showed. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Fireworks explode near anti-government protester during clashes with riot police
at the Independence Square in Kiev Feb 18, 2014. Ukrainian riot police advanced
on Tuesday onto a central Kiev square occupied by protesters, after at least 14
people died in the worst day of violence since demonstrations erupted against
President Viktor Yanukovich 12 weeks ago. [Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

Riot policemen stand guard as they are hit by fire caused by molotov cocktails
hurled by anti-government protesters during clashes in Kiev Feb 18, 2014.
Ukrainian riot police charged protesters occupying a central Kiev square early
on Wednesday after the bloodiest day since the former Soviet republic, caught in
a geopolitical struggle between Russia and the West, won its independence more
than 22 years ago. At least 18 people, including seven policemen, died on
Tuesday during hours of violence between security forces and civilians who have
staged protests against President Viktor Yanukovich since last November.
[Photo/Agencies]

Ukrainian riot police clash with protesters

Ukraine protesters end city hall occupation

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

London riot report shows it's a rather complex issue

BYLINE:

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 696  words


Last August I wrote a column on the Tottenham riots in London, England.

In that column I suggested that poverty and ongoing racial tension with the
police fuelled the riots. That position was seen by one reader of this paper as
insensitive to victims and empathizing with the criminals.

Now the Citizens Inquiry into the Tottenham Riots has released its report. The
study is based on interviews with over 700 people, and is part of a larger
research study called Reading the Riots conducted by the Guardian newspaper and
the London School of Economics.

The report concludes that high levels of youth unemployment and toxic relations
with the police were key factors in the riots. Such conclusion will not persuade
anyone who thinks that riots are caused by criminals, but that perception will
not solve the problems or prevent riots from happening again.

The citizens report was written by a panel of nine commissioners. It paints a
picture of a community felt beset by the police, and suffering from
discrimination by a policy of stop and search.

This hostility erupted into violence after the police shooting of Mark Duggan.
The government was quick to blame gangs and social media, but the Reading the
Riots study says this was mistaken.

Media reports quote the 'stop and search' as disrespectful and that it targeted
youth and ethnic minorities. Subsequent government and police reviews have
recommended revising the policy, and also encouraging more ethnic diversity
among the police.

Many reports at the time suggested cutbacks to youth centres and youth
unemployment were other important factors in the riots. The citizens report
recommends youth centre funding be restored, and that money be devoted to
creating 1,000 new jobs for those between 16-24.

At the time of the riots, Paul Lewis, writing in the Guardian, reported there
were 10,000 jobless and only several hundred vacancies in the area.

From a criminological point of view, these are all relevant factors in
determining why people riot, but it is also important to know why they don't.
The citizens inquiry interviewed youth who chose not to riot, and they said it
was because of their ties with family and community.

This is called cohesion, and social capital, and it can be built up or it can be
torn down. Explanations which highlight only criminal opportunism are
individualistic and simplistic, and will never get at the underlying cause of
problems or their solutions.

Joblessness, inadequate and unaffordable housing, unemployment, cuts in youth
centre funding, increases in education tuition, increases in food costs, and
toxic relations with the police, combined, yes, with criminal opportunism,
fuelled the riots.

In a major media piece called Reading the Riots, Investigating England's Summer
of Disorder, readers commented on the various inquiries into the causes of the
riots. Not surprisingly, there is a wide range of opinion in the more than 1,000
comments.

Using pseudonyms, some readers said it is too easy to blame the police, and that
the rioters all had criminal records.

Others said that while the rioting and looting cannot be excused, alienation
among youth was an important factor. Someone posted the quotation from Martin
Luther King that says "A riot is the language of the unheard."

At the end of the day, we have the riots, and we have the interpretation of the
riots. The latter is important because it determines how we as a society react
to mass behaviour.

The protests over the G8, the protests against tuition, and the actions of the
police and government in the face of those inequalities are part of the puzzle
too.

As one commentator, 'sjwells53' noted, there is a difference between social
science research and moralizing.

We can read this report and find its conclusions informative as to the causes of
the riots, and still find the rioting reprehensible. It is not about adopting a
right-wing explanation, 'rioters are scum,' or a left-wing one, 'society is to
blame.'

It is about understanding a complex issue, no matter how difficult that may be
for what it reflects on our society.

Chris McCormick teaches criminology at St. Thomas University. His column appears
every second Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Reading the Riots study to examine causes and effects of August unrest

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 903 words

ABSTRACT

The Guardian and the London School of Economics will work together on the first
empirical study into the rioting and looting

FULL TEXT

The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study into the widespread rioting and looting.

As well as surveys of those who took part in the disorder, the research will
include interviews with residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced
analysis of more than 2.5m riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the  and the . The project,
announced on the eve of the one-month anniversary of the , north London, will
seek to better understand why riots then spread to other parts of the capital
and cities across England.

Four consecutive nights of looting and arson in August left five people dead and
more than 2,000 suspects arrested. Police anticipate that investigations to
identify perpetrators of the disorder will last several years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted in the . The
findings of that study, the result of a groundbreaking collaboration between the
Detroit Free Press newspaper and Michigan's Institute for Social Research,
challenged prevailing assumptions about the cause of the unrest.

Prof Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit study more than four decades ago,
will advise the research into the English riots. The LSE's involvement will be
led by Prof Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department,
which has the highest possible research rating in the UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an advisor
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots.

"Crucially, it is vital that we speak with those involved in the disturbances
and those affected by them to try to understand any lessons for public policy."

Previous incidents of serious civil disorder in England, such as the Oldham
riots in 2001 and the Brixton riots in 1981, led to government-commissioned
inquiries and reviews. Lord Scarman's public inquiry into the Brixton
disturbances, which were followed by further rioting in Toxteth, Liverpool, in
the same year, proved a watershed moment for social policy, warning that urgent
action was required to tackle racial disadvantage and distrust in the police.

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into the August riots,
which flared in most of London's boroughs and spread to parts of Birmingham,
Manchester, Nottingham, Liverpool and Gloucester.

There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved in the
riots. A victims panel announced by the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, will
take evidence from residents in areas where there was rioting and report
preliminary findings in November. The four-person panel will be chaired by Darra
Singh, chief executive of JobCentre Plus.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts
and combine quantitative and qualitattive research methods. At the heart of the
project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian over the last month.

The first is a database of more than 1,100 defendants who have appeared in court
charged with riot-related offences. The list, compiled with the assistance of
the Ministry of Justice, consists of more than 70% of those who have appeared in
magistrate and crown courts. Many will be given the opportunity to take part in
the research study in the coming weeks.

The second database contains . Executives at Twitter's headquarters in
California authorised the collation of tweets, pooled from hashtags relating to
the riots and their aftermath, so they could form part of the study. A spokeman
for the company said: "Twitter provided publicly available information that is
accessible to researchers and others via its API."

Julia Unwin, chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The JRF
believes that solid evidence has to be the driver for good policy. So, as
policymakers develop responses to the riots, the need for solid evidence on the
causes of the riots is crucial. Currently none exists.

"The qualitatitve and quantitative data the Guardian has in its unique
possession is invaluable. The rigorous analysis the LSE will carry out on this
evidence will be vital to understanding why the riots occurred. It is for this
reason why JRF is involved in this partnership: we want policy responses to be
based on evidence, not on conjecture."

Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian News and Media editor-in-chief, said: "The
Guardian continues to make great strides in the field of data journalism, and
the volume of information and statistics we have gathered since the riots
erupted this time last month is vast. As a newspaper we can draw objective
conclusions from this data, but working with LSE will enable us to slot these
facts into the wider social picture and present a more comprehensive look at
what caused these events to unfold."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     January 29, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Won't apologise for '84 riots remarks: Rahul

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 478  words


New Delhi, Jan 29 (IBNS) Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said
he will not apologise for the comments on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots,Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             Mehr News Agency (MNA)

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Women enter Iran Riot Police

LENGTH: 342 words


TEHRAN, Jan. 14 (MNA) - Commander of Iran Riot Police says Women's Unit in the
Riot Police has been operational and that cavalry and SEPKA (Iran Investigation
Police Dogs) units are ready for the containing the riots. Providing comments on
the deployment of female officers in the Riot Police, Brigadier General Hassan
Karami told Mehr News that the plan for recruitment of female officers in the
Riot Police was proposed this year so that the Police would have a unit of women
operational battalion at times of crisis.  He also said that that the structural
outlines of the unit was passed and approved by the Chief of Police, and added
"the missions for the female unit in the Riot Police have been defined according
to operations in investigation, in-action, arrest, transport, and interrogation
sections."   "If we do not succeed in operationalizing the women unit this year,
for sure the first female police will start service in the Riot Police next year
[starting April]," asserted the Chief of the Riot Police.  He believed that
these female units receive different training and have different features, and
said that the Riot Police female officers should be physically strong and agile.

  Karami said that currently only one such unit for the recruitment of female
officers was specified, adding that "the unit can grow stronger at critical
times.

The officers must display high capabilities."  Providing comments on other Riot
Police units, Karami said that currently the Cavalry unit, a special unit for
riots, and the parachute unit, with most competent paratroopers of the Armed
Forces, operated in the units.    "The hostage rescue unit, with the most
competent forces across the country, the SEPKA unit (Iran Investigation Police
Dogs and Marches Control Police Dogs), and the Naval Unit are among other
subunits in the Riot Police," he added. Karami pointed to the operation of
disarmament and anti-terrorist units in the Riot Police and said "the special
Women Officers Unit will be added to the Riot Police by next year." MS/EA MNA
END

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 399


                        Copyright 2013 Mehr News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Guardian Weekly

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Guardian Weekly: Guardian/LSE study will seek out the hidden causes

BYLINE: Paul Lewis

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 605 words


The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study into the widespread rioting and looting. As well as surveys of
those who took part in the disorder, the research will include interviews with
residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced analysis of more than 2.5m
riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation
and the Open Society Foundations. The project will seek to better understand why
riots then spread to other parts of the capital and cities across England. Four
nights of looting and arson in August left five people dead and more than 2,000
suspects arrested. Police expect that investigations to identify perpetrators of
the disorder will last several years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted after the Detroit
riots in 1967. The findings of that investigation, the result of a collaboration
between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and Michigan's Institute for Social
Research, challenged prevailing assumptions about the cause of the unrest.
Professor Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit study, will advise the
research into the English riots. The LSE's involvement will be led by Professor
Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department, which has the
highest research rating in the UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an adviser
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots. Crucially, it is vital that we speak
with those involved in the disturbances and those affected by them to try to
understand any lessons for public policy."

Previous incidents of serious civil disorder in England, such as the Oldham
riots in 2001 and the Brixton riots in 1981, led to government-commissioned
inquiries and reviews. Lord Scarman's public inquiry into the Brixton
disturbances, followed by rioting in Toxteth, Liverpool, proved a watershed for
social policy, warning that urgent action was required to tackle racial
disadvantage and distrust in police.

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into August's riots.
There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved in the
riots. A four-person panel announced by the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg,
will take evidence from residents in areas where there was rioting and report
preliminary findings in November.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts
and combine quantitative and qualitative research methods. At the heart of the
project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian over the last month.
The first is a database of more than 1,100 defendants who have appeared in court
charged with riot-related offences. The second database contains 2.5m riot
-related tweets. Executives at Twitter's headquarters in California authorised
the collation of tweets pooled from hashtags relating to the riots and their
aftermath, so they could form part of the study.

Julia Unwin, chief executive of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The JRF
believes that solid evidence has to be the driver for good policy. So, as
policymakers develop responses to the riots, the need for solid evidence on the
causes of the riots is crucial. Currently none exists."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                       April 12, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

BJP to JD(U): No riots took place in Gujarat, Narendra Modi is totally secular

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 307  words


New Delhi/Ahmedabad: Amid insistence by ally JD-U on projecting a "secular"
leader as NDA's prime ministerial candidate, BJP on Friday said Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi is "totally secular" and sought to justify it by saying
no riots took place in Gujarat during his rule.

The party also attacked the Congress saying it was suffering from "Modiphobia"
as one of its leaders raked up the 2002 Gujarat riots and drew a parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.

"Congress' efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depicts that Congress has Modiphobia," he told reporters.

He criticised Oil Minister Veerappa Moily for comparing the 1984 anti-Sikh riot
accused Jagdish Tytler with 2002 Gujarat riots and said they cannot be compared.

"Moily's comparison of 1984 riots with 2002 Gujarat riots is mere cheating. We
criticise the remarks made by Moily," he said.

He said the Supreme Court has given its go-ahead for reopening the case against
him in the anti-Sikh riots case, while there is nothing against Modi and making
such a comparison is unjustified.

"We are surprised that a person like Veerappa Moily, who has good knowledge of
law and has been a senior Central Minister, make such a comment," he said,
adding, "The whole nation knows that the Congress leaders had a direct role in
the Sikh riots."

Capt Abhimanyu said while Congress leaders have been "indicted" by various
Commissions appointed for looking into the 1984 riots against Sikhs, there is no
indictment or case made out against the Narendra Modi in the Gujarat riots that
took place in the aftermath of the Godhra incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Delhi Sikhs protest Rahul remarks

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 610  words


New Delhi, Jan 30 (IBNS) Members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee
and Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday held a protest outside the headquarters of
the Indian National Congress against Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi's
recent comments on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"We want justice, we want an SIT probe. We want the guilty to be hanged," said
one of the protesters.

"The Congress is responsible for the 1984 riots," he said.

Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday met Lieutenant Governor Najeeb
Jung and demanded a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots.

"I met the Lieutenant Governor today and sought a SIT probe into the 1984 riots.
He is very positive about it," Kejriwal told reporters.

"We will discuss forming of the SIT and its terms in the next cabinet meeting,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said he will not apologise for the comments
on 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"I was not involved in the riots. I was not a part of it. So there is no
question of apology," said Rahul Gandhi.

While Rahul Gandhi in a TV interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi on the Gujarat riots and defended his own party in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots after India Gandhis assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) slammed the Gandhi scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark
of his own father after the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots,Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Phase two of Reading the Riots: first rioters, next police and judges

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 517 words

ABSTRACT

Next the Guardian and London School of Economics will look in detail at the
communities affected by the riots and the work of the police and the courts
system following the August unrest

FULL TEXT

The interviews with 270 people directly involved in the August riots have formed
the core of the first phase of Reading the Riots, the Guardian's collaborative
study with the London School of Economics.

The second part of the research will look in greater detail at the experiences
communities affected by the riots, police officers who battled to keep control
of the streets and the criminal justice system which faced huge demand in the
aftermath of the disorder.

Next month, with continuing support from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the
Open Society Foundations, we will host a series of grassroots debates in riot
-affected cities across England.

The meetings will be open debates, organised in partnership with local community
groups and radio stations, ensuring they are opportunities for communities in
London, Birmingham, Manchester and elsewhere to express their views about the
riots.

It is important that police, too, have a platform to convey their experiences of
the disturbances. The Metropolitan police, which dealt with the largest amount
of disorder, described the riots as "unprecedented".

Employing the same methodology used with rioters - confidential interviews - we
hope to interview police officers of all ranks, not least those who risked their
lives on the front-line under testing conditions.

The story of the England riots has as much to do with their aftermath, and in
particular the response by the courts system.

More than 4,000 people have been arrested in connection with the riots; by
mid-October, close to 2,000 people had been charged and over 600 had reached a
final outcome.

At the height of disorder, courts were required to work under unusual
circumstances, with all night court sittings required to cope with the sheer
number of defendants. The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, who
visited Highbury magistrates court during one of the night sittings, was among
the many who praised the criminal justice system for its handling of riot cases.

However the sentencing response - which has seen harsher than usual punishments
for those involved in the riots, which have been considered an "aggravating"
factor - has proved controversial.

The second phase of Reading the Riots will therefore seek to better understand
how the courts system coped in the days, weeks and months after the riots, using
interviews with judges and magistrates, as well as court staff, prosecutors and
defence lawyers.

Next week, the Guardian and LSE will host a major conference to discuss the
first phase research findings. Speakers include: Theresa May, the home
secretary, Ed Miliband, the leader of the opposition, Bernard Hogan-Howe, the
Metropolitan police commissioner, Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary,
Julia Unwin, chief executive of Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Camila
Batmanghelidjh of Kids Company.

To contact the team, email: readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Islamabad Dateline

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London riots

SECTION: EDITORIAL Vol. I No. 291

LENGTH: 555  words


FIVE days into the London riots, yet no signs of a let up. Instead the riots are
spreading as far afield as Manchester, Birmingham and Nottingham. The prime
minister, David Cameroon rushed to London to deal with the worsening crisis.
Parliament has been recalled from recess to discuss the crisis. Police force in
London has been beefed up to all-high numbers. All these measures point to a
sense of emergency prevailing at Number 10 and Westminster.

The riots have sparked associated looting, arson and mindless violence. While it
is imperative to bring the situation under control by enhanced policing, it is
important to look at wider issues that have contributed to riots. On 4 August
the riot in Tottenham, London, were triggered by the fatal shooting of a black
Mark Duggan by the Met police's Trident unit.

The circumstances of the shooting looked suspicious to the Duggan family. Soon
police account of the shooting began to crumble when it came to light that the
bullet lodged in a police radio came from police issue weapon. The police
account has subsequently been comprehensively rejected by Independent Complaint
commission (IPCC). On August 6 a peace vigil organized by the Duggan family and
local community outside Tottenham police station turned violent when police
officers failed to allay the family anxieties on the suspicious circumstances of
fatal shooting.

This led to riots, with local youth clashing with police in Tottenham. later on
riots spread like wild fire to other districts of London. The riots involved
clashes with police, looting and shop-burnings. However, Britain is no stranger
to such riots. Since 1981 Britain has experience sporadic riots mostly triggered
by perceived heavy-handed treatment of ethnic and black communities by police.
Two inquiries - Scarman and McPherson - set up in 1981 and 1997 to investigate
the causes of previous riots fingered police-local community fraught relations
as the major trigger behind riots.

Despite sensible suggestion to improve policing of the ethnic areas, not much
progress seems to have made as shown up in the anger directed towards ethnic
policing in recent riots. Black and ethnic minority communities are 9 times more
likely to be stopped and searched than their white counter parts. Since 1990
more than 400 persons of ethnic minorities have died in police custody. Yet no
police officer has been convicted to date. This perceived insensitivity of the
criminal justice system coupled with discriminatory policing is a potential
tinderbox vulnerable to explosion whenever any trigger event of aggressive
policing happens.

On 6 August lack of confidence in the police investigation lit this tinderbox
with all its wider consequences. Given this backdrop, therefore it would not be
wise to treat these riots as purely law and order problem. Tottenham, the area
where riots first erupted , has above national average - partly generational -
unemployment , fourth highest child poverty rate in the country , vastly pared
down youth service in consequence of the coalition government austerity drive.
Other districts of London experiencing riots share similar socio-economic
profile. In the long-run there is an unarguable need for addressing these
underlying drivers of unrest to prevent a repeat of riots we have witnessed for
the last five days.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Islamabad Dateline
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

The Reading the Riots project: our methodology explained

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 884 words

ABSTRACT

How we and our academic partners went about collecting and analysing 1.3m words
of rioters' first-person accounts

FULL TEXT

Reading the Riots is the only research study into the causes and consequences of
the summer riots involving interviews with large numbers of people who actually
took part in the disorder. A project run jointly by the Guardian and the London
School of Economics (LSE), the aim was to produce evidence-based social research
that would help explain why the rioting spread across England.

The research was inspired by a study of the Detroit riots in 1967 involving a
collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and the University of
Michigan's Institute for Social Research. The Detroit project, which challenged
some of the assumptions about the cause of the unrest in the city, used
quantitative research techniques - multiple-choice questionnaires - to compare
populations that rioted with others that did not.

However, it was decided that a qualitative framework - involving in-depth,
free-flowing interviews with rioters - would be the most appropriate method of
studying the summer disturbances in England.

The first phase of Reading the Riots was completed in three months using
confidential interviews with hundreds of people directly involved in the riots
in six cities. It also involved a separate analysis, by academics at Manchester
University, of a database of more than 2.5m riot-related tweets.

The second phase - to be completed early next year - will involve interviews
with police, court officials and judges and a series of community-based debates
about the riots.

In September we advertised on the Guardian website for researchers with skills
in interviewing and good links with riot-affected communities. More than 450
people from across the country applied. A team of 30 was selected and trained
with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society
Foundations. They spent October interviewing people who had been involved in the
riots in six cities: London, Liverpool, Birmingham, Nottingham, Salford and
Manchester.

Each researcher was given a topic guide covering the major themes of their
interviews with rioters should cover. They were asked to find out how people
first heard about the riots, how they became involved, how they communicated,
what they did, why they thought the riots stopped and how they felt about their
actions now.

The questions were deliberately neutral and researchers were discouraged from
asking leading questions. Each interview tended to last at least 45 minutes and
allowed for an extended discussion between interviewer and respondent, providing
nuanced first-person accounts of people's experiences and perspectives.

Basic demographic data was collected about the interviewees, including where
they lived, their age and ethnicity, educational qualifications, previous
criminal history and whether they worked. They were also asked a series of
survey-style questions, on topics ranging from their thoughts on the riots to
their attitudes towards police - each of which was taken from a larger social
survey for the purposes of comparison.

We wrote to 1,000 people convicted during the riots and offered them the
opportunity to take part in the study. Researchers also visited their homes. But
primarily, local contacts were used to find people who were involved in the
riots but had not been arrested. After being promised anonymity, a surprising
number agreed to take part in the study, often because they wanted their story
to be heard.

Interviews were in various locations, such as people's own homes, youth clubs,
cafes and fast-food restaurants. The Ministry of Justice gave Reading the Riots
access to prisons, enabling interviews with about 13 people convicted for their
involvement in the riots. However, a large majority of the 270 people
interviewed for the project had not been arrested.

All interviews were recorded, transcribed and stored in a database. In total,
Reading the Riots collated more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters. Rigour in the analytical phase - mostly undertaken in November - was
vital.

Once all the data was collected, a team of five research analysts recruited by
the LSE began the complex task of analysing the lengthy transcripts in search of
themes. The process began with an analyst reading a transcript to get an
overview of its contents. After several readings, each transcript was then coded
so that particular themes could be identified and evidenced.

A list of coding labels was produced - essentially themes and sub-themes
appearing in the interviews - and these were reviewed by the research team on a
regular basis. The links and relationships between dozens of themes and
sub-themes such as government injustice, riot motivation, police, community, and
the role of social media, were constantly updated, providing an ever more
detailed picture of why the riots happened.

The relationships between the themes were recorded and displayed on a thematic
map document, allowing the team to see the larger, overall picture as a cohesive
set of findings began to emerge.

The analysis that has gone into producing these Reading the Riots findings is a
first attempt; transcripts will be subject to more advanced analysis in the
weeks and months to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                      November 23, 1999 Tuesday 2D EDITION

Anti-riot policy has initial OK CU looks at filming bystanders at melees

BYLINE: By Dave Curtin, Denver Post Higher Education Writer,

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-01

LENGTH: 651 words


BOULDER - Student leaders at the University of Colorado's  Boulder campus said
Monday that they agree in principle with a  proposal to film and fine riot
bystanders but withheld endorsement  until they can get feedback from students.

CU's trio of student body presidents - Tara Friedman, Dan  Pabon and Michelle
Richardson - said they also want to query other  schools about their riot
policies before diving into the  film-and-fine policy.

They met Monday with CU Regent Jim Martin, who stunned  university policy makers
at a Nov. 11 board meeting with a  proposed 'riot fee' for students and his
filming proposal to fight  CU's rash of riots.

'Forget party school. We're turning into a riot school,'  recent graduate and
Regent Maureen Ediger said at that meeting.

CU-Boulder students have been involved in six off-campus  riots or melees since
a two-day riot on University Hill near  campus in May 1997. The most recent was
Oct. 30, when costumed  Halloween revelers torched furniture, overturned a van
and threw  rocks at police. Only a handful of people were involved, but an
estimated 500 people watched, police said.

Martin wants private contractors with video cameras and  halogen lights to film
student bystanders at riots. Fines leveled  by a campus court would pay the
contractors' fee of $ 2,000 per  riot and would help pay for property damage.

Martin has backed off the idea of charging all students a  mandatory 'riot fee'
but insists that student bystanders who fuel  the frenzy be charged a stiff fine
- up to $ 1,000 each. Only  students who refuse to disperse after a police
warning would be  liable.

'The key is that people don't treat a riot as a sporting  event and that they're
aware that if they don't disperse, there  will be consequences,' he said.
'Rather than bringing in SWAT  teams, police bring in camera teams. Rather than
gearing up with  tear gas, they gear up with cameras. There are people out there

  trained, ready and able to do this.'

Filming firm already used

Boulder police already rely on a film production company that  arrives at riot
scenes armed with cameras and production lights.

The company arrived too late at the Oct. 30 riots to be  completely effective,
police said, although some pictures of  alleged rioters are posted on the the
Internet at  www.ci.boulder.co.us/.

CU already expels and suspends students identified as riot  participants through
a campus judicial process. Rioting also is  prosecuted in criminal courts.

But Martin is pushing for the campus policy aimed at riot  bystanders to start
in January, and he's asking for CU's student  government to lead the way.

CU's student body presidents said they are concerned about  distinguishing
between riot bystanders and innocent passersby and  differentiating between
potential riot situations and mass  congregations common on colleges campuses.
They also expressed  concern about misidentifying students.

'We generally agree with the concept, but we have to walk a  fine line here
because it's something that could easily backfire.  The devil is in in the
details,' said Richardson, a tri-executive.

Students dislike riot image

Said tri-exec Pabon, 'The bottom line is students are tired  of hearing about
these riots, and then the whole student body is  characterized as 'the riot
campus.' There's a lot of students who  don't like that image. I think there's a
lot of people who support  economic sanctions.'

Martin, addressing the students, said: 'Now is the time to do  something about
it, before someone gets seriously hurt and the  university gets a black eye. I
think this is urgent. It's easy to  still be talking about the same thing this
time next year. Ask  yourself what a reasonable student government should do in
a case  like this.'

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1999 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Label Head Black

BYLINE: Adrian Pearson

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 189 words


INTRO

COMMUNITY SENTENCE RE-OFFENDER RATES

MALE

Age group: 18 to 20

Top three offences

Public Order or Riot 259

Violence-non serious 225

Theft 223

21 to 24

Theft 371

Public Order or Riot 280

Violence-non serious 238

25 to 29

Theft 345

Public Order or Riot 186

Violence-non serious 151

30 to 34

Theft 415

Public Order or Riot 131

Violence-non serious 104

35 to 39

Theft 215

Violence-non serious 62

Public Order or Riot 62

40 to 44

Theft 150

Public Order or Riot 68

Violence-non serious 41

45 to 49

Theft 59

Public Order or Riot 30

Violence-non serious 22

50+

Theft 70

Public Order or Riot 65

Violence-non serious 27

RE-OFFENDER rates.

FEMALE

18 to 20

Theft 71

Public Order or Riot 57

Violence-non serious 36

21 to 24

Theft 119

Public Order or Riot 70

Absconding or Bail Offences 22

25 to 29

Theft 190

Violence-non serious 35

Public Order or Riot 35

30 to 34

Theft 115

Public Order or Riot 32

Absconding or Bail Offences 16

35 to 39

Theft 64

Violence-non serious 15

Public Order or Riot 15

40 to 44

Theft 41

Violence-non serious 10

Public Order or Riot 5

45 to 49

Theft 21

Public Order or Riot 12

Violence-non serious 3

50+

Violence-serious 1

Other Motoring Offences 1

Public Order or Riot 1

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BOXING DAY JOURNAL SPLASH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Tory rewriting doesn't wash

BYLINE: Solomon Hughes

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1009 words


Iain Duncan Smith told BBC's Panorama that our recent riots were nothing to do
with unemployment. Our Work and Pensions Secretary said that worklessness was
not an issue, because "these riots were not riots like the ones in the '80s.
These were intensely criminal activities" This made it sound like Duncan Smith
was a bit of a fan of '80s riots, disappointed with today's version. Was the
minister suggesting that Britain had better riots when he were a lad? Bemoaning
the decline of the English riot?

Iain Duncan Smith - IDS for short - implied that today's riots were all about
"street gangs" and "dysfunctional families" using disorder to cover their
looting, when in the 1980s they were plucky fellows protesting about
unemployment. To believe IDS now, you have to imagine he went through the '80s
chanting about "burning Babylon." IDS is trying to dismiss the social causes of
today's riots by implying he and his kind accepted the social causes of
yesterday's riots. But they didn't. IDS's heroes did all they could to deny the
economic and social roots past riots as well. The only reason people look back
to the riots of the '80s and think that unemployment was part of the problem is
because nobody believed the Tories then. Nor should we now. There is no mystery
about the riots. The spark comes from perceptions of police injustice. The fuel
comes from unemployment and bad conditions. Believing that you don't have much
of a future makes some people reckless about the present. A Tory government with
a cuts agenda in the middle of an economic crisis is a recipe for riots. It was
in 1981, and it was in 2011. Denying that the riots are a response to economic
conditions is what Tories do, then and now. Riots can be thuggish, violent,
bullying, self-destructive responses to economic conditions. Burning people's
houses or beating them, or bashing up your corner shop are all bad responses to
bad conditions. But the answer is about the economy and the state, not morality
and the family. History doesn't repeat itself exactly, but it is easy to forget
that the 1981 riots involved looting and burning. This was especially true in
Toxteth, but shops were also ransacked in Brixton and Wood Green. There were
also vicious assaults in the 1981 and 1985 riots. The balance between rioting
and looting and the political atmosphere might be different, but the basic
features were similar. The other common features were a Conservative government,
an economic squeeze and aggressive policing. The final feature is Tory
politicians claiming otherwise. Thatcher stood up in Parliament on July 9 1981
after national disorder, particularly after Toxteth, and said that the "had
nothing to do with problems of bad housing and unemployment. It was a spree of
naked greed." She was asked about unemployment, but blamed lawless children.
Labour MP Ron Leighton asked Thatcher "if society rejects those young people and
says that it has no use for them, they are likely to reject society and act in
an anti-social way." The Iron Lady snapped back: "In the area where violence and
rioting has occurred, a good deal of it has been carried out by children of
school age, some of them aged between nine and 16. That has nothing whatever to
do with the dole queue." For Thatcher the riots couldn't be about bad conditions
because they happened in "an area where a great deal of money has been poured in
through urban programmes." Enraged Liverpool Labour MP Eric Heffer called out
"stupid woman" twice, and was more or less physically restrained by the Labour
whip. Even Norman Tebbit's "get on your bike" quip was an argument that riots
were not fuelled by unemployment. He said that his dad in the '30s was faced
with unemployment but "he didn't riot, he got on his bike and looked for work."
There was plenty of blaming "criminal elements" in the '80s as well, although
more by police than politicians. According to the police, the 1985 Brixton Riot,
sparked by the shooting of Cherry Groce, was about "criminal elements." West
Midlands Chief Constable Geoffrey Dear blamed the 1985 Handsworth riot on "the
black criminal element." He said that drug dealers were the "people who were
behind this riot, acting in defence of enormous profits. There is a criminal
element which is acting for its own ends. "It is attempting to create a vacuum
in which drug dealers can carry on, and so can others interested in robbery and
other criminal activities." IDS other big idea is all about culture. He imported
this idea from US Republicans. The 1992 Los Angeles riot involved looting,
burning, inter-racial violence and attacks on small shopkeepers. Police beat and
shot rioters, but rioters also beat, humiliated and killed ordinary citizens -
53 people were killed at the hands of rioters and police. Even so, British
papers including the Mail and Times used words like "revolt" or even "uprising"
and accepted police violence and poverty helped prompt the ugly riot. But one
man didn't. Vice-president Dan Quayle stepped forward and started making noises
like IDS. Quayle said: "I believe the lawless social anarchy which we saw is
directly related to the breakdown of family structure, personal responsibility
and social order in too many areas of our society." He especially argued that
welfare payments made poor black people into feckless rioters. He spoke about a
"culture of poverty" an "underclass" where gangs are "like family." Quayle
called for "dismantling a welfare system that encourages dependency and
subsidises broken families." People were wary of Quayle because of his general
idiocy, including an inability to spell the word "potato." And this speech was
seen as an embarrassment, especially as he argued in it that a TV comedy about a
single mum was part of the moral breakdown leading to the riots. But now it
seems that Dan Quayle's daftness has been reborn, and made sensible, in the
mouth of IDS. So we either stick with the Tory formula, the IDS formula and the
Quayle formula, or we start changing the social conditions behind the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

My Word: Dori J. Maynard -- When is a riot a riot? Did you see what I saw?

BYLINE: Dori J. Maynard

SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; News; Local; Opinion

LENGTH: 844 words


BY NOW almost everyone knows that a group of demonstrators protesting against
the killing of a young father by a transit officer splintered off and began a
wave of destruction in downtown Oakland.

Mainstream media outlets called it everything from a riot to a violent protest.
Some bloggers referred to it as a civil unrest, rebellion or both a riot and
civil unrest.

Like is true with many issues, our perception of what happened is often shaped
by our fault lines of race, class, gender, generation and geography. Perhaps
because I live in Oakland and spent some years in Detroit, the home of one of
the worst riots of the last century, or maybe because the riots of the 1960s
were the backdrop of my childhood, to me, a riot is a greater event than what
happened in Oakland last week.

To me, a riot is a city coming to a standstill. It's big and it's terrifying,
not only to the people who are there, but to most of the people who live in the
city, if not the rest of the country. It's five days, 43 dead. It's almost 1,200
injured and more than 700 arrested, in the case of the 1967 Detroit riot that
forever changed the face of that city. Or it's six days, 54 dead, almost 2,400
injured, 12,111 arrested and $1 billion in damage in the case of the riot that
swept through Los Angeles after the acquittal of the police officers who were
seen on tape beating Rodney King.

It's something that collectively changes the way we think about that city, the
country, ourselves.

Comparing what happened in Oakland a week ago, nobody was killed in that mayhem,
few if any injuries occurred, and 105 were arrested, with three being formally
charged. Damages are still being tallied, but authorities expect there to be
more than $200,000, although that number could rise some. To be sure the total
will not come anywhere close to cost of the L.A. or Detroit riots.

This is not to minimize what happened. Breaking storefront windows, burning cars
and scaring local merchants are outside the bounds of tolerable behavior. But it
is to say that I think we need to pick our words carefully so we are comparing
oranges to oranges.

As we attempt to find a common language that will bridge the multicultural
communities that make up this country, perhaps we need to be even more precise
in our language. If we deem everything a riot, what words do we use to
distinguish between what happened in Oakland and what happened in Detroit? Don't
we owe it to our audience to find words that will help them understand the scale
of the events we are reporting?

As I discussed this with journalists around the country, it was clear there was
no agreed upon the definition of a riot, or even if a riot should be called a
riot or a rebellion. In one e-mail exchange, a journalist asked "The question
here is: Do we challenge the existing definition of a riot to something more
nuanced to embrace what people have become accustomed to think of as BEING a
riot."

For instance, after the King verdict, many called what happened in Southern
California a "riot." However, coming from another perspective, many also called
it a "rebellion" or an "uprising."

Where you sat in relation to those verdicts has a lot to do with how you view
what happened afterward   meaning, if you're a person of color who has been
harassed, or even beaten, by a cop in your lifetime, you might have viewed what
happened as an uprising. If you're a person who has had innocuous interactions
with the police and justice system, it might be crystal clear to you: "That was
a riot."

Another member of the e-mail exchange shot back, defending the use of the word
riot and resoundingly rejecting the notion of an uprising, arguing that it
doesn't matter if some of the people involved in the violence felt it was
justified.

After the 1992 Los Angeles riot, a columnist asked what do you do when you've
marched and you've sung and you've staged sit-ins and nonviolent protests, and
still you're told you don't count? I don't think he or anybody who uses the
words rebellion, uprising or civil unrest was attempting to justify the massive
destruction that devastated portions of the city. I think he was trying to lay
bare the sense of hopelessness and frustration that can trigger a level of anger
that has sent otherwise sane people into the streets.

It's not a point of view that comes naturally to some segments of our society,
just as it's hard for some segments to have faith in a fair police investigation
into the shooting of an unarmed African-American man.

For journalists, I don't think it's as important for us to agree or disagree
with these opinions. I think it's important that we continually evaluate the
words we use and constantly ask ourselves if we saw the same thing that members
of our community saw.

Dori J. Maynard is the president of the Robert C. Maynard Institute for
Journalism Education, which for 30 years has helped the news media reflect
America's diversity in staffing, content and business operations. This column
first appeared on the Idea Lab blog which can be accessed by visiting
www.pbs.org/idealab .

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Race Riot commemorations planned throughout summer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words


Below is a list of 1908 Springfield Race Riot commemoration events. The events
are free unless otherwise noted. For more events, visit
www.visit-springfieldillinois.com and www.sj-r.com/raceriot.

June 7

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: International House of Prayer.

* INFO: Call 528-9780 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

June 14 to Oct. 25

* WHAT: "Something So Horrible" exhibit.

* WHERE: Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library.

* INFO: Call 558-8934 or visit www.alplm.org.

June 21-22

* WHAT: Juneteenth Celebration. Juneteenth celebrates the end of slavery in the
U.S.

* WHEN: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

* WHERE: Comer Cox Park.

* INFO: Call 502-3701.

July 1-Aug. 31

* WHAT: Oral history of 1908 Race Riot. A "listening station" presenting oral
history of the race riot, sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library
and Museum.

* INFO: Call 558-8875 or visit www.alplm.org.

July 5

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: First Christian Church.

* INFO: Call 528-3407 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

Aug. 1-31

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit. Ask for a free copy of a
bibliography about the riot.

* WHERE: Illinois State Library, Author's Room.

* INFO: Call 558-2065.

Aug. 1-31

* WHAT: Sangamon County Collection Resources. A collection of historical
resources will be on display.

* WHERE: Lincoln Library of Springfield.

Aug. 1-Nov. 30

* WHAT: University of Illinois at Springfield 1908 Centennial campus events
(various).

* INFO: Call 206-7548 or visit www.1908raceriot.uis.edu/Site/Welcome.html.

Aug. 2

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception.

* INFO: Call 522-3342 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

Aug. 14

* WHAT: National members of the NAACP will gather for a ceremony at the Old
State Capitol. Plans still in the works.

Aug. 15

* WHAT: Two exhibits explore the 1908 Springfield Race Riot and related themes,
one through art honoring victims of the riot and the other through the
examination of genetics and race.

* WHERE: Illinois State Museum

* INFO: Call 524-5744 or visit www.museum.state.il.us.

Aug. 16

* WHAT: "The Story of Something So Horrible." A daylong forum with lecturers,
breakout sessions and a guided tour of the library's race-riot exhibit by
curator Dr. Carole Merritt. Reservations required. Lunch included.

* WHERE: Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library.

* INFO: Call 558-8934 or visit www.alplm.org.

Aug. 27, 1 p.m.

* WHAT: Riot presentation by Springfield city historian Curtis Mann. An
exploration of the riot, what preceded it and what followed afterward.

* WHERE: Illinois State Library.

* INFO: Call 558-2065.

Sept. 1-30

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit. SCI also will sponsor a visit
from Springfield Race Riot scholar Roberta Senechal. Date and time to be
announced.

* WHERE: Springfield College in Illinois-Benedictine University.

* INFO: Call 525-1420 or visit www.sci.edu.

Sept. 1-30

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit.

* WHERE: Rochester Public Library.

* INFO: Call 498-8454.

Sept. 13

* WHAT: Family-centered event exploring issues relating to the riot.

* WHERE: Illinois State Museum.

* WHEN: Time and other details to be determined.

* INFO: Call 782-6044 or visit www.museum.state.il.us.

Sept. 23, 1 p.m.

* WHAT: Topics to Chew On Program. Riot presentation by Springfield city
historian Curtis Mann. Registration required by Sept. 19. A donation for lunch
is requested.

* WHERE: Rochester Public Library.

* INFO: Call 498-8454.

Oct. 5, 4 p.m.

* WHAT: Oak Ridge Cemetery Walk. Actors portraying historical figures from the
riot tour related grave sites. Presented by the Sangamon County Historical
Society and Oak Ridge Cemetery. Donations accepted.

* WHERE: Oak Ridge Cemetery.

* INFO: Call 789-2340 or visit www.sancohis.org.

Oct. 10

* WHAT: 72nd annual NAACP Illinois State Conference. Keynote speaker Morris
Dees, Southern Poverty Law Center, sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential
Library and Museum and the Springfield branch of the NAACP, in conjunction with
the NAACP's State Conference.

* WHEN: 7 p.m.

* WHERE: President Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center.

* INFO: Call 544-8800.

Oct. 10-12

* WHAT: 72nd annual NAACP Illinois State Conference. "Transformation of a
Nation: Commemorating Our Past, Celebrating Our Future: 100th Year Commemoration
of the 1908 Springfield, Ill Race Riots."

* WHERE: President Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center.

* INFO: Call 544-8800.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1982, Sunday, Final Edition

If Liberals Need Riots, Let Whites Do It;
Want to Protest Reaganomics? Some advice from those who lit the fire last tim

BYLINE: By Juan Williams; Juan Williams is a metropolitan staff writer for The
Washington Post.

SECTION: Outlook; C1

LENGTH: 1664 words


I had planned on going to Sandy Point or Rehoboth this summer, but the liberals
of the world seem to want me on 14th Street. The tom-toms of progressive
thinking are beating out the message that this summer blacks should riot.

The argument goes something like this: Unemployment is up; government jobs
programs like CETA and federally subsidized summer jobs for teenagers are being
cut or eliminated; new federal requirements for welfare and food stamp
recipients make life harder for the poor; Ronald Reagan, a president poor people
and particularly urban blacks view as the enemy, is a monument to national
indifference in the White House.

To top it off, responsible Democratic Party leaders publicly condemn the
Republican attitude to life among the poor and elderly -- even the working and
middle classes. So liberal journals, betraying a left-wing romance with the idea
of change through violence, are writing about the need for a riot among blacks
and others in articles that give legitimacy to what anger may be percolating
this spring, ready to boil over in city streets come summer.

It seems the liberals haven't quite gotten over the fact that they failed to
convince many people that we need more social programs of the kind born of the
last riots in the '60s, programs generally run so badly that they gave charity
and compassion a bad name. So the liberals seem to be putting their last dollar
on riots to vindicate them.

In The Nation magazine, social scientists Frances Fox Piven and Richard A.
Cloward write: "Large scale protest in the United States now seems certain."
They go on to write that unions angry at the state of the economy, elderly
people angry at threats to Social Security, and even environmentalists angry at
James Watt will join with activists working for social service agencies --
people who are losing their jobs thanks to budget cuts -- to rage in the streets
against Ronald Reagan. That coalition, they predict, will join with the poor to
instigate "mass protest."

"Riots or Maurading Gangs -- Will They Strike Our Cities?" was the headline on a
late April column by Neal Peirce that began: "The voices of concern are so
responsible, so widespread they have to be taken seriously." There is Felix
Rohatyn, chairman of New York City's Municipal Assistance Corporation, pointing
to the "growing misery and despair among millions who cannot find work," warning
that "violence is the handmaiden of despair" and that without a quick turn in
the economy we may face a "very hot summer indeed."

Therefore, "Burn, baby, Burn," so we can all point at those Republican idiots
and say, "I told you so."

Well, as a young black, I'd personally prefer the beach.

Fourteenth Street-afire-revisited may be fun for those who need a chit in the
policy debate over the need for poverty programs, but for the people who are the
poor another round of riots would mean living through days and nights of fear
and watching neighborhoods just now on the mend from the '60s devastated again.

Almost anything to win an argument with conservatives, I say, but asking black
people to riot again is asking too much. Besides, a race riot wouldn't do much
good for the liberals. Their basic argument is not so much that Ronald Reagan is
a racist president as a rich man's president. And the people who could best
support that argument by rioting are not urban blacks. The people who could
really do it are the blue-collar, white-skinned workers of middle America.

Fair is fair. This country has not seen a good white riot in years. People are
almost starting to forget that most of the riots in our history were riots by
whites: the Veterans' Bonus March in 1931, Chicago's Haymarket Riot in 1886, the
Anti-Bank Riot in Baltimore in 1835, to name just a few triggered by
deteriorating economic conditions.

One more time, I say. If there are going to be riots, give black people and
black neighborhoods a break. What liberals need is a riot in a place like the
Polish-German South Side of Milwaukee or the Little Italy neighborhood of
Cleveland, working-class white neighborhoods where lots of people voted for
Ronald Reagan

What liberals need is an old-time, white- ethnic riot among people who believe
fervently in balanced budgets and tax cuts. That's what would send a
screaming-loud message to Ronald Reagan that inflation and unemployment are
replacing the American dream with night terrors of the kind that trickle-down
economics won't stop.

Whites whose historic memories are short, though, might need some reminders on
how to do a riot right, if they are crazy enough to do one at all.

First, you have to do it big, so big that the mayor and the police chief, with
sirens blaring behind them, say that what we've got here -- no question -- is a
real riot among white people.

Second, you have to get it going by 10 in the morning. That will give the 6
o'clock news teams plenty of time to get there for pictures of flaming
buildings. As black folks can tell you, a riot isn't a riot if the TV cameras
aren't rolling.

If you don't believe that, look at poor black neighborhoods today. Blacks are
robbing, mugging, assualting each other at record rates. Drug use and alchol
abuse are at all- time highs, as are divorce and child abuse. There is also a
startling increase in the number of murders now being committed by strangers in
big cities, in stark contrast to the old pattern of murders of passion comitted
by people who at least know each other, often as best friends, if not lovers or
spouses.

But where are the reporters? Where are the angry, bottle-throwing youth holding
off police? More importantly, where are the TV cameras? It may be a riot if you
live in the neighborhood and fear for your life. But its not a riot to CBS, The
Washington Post or Time magazine, so for all the good it's doing it might as
well be no riot at all.

If any blacks do decide to riot this summer, it may just be an extension of the
kind of rioting that has already been going on in black neighborhoods, with
gangs of unemployed kids starting to loiter in the downtown business areas
frequented by whites.

It would be great fun to say that black people have smartened up and aren't
going to despoil their own backyard if they riot this time, but the truth is
there isn't much left in the backyard to burn. The '60s riots were outbursts
against property. Stores owned by whites were looting and burned. There is
likely to be a different breed of riots if the fire comes this time.

Summer urban riots in 1982, I suspect, would be more along the lines of the
riots that struck Miami in 1980. That one is remembered for its awful crimes
against people who owned stores or businesses near Liberty City. Those people
were attacked -- even in their cars -- as they came near that ghetto.

In big Northeastern cities today the closest thing to a store that could be
burned would be the small corner shops and fruit stands being opened by
Orientals. As a favor to me, I ask that they be left alone so I can get a beer
without walking 10 miles. The rest of the stores have long left for the suburbs:
the department stores, the fix-it shops, the toy stores, even the supermarkets.

Riots this summer in big northern cities would be run-and-gun affairs, guerrilla
attacks featuring more crimes against people than against property. And unlike
Liberty City, most northern ghettos are not adjacent to affluent neighborhoods
or business strips owned by whites and attracting whites.

The only way a major riot of the old-fashioned variety could visit most big
cities is if poor people were to pick up and go downtown to what stores remain
there and to the office buildings that house largely white suburban workers.
That would require a mass movement. Never mind the absence of black power
leaders or even a black or poor people's movement of the '60s kind; if such a
mass movement of angry people were to occur, it would be readily detected by
police. And the police would defuse the situation before it exploded into a riot
or would meet it head-on with violence in the ghetto.

I might add that, politically, there wouldn't likely be great sympathy for
rioters in these Republican, law-and-order days. Major cities, fighting to keep
jobs within the boundaries of their tax base and occasionally attract a new
business and revive night life, are not going to pamper people threatening what
little has been done to rebuild cities since the last riots.

Black mayors, black middle-class people who are holding on to their way of life
in the city despite spiralling housing costs, will find common cause with whites
moving back to the city, with whites and blacks operating businesses in the
city, and in a very clear class confrontation they will show no tolerance of
rioters taking over any city. Times are hard for the middle-class, too, and they
are protecting their own as dollars get tight.

What that translates into on the streets for the poor is that rioters are going
to get their heads cracked by night sticks empowered by a vicious public
resentment at riots. And the orders for that stop-riot action will come from
black mayors and black police chiefs as quickly as from their white
counterparts.

The sad part of this is that the Reagan administration in the fall may take
pleasure in pointing out to liberal advocates of more social programs that there
were no riots -- no expression of pain among the people they said were hurting
so badly -- and, therefore, those people must not be hurting as much as the
liberals say.

That riots have become the ultimate measure of pain among the poor is an
indicator of the low state of public policy debate over the effect of the Reagan
program.

What the liberals need is not to have blacks out on 14th Street again. No, what
they need is to have blacks, like me, with reporters' notebook in hand, covering
it in a white neighborhood. In fact, if you can arrange to have your white riot
near the beach, right on.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, no caption, By Susan Davis for The Washington Post;
Picture, Some 10,000 jobless workers marched on Washington in January 1932
seeking help

                       Copyright 1982 The Washington Post


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 14, 2013 Monday

Iran riot police sets up women's unit

LENGTH: 354 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 14 January: Commander of Iran Riot Police says Women's Unit in the Riot
Police has been operational and that cavalry and SEPKA (Iran Investigation
Police Dogs) units are ready for the containing the riots.

Commenting on the deployment of female officers in the Riot Police, Brigadier
General Hasan Karami told Mehr News that the plan for recruitment of female
officers in the Riot Police was proposed this year so that the Police would have
a unit of women operational battalion at times of crisis.

He also said that that the structural outlines of the unit were approved by the
Chief of Police, and added "the missions for the female unit in the Riot Police
have been defined according to operations in investigation, in-action, arrest,
transport, and interrogation sections."

"If we do not succeed in making the women's unit operational this year, for sure
the first female police will start service in the Riot Police next year
[starting April]," asserted the Chief of the Riot Police.

He believed that these female units receive different training and have
different features, and said that the Riot Police female officers should be
physically strong and agile.

Karami said that currently only one such unit for the recruitment of female
officers was specified, adding that "the unit can grow stronger at critical
times. The officers must display high capabilities."

Commenting on other Riot Police units, Karami said that currently the Cavalry
unit, a special unit for riots, and the parachute unit, with most competent
paratroopers of the Armed Forces, operated in the units.

"The hostage rescue unit, with the most competent forces across the country, the
SEPKA unit (Iran Investigation Police Dogs and Marches Control Police Dogs), and
the Naval Unit are among other subunits in the Riot Police," he added.

Karami pointed to the operation of disarmament and anti-terrorist units in the
Riot Police and said "the special Women Officers Unit will be added to the Riot
Police by next year."

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1425 gmt 14 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

11 more charged in connection with Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 239 words


Another 11 people have been charged in connection with the Stanley Cup riot,
bringing the total number charged to more than 150.

The ongoing riot probe announces charges periodically as criminal investigations
are completed, with police forwarding recommendations to Crown counsel for final
charge approval.

With the addition of 11 new suspects, the total number of riot suspects now
facing charges swell to 156.

A news release from the Criminal Justice Branch lists the new suspects facing
charges as:

? Carlos Barahona-Villeda, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? Nathan Blake, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, assault with a
weapon and possession of a weapon.

? Robert Dack, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Ioannis Kangles, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? David Leonati, charged with taking part in a riot and assault.

? Michael MacDonald, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Jonathan Mahoney, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, assault with a
weapon and mischief.

? Robert Timleck, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, mischief and
breach of recognizance.

? Mark Blyth, charged with taking part in a riot and mischief.

? Kevin Mercier, charged with taking part in a riot, assault and mischief.

? Vasilios Makris, charged with taking part in a riot, assault, mischief and
break-and-enter

iaustin@theprovince.com twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday

6 worst communal riots under UPA government

BYLINE: Apoorva Rao

LENGTH: 455  words


Tall claims of providing secular governance of the Congress lie shattered as the
country finds itself shaken again by the recent devastating example  of communal
violence in Assam. Looking at history Congress doesn't fare any better than the
Bharatiya Janata Party in preventing communal riots. Here are some of the major
events that took place under the Congress rule

2013 Muzzafarnagar riots: During the months of August and September,  riots
broke out in Muzaffarnagar district in Uttar Pradesh  that resulted in nearly 62
deaths of which 42 victims were Muslims and 20 Hindus. The riot between Hindu
Jats and Muslims was said to have been triggered by a sexual harassment incident
but in reality was an outcome of intensive communal campaigning in the state by
Hindu right wing groups.

2012 Assam riots: Kokrajhar has sadly been witness to communalism even in the
past. In 2012, July 20, riots broke out in Kokrajhar which later spread out to
the lower regions of Assam. 77 people were reported to have been killed. Around
,79,000 people from about 500 villages had to take shelter in 128 relief camps.
The riots took place between Bodo community and Bengali speaking Muslims of the
region. The clashes have their roots in the mid-nineties and peace still evades
the region as the riots continue to happen even today.

2011 Bharatpur riots: On 14 September, clashes broke between Gujjars and Meo
Muslims in Bharatpur Rajasthan. Eight people were killed and 23 were injured.
Top BJP and Congress leaders of the region were involved in the riots.

2010 Deganga riots: The Deganga riots had begun on on Monday September 6 and
continued for several days. 24 people were hurt and several houses and
properties got destroyed when clashes broke out between Hindu and Muslim
communities in the Basirhat sub-division of North 24 Parganas, about 150 km from
Kolkata.2008 Dhule riots: In October 2008, 4 people were left dead as Hindu and
Muslim communities clashed. The incident left over 200 people injured that
included 113 policemen.

2006 Aligarh riots: Riots broke out on April 5 between Hindus and Muslims over
Ram Navami celebrations. Five people were killed due to the violence

Since 1967, 15 major incidences of communal violence took place out of which ten
happened under the Congress or Congress' ally ruled region.

In the year 2013,  479 incidents of communal violence took place with 107 people
dead injuring 1,647 people including 200 policemen injured.

In 2012, there were 640 incidents of communal violence with 93 deaths. The
violence left 2,067 people injured.

Though the ruling Congress party has had no political alliance with religious
fundamentalist groups, it has consistently failed to maintain peace and
stability in the country

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 28, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

BJP slams Rahul on 84 anti-Sikh riots

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 444  words


New Delhi, Jan 28 (IBNS): While Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi in a TV
interview attacked BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on the Gujarat
riots and defended his own party in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots after India
Gandhi's assassination, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the Gandhi
scion on the issue and asked him to explain the remark of his own father after
the post-assassination massacres.

BJP senior leader, MP and deputy leader of Opposition Ravi Shankar Prasad
slammed Rahul Gandhi for accusing Modi and reminded him of the statement by his
father and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made after the Sikh riots.

"His allegations against the Gujarat Government of encouraging the riots of 2002
not only shows his ignorance but also an attempt to indulge into rank falsehood.
The Gujarat Government did it best to prevent riots and SIT constituted by the
Supreme Court after extensive investigation found all the motivated allegations
against Sh. Narendra Modi to be false and baseless, which has also been accepted
by the Court," said Prasad.

"Today, there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted
and in case of many trials is going on. On the contrary the way in which he
sought to defend the Congress Government in relation to 1984 riots is deeply
condemnable. What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv
Gandhi - when big tree falls, the earth shakes and the manner in which Congress
leaders involved in the massacre where shielded by the Government and the
investigating agencies which has compelled the courts to make adverse comments,"
asked Prasad.

"He did not utter a word why it took so long to call the army in Delhi in 1984.
Mr. Rahul Gandhi kept completely quiet on the recent communal violence in UP and
also Assam," said Prasad.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told
Times Now news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Oct  31, 1984.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Any new riots will be about race, not jobs

BYLINE: HARRY REID

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 702 words


BRENDAN Barber, secretary general of the TUC, is usually a dignified and
restrained figure, but earlier this week he slid into uncharacteristically
rumbustious mode. Addressing  the TUC conference in Liverpool, he recalled riots
in the city almost 30 years ago and warned of a repeat. His theme was that
prolonged mass unemployment would have a devastating effect on social cohesion.

There were, indeed, riots in Liverpool in the early 1980s, with looting and
arson and frightening levels of violence. Apocalyptic  scenes were shown nightly
on television. The first riots had been in Bristol. Serious trouble erupted
later in parts of Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Leicester, Derby and Blackburn,
as well as Liverpool. Some of the most vicious rioting was in Brixton in London.

I admire much of Margaret Thatcher's record, but her reaction to the riots
showed her at her worst.

She seemed mainly concerned to fulminate against social indiscipline, and seized
on the undoubted fact that the worst riots were not always in the most run-down
areas.

Her Home Secretary, Willie Whitelaw, a more compassionate and sensitive
politician, disagreed with her approach. Eventually, Michael Heseltine was sent
to Liverpool and Lord Scarman was invited to inquire into the Brixton riots,
which were perhaps the nastiest. Scarman, significantly and correctly, dwelt on
the racial aspect but, unfortunately, his report recommended the reintroduction
of hated "Sus" laws under which people could be arrested on mere suspicion.
Police forces were issued with new anti-riot gear (which was to come in handy
during the year-long miners' strike).

Calm returned to the streets, despite Mrs Thatcher's inadequate and
unimaginative response, and the nation settled back to watch the nuptials of
Charles and Diana, in their own way a riot of falsity and fantasy.

In one respect, the then Prime Minister was right. The riots had not really been
about unemployment.

Reviewing these dangerous and violent times much later, Professor Richard Vinen,
a thoughtful historian of the Thatcher era, came to the conclusion that, pace Mr
Barber, the riots were rooted in racial conflict and excessively forceful
policing. He pointed out that many areas of very high unemployment - for
example, various parts of Scotland - witnessed no riots at all.

The first riots, in the St Paul's area of central Bristol, were without doubt
race riots. The same was true of most of the "copycat" riots that followed. Of
course, many young blacks were unemployed, but the riots were essentially the
revolt of a furious racial minority, which believed - with some justification -
that it was discriminated against by insensitive and aggressive police.

There are lessons here, though not the kind that Brendan Barber was learning. It
would be crass and irresponsible to deny the corroding effect of unemployment,
especially when it is now hitting a 14-year high. But it tends to sap the will
rather than produce explosive violence. In the summer of 1991, I was allowed to
join the People's March for Jobs across industrial Lancashire (a relatively
small march organised to mark the tenth anniversary of the great People's March
of 1981). The march ended at Liverpool, where unemployment levels were then
around 20per cent.

I spent a day on the road with the unemployed marchers, starting in downtown
Wigan.  It was  fascinating - and, in a downbeat kind of way, rewarding - to
listen to their stories. They were resigned and philoso phical. Their mood was
of quiet resentment rather than burning anger. When anger was expressed, to my
surprise it was directed against the trade unions. I was told that the fewer
members unions had, the more officials they seemed to require. The main message
was that the unions ignored the unemployed.

If we are worried, as Mr Barber claims to be, about the possibility of renewed
rioting, we should be concerned about race more than unemployment. Current
racial tensions are of a very different nature from those of the early 1980s,
but the new tensions are even more dangerous. Just look at the website of the
so-called English Defence League. Unemployment obviously does not help social
cohesion, but it rarely leads to blood on the streets.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 3, 2015 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Riots

BYLINE: Cathy Lisa Schneider

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1319 words


On Monday, following the funeral of Freddie Gray, who died of injuries allegedly
suffered while in police custody, days of peaceful protests in Baltimore morphed
into violent confrontations between police and stone-throwing youths. By
evening, stores and cars were burning. The Baltimore riots, preceded by the
violent demonstrations in Ferguson, Mo., last August and November, have
reignited old misunderstandings and untruths about who riots and why.

1. Riots are caused by outside agitators and activists.

New York blamed "outside agitators" for violence in 1964. Ferguson did the same
in 2014. Now Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake is blaming non-locals for
the riots, and the police department insists that "outside agitators continue to
be the instigators behind acts of violence and destruction." Riots, however, are
almost always homegrown. In Ferguson, only 21 percent of those arrested in
August were from outside Missouri, and 76 percent were from Ferguson or
surrounding towns. And of the 31 adults arrested in Baltimore as of last Sunday,
only three were not Maryland residents.

The main participants in riots, my research shows, are usually young people from
disadvantaged neighborhoods that have been virtually occupied by police; they
usually  feel powerless in the face of police brutality. When riots erupt, the
balance of power momentarily inverts, and youths normally cowed by police
experience a heady sense of efficacy and freedom.

Activists, in contrast, rarely participate in riots. More confident in their
ability to effect social change, experienced activists tend to channel community
anger into nonviolent forms of collective action. Their presence actually makes
riots less likely.

2. The best way to stop a riot is strong police action and repression.

By Tuesday afternoon, 1,700 National Guard troops had arrived in Baltimore,
along with armored Humvees and other military vehicles. Police frequently
respond to protesters with tear gas and rubber bullets, as seen in Anaheim in
2012, Ferguson and Baltimore.

But police violence, in particular the killing of unarmed minority youths, is
often the trigger for urban riots, so police repression prolongs the conflict.
In Anaheim, police attacks on nonviolent protesters marked the turn from peace
to riots. Researchers theorize that the very presence of weapons might make
violence more likely .

A huge police deployment is not the only way to avert a riot. In 1968, as the
assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. sparked massive upheavals in Detroit,
Chicago, Newark and Washington, New York remained quiet. Mayor John Lindsay, who
had been vice chairman of the Presidential Commission on Civil Disorders, knew
that most riots break out in neighborhoods where the relationship between the
police and the community has grown toxic and rendered the areas combustible.
Policing is just too important to be left to police, Lindsay concluded. After he
took office in the mid-1960s, he sought to give minorities a sense of ownership
in government by creating task forces in "hot" neighborhoods and hiring young
people as peacekeepers and communication liaisons. The youths kept city
officials informed about potentially explosive issues. During a decade of
ethnographic research in New York for my book, I found that many of those
liaisons grew up to forge organizations with a standard nonviolent repertoire
for fighting police brutality.   They are part of the reason riots are still
rare in New York, even after police violence began its relentless climb in 1994
with the implementation of zero-tolerance policing strategies.

3. Rioters are defending people who committed crimes.

Deaths or injuries at the hands of police officers frequently trigger riots, but
the victims are often blamed - he had a record, he shouldn't have run, he
shouldn't have resisted, he shouldn't have reached for the cop's weapon. New
York Patrolmen's Benevolent Association President Patrick Lynch argues that
officers face deadly threats from "the perps on the street corner. . . . We're
getting shot."

But rioters are responding to long-simmering issues, not just one particular
police act, which might be a symptom of a systemic problem. Since reporting on
the use of lethal violence is not required, police tend to report those
incidents that involved return fire or possession of a gun. Yet many cities
quietly settle lawsuits over unjustified killings and other misconduct at a cost
of millions of dollars a year. In the 1990s, New York paid out around $25
million a year to settle police brutality claims; that number has increased to
about  $100 million in recent years. Baltimore has paid $6 million in police
abuse lawsuits since 2011. Moreover, in New York, more than 70 percent of
accusations of resisting arrest are filed by 15 percent of police officers,
which suggests that such charges have more to do with the conduct of the
arresting officers than with that of the people being arrested.

4. The mass incarceration of black men has led to a decline in riots.

Since the mid-to-late 1970s, the number of riots in the United States has
dropped  sharply, a development often attributed to the fact that more minority
men are in prison. As sociologist Pamela Oliver put it: "The crucial thing to
understand is that a repressive strategy initially triggered by massive urban
unrest and other social movements was maintained and expanded long after the
riots abated. It was not aimed at preventing unrest by repressing riots: it was
preventing unrest by repressing potential rioters . . . removing people from the
system before they commit[ted] the undesired action."

Mass incarceration has had a devastating impact on black and Latino men and on
minority neighborhoods, but it cannot account for the decline in riot frequency
since the 1970s, a decade before the explosive growth in incarceration rates. A
mammoth uprising took place in Los Angeles in 1992, when California's
incarceration rate was well above average.  Missouri, home to the Ferguson riots
, ranks 10th for its incarceration rate, and  Baltimore has one of the highest
incarceration rates of any U.S. city.

Instead of preventing riots, the punitive turn in criminal justice has
multiplied the number of negative encounters between police and minority youths.

5. Riots accomplish nothing.

So say countless pundits, columnists and politicians. As the mayor of Baltimore
insists, riots divert attention from the real problems. "It is idiotic to think
that by destroying your city, you're going to make life better for anybody," she
said Monday. "Too many people have spent generations building up this city for
it to be destroyed by thugs who, in a very senseless way, are trying to tear
down what so many have fought for."

But as FCC commissioner Nicholas Johnson famously said after the 1968 uprising
in Washington: "A riot is somebody talking. A riot is a man crying out: 'Listen
to me, Mister. There's something I've been trying to tell you, and you are not
listening.' " Unfortunately, riots are sometimes the only way those living in
marginalized neighborhoods are heard. Rioters in Ferguson put the issue of
police violence on the public agenda. It was only when Ferguson was in flames
that the Justice Department investigated and condemned the city's pattern of
civil rights violations.

Yet the Justice Department did not pursue an investigation of the LAPD after the
deaths of Ezell Ford and Omar Abrego; of the NYPD after the deaths of Akai
Gurley and Eric Garner (though the department did investigate Garner's death);
of police in Oklahoma City after the death of Luis Rodriguez; of police in
Orlando after the death of Maria Godinez; or of police in Rocky Fork, Colo.,
after the killing of Jack Jacquez, to name just a few killings in the past year.
Michael Brown is a household name. Jack Jacquez, whose killer has been charged
with murder, is not.

Twitter: @schneidercathy1

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Here's the riot squad - Redfern, Macquarie Fields, Cronulla, finally ...

BYLINE: STEVE GEE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 322  words


IT took three race riots in less than two years -- but finally we have a riot
squad.

The hand-picked squad of 50 officers, based at Ryde, will be on call 24 hours a
day.

Their new tactics will include the use of riot shields and horses to force back
lines of rioters.

A further 600 police from across the state have been trained in riot response
tactics and can be called in at any time. Eventually there will be 1200 riot
-trained police on call across the state.

Unveiling the Public Order and Riot Squad yesterday, Premier Morris Iemma denied
the squad was too little too late in the face of violent conflicts around
Sydney.

''There's riot police, tough new powers and plenty more coming in the fight to
take back control of the streets and to ensure peaceful, law-abiding citizens
can go about their business,'' Mr Iemma said.

''This is another step in our fight to take back the streets in our crackdown on
anti-social behaviour and riotous behaviour.

''The message is a simple one: If you want to riot we've got riot squads and
we've got plenty of cells in our jails to accommodate you.''

Mr Iemma denied Sydney had an ethnic gang problem, saying: ''No matter what
their ethnicity, no matter where they come from the message is a simple one --
your behaviour won't be tolerated.''

The Government announced plans to reform the riot squad -- axed in the 1980s --
after the Redfern and Macquarie Fields riots.

Deputy Police Commissioner Terry Collins said police had learned from the
experience of last year's Macquarie Fields riot, in which officers were injured
by missiles as they held their positions.

''We've gone through that. We've tried to do that softly, softly

approach, quite frankly,'' Mr Collins said.

''We'll certainly be putting large contingents -- a large field force -- of
police out there with a clear mandate to do what they need to do, not just stand
there in the line, cop molotov cocktails, cop rocks being pelted at them.''

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 12, 1994 Saturday

THE WEST   Vancouver turns blind eye to the police role   on the Night of Shame

BYLINE: ROBERT MASON LEE; GAM

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: Vancouver BC


BY ROBERT MASON LEE
  VANCOUVER
IN the aftermath of the Stanley Cup riot here last June 14, two things
became as clear as shattering glass. One, the response to the riot would
be nearly as hysterical as the riot itself. Two, the lawless, faceless mob
would take all the blame. This leads to a most convenient three, which
just happens to be the number of inquiries looking into the riot. And
another number, nought, which is the scrutiny so far given to the police.
Something doesn't add up.

Nor is it likely that the mathematics of rioting are about to change.
Unlike pure maths, riot maths are affected by the political climate. These
are warm and sunny law-and-order days for the police, but a winter of hard
rain for unruly young offenders.

Since the night of the riot, there has been a dogged avoidance of any
public discussion concerning the police response. The street gutters are
strewn, meanwhile, with hands wrung off in anxiety and despair over the
Night of Shame.

In this scenario, Vancouver is invariably dressed in a petticoat and
cast as the Despoiled Virgin; a shiftless and bitter mob of young
nihilists plays the Pillaging Hun. (The lament for Vancouver's lost
innocence overlooks the 1963 Grey Cup riots, when 171 were arrested for
taking the city's virginity the first time.) Soon after the Stanley Cup
riot this year, a Vancouver police commander described the crowd, in a
newspaper article he wrote, as "the Beast . . . a manifestation of evil .
. . a snarling, salivating monster."

This week, a composite picture of the Beast was contained in a
surprisingly good study, prepared by city officials, of the riot and its
lessons. The manifestation of evil was a white teen-age male from the
suburbs, who had been drinking in expectation of a Vancouver Canucks
victory over the New York Rangers. He was lured to the downtown core by
the television cameras and newspaper predictions of "party central," only
to find himself in a mob with nothing to do.

The riot was caused in equal parts by booze and boredom, a common
enough household poison, let alone when flowing through the veins of "a
snarling, salivating monster." I have attended dozens of riots; I was also
at the corner of Robson and Thurlow, the epicentre of the Vancouver riot.
My experience supports the Vancouver city-hall report, when it says:
"Compared with major riots elsewhere in the world, many experts would see
the Robson Street incident as less like a riot and more like a large,
unruly house party." That is, until the tear gas started flying and
tempers flared.

The staff report does not call for a ban on downtown gatherings, nor
does it find it realistic to expect crowds to avoid the hub of Vancouver
nightlife. But it does propose a fast-response team of city managers with
plans and a budget to prevent the crowd from turning into a riot.

It suggests diversions, such as fireworks or a substance-free dance, to
give the crowd something to do. It poses serious questions about the role
of media hype in provoking the riot. It suggests that riot control might
include plans for keeping access routes open, the early removal of
troublemakers, the division of the crowd into small groups and the
isolation of the trouble area.

Although prevented by its mandate from reviewing police action, these
latter observations reflect veiled concerns that city police may have been
poorly prepared for the riot and heavy-handed in their response. There
have been mutterings to this effect, but they have not received a
sympathetic hearing.

At a sparsely attended public meeting with Vancouver police, two men
complained that they were gassed without warning and would have dispersed
earlier if given the chance. The presiding chief constable replied: "Tear
gas is not going to hurt anybody. It won't kill you."

Both the Vancouver police and the arm's-length B.C. Police Commission
are studying the police role in the riot. Neither has whipped up much
public participation. Combined, they held one public meeting that drew 20
people. It is not yet known how much of the internal police review will be
made public.

Police have been unrelenting, meanwhile, in their pursuit of the
rioters. Television viewers have grown weary of the police videos, often
obtained by subpoena and search warrant, that spotlight individual
rioters. A high-tech computer kiosk has been set up, where the public can
screen video footage to identify suspects and alert police to their
whereabouts.

The Vancouver police would be remiss if they did not take every
reasonable step to bring the rioters to justice. They would be just as
remiss if the investigation of their own conduct were pursued with any
less rigour.
 Robert Mason Lee is a Vancouver journalist and author.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1994 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

England riots: Alex Salmond angry as 'UK' headlines sweep Scotland into fray

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 655 words

ABSTRACT

Scotland's leader fears copycat riots and damage to tourism as media portrays
unrest with broad brush

FULL TEXT

Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, has complained about broadcasters
headlining coverage of urban unrest as "UK riots". Salmond said he was not
complacent but claimed Scottish society was different from that in England, and
that similar riots were much less likely in Scotland.

By referring to the riots as being UK-wide, he said, the risk was increased of
copycat riots in Scotland and damage to Scotland's reputation as a tourism
destination.

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, he said: "We know we have a different society in
Scotland, and one of my frustrations was to see this being described on BBC
television and Sky as riots in the UK. Well, until such time as we do have a
riot in Scotland, then we've seen riots in London and across English cities.
It's actually unhelpful to see them inaccurately presented, because one of the
dangers we face in Scotland is copycat action."

His stance was backed by Scottish National party MSPs, as well as bloggers, who
claimed that Welsh and Northern Irish citizens would share the irritation.

But Labour and the Liberal Democrats accused Salmond of "scoring cheap political
points", saying he was guilty of significant political misjudgment.

Meanwhile, police in Cardiff reported four incidents in the city on Tuesday
night, including two arson attacks, an attempted looting and disturbances at a
takeaway.

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, said: "The first minister's reaction to
the riots is small-minded, and embarrassing if he really thought the most
important thing was that they should be called 'English riots' on TV. Surely he
could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities devastated
by this criminal violence first and foremost?"

Gray said his daughter had married a man from Manchester this week; his family,
who had just visited the Scottish parliament, were worried about the violence in
their home city.

Gray said: "I was proud to show them the Scottish parliament but embarrassed by
the first minister's keenness to distance himself from their concerns and
portray the riots as an English problem. There are few Scots who don't have
relatives or friends in the places affected south of the border. Alex Salmond
does not seem to recognise that there are many parts of England that are luckily
untouched by riots, like Scotland, and that an argument about their geography
helps no one."

Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrats' leader, accused Salmond of
"seeking narrow political advantage out of the misery of others". He added:
"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder, and instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep-rooted issues here."

Two teenagers are to appear in court in Scotland accused of trying to
orchestrate riots using Facebook: a 16-year-old will attend Glasgow's court and
an 18-year-old is expected to appear at Dundee sheriff court on similar charges.
Tayside police said they were pursuing other similar investigations.

Joan McAlpine, a prominent backbencher who is close to Salmond, tweeted:
"#ukriots: the riots are NOT in UK or Britain. They are in England. Scotland is
riot free & welcomes all peaceful visitors. #noriotsinscotland." She added
later: "That's incorrect and could damage Scotland unfairly," adding in another
tweet: "It's an English problem."

The SNP contrasted the description of the riots as UK disturbances, with
coverage of the sectarian violence and parcel bombs targeting Celtic football
club this year: this was not seen as "UK".

Visiting Sunderland fans, in Edinburgh for a friendly match on Saturday against
Hibernian, were violently attacked by local youths before and after the game.
There were eight arrests and two people treated for a broken rib and head
injuries.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

I predict a riot

BYLINE: Keith Flett

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 542 words


Living in Tottenham I have a personal and representative interest in the matters
of predicting riots, but my researches are mostly directed by a conference I'm
organising on the history of riots at the Institute of Historical Research on
February 25. It is a vast subject and a conference will not be able to cover
more than a few issues, but central to it is what we can learn from the history
of such outbursts of anger. In north London over the last six months there has
been no shortage of investigations into riots. There was an official government
riot panel, a citizens' inquiry and the Reading the Riots project sponsored by
the Guardian and the London School of Economics.

This last has some historical framework around it - mainly the riots in US
cities from the 1960s on - but otherwise a historical understanding has been
absent. When history has been referred to, it has been used to underline the
unsurprising but unhelpful thought that while riots in history may have had
important reasons, contemporary ones by definition do not. This view can be
found in the interesting book by Tottenham MP David Lammy, Out Of The Ashes, and
it was also echoed by Eric Hobsbawm in an interview with Jeremy Paxman on BBC
Newsnight. The problem with this view is that when you do look at the history of
riots the key thing is that while the causes may differ the actuality is very
similar. A crowd gathers, a melee occurs, windows are broken, occasionally
properties are burned and even more occasionally people are actually hurt.
Likewise historically - and again this point has contemporary echoes - the state
has been quite reluctant to intervene. A local figure of authority, a judge for
example, arguing with rioters that they were better off not rioting has possibly
had more impact than the use of force. Definitions of what constitutes a riot -
even before the Riot Act was abolished in 1973 - were less than clear on what
exactly was supposed to happen in the hour between its reading and the
authorities actually dispersing any remaining rioters. Equally problematic was
how much force could legally be deployed, again echoed recently in debates about
whether the use of water cannon would be appropriate. The issue of whether a
riot can be predicted has become one of some importance. Historically a division
is drawn between the causes of riots - food shortages, local political issues
and national protests - the nature of the riot that ensues and its
predictability. It has been an issue recently because at the moment only the
police have the power to determine whether a riot has taken place or not. If
they decide it has then they or the state are liable for any costs that have
arisen has a result of damage to property. If it has not then insurers must
carry the liability under policies which exclude rioting from being a cause of
paying out. If you look at the appropriate historical texts, it is envisaged
that certain situations may well need lead to riots. For example in Lewes in
1857 there was a riot because a funeral was delayed by an hour. An account of
the event notes that everyone knew that if such delays occurred than a riot
would occur. But I doubt if the police will be looking at history books to
determine the matter.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

Delhi government pledges free legal aid to 1984 riot victims

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 450 words


NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his
government will provide free legal assistance to all victims of the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. In an emotional discussion on the riots during which Rajouri
Garden MLA Jarnail Singh broke down, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said that he would
seek time from Prime Minister Narendra Modi so that all 70 MLAs could meet him
and ask for prompt action on the SIT set up by the ministry of home affairs to
investigate the riots. The House also demanded action against Congress member
Jagdish Tytler for his alleged involvement in the riots.

Kejriwal also said that had exemplary punishment been given to the perpetrators
of the 1984 riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots would not have happened. "The Sikh
community had been asking for an SIT for 30 years. When the AAP government came
to power in 2013, we constituted an SIT. Before it could be made functional our
government resigned. But before we came back to power, the home ministry formed
another SIT. We are willing to support it but I don't see anything happening,"
said Kejriwal.

The motion was moved by Singh who spoke at length about the riots, relating his
personal experiences of the riots in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination. Hari Nagar MLA Jagdeep Singh, who was 13 years old at the time of
the riots, also recounted how he went hospital to hospital with his mother,
looking for his father who had disappeared during the riots and alleged that
both BJP and Congress had only played politics over the issue.

"In one block of Trilokpuri, 500 men were killed. Where is the accountability
for these riots? Why can't we bring in a law that will fix responsibility on the
police and administration to stop the riots within a fixed time frame?" said
Jarnail Singh.

Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan first raised the issue of the Gujarat riots, saying
that if Tytler had been punished for his role in the 1984 riots, then the riots
in Muzaffarnagar, Trilokpuri and other places would not have happened.

The motion moved by the House stated: "This House requests the Union government
to take immediate cognizance of the recent revelations made against Congress
leader Jagdish Tytler in affidavits of CBI by one Abhishek Verma, that this
Congress politician influenced witnesses and made payments through hawala, and
order registration of a criminal case against him. The SIT notified by the Union
home ministry earlier this year must be asked to submit its report within the
stipulated deadline. All cases which were closed by the Delhi Police, which is
itself an accused organization of the 1984 riots, must be reopened and
investigated by an impartial agency."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Barking & Dagenham Post

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday

Rioters: Criminality, pure and simple?

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 321 words


'The Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition have
asked the independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel to explore why the
August riots happened, so they might be prevented from happening again.



Over the past month we have been travelling around England speaking to shop
keepers, "riot wombles" and young people about their experiences.

When we visited Barking, traders told us of the negative impact the riots have
had on their business.

We were struck by the strong community spirit from residents and the resilience
of some traders that we met on a walkabout in the affected areas.

We held a public meeting at the end of the day, where really interesting views
on the riots were shared.

However, I am determined that the panel does not fall into the trap of
concluding what caused the riots, and what we might do to prevent them from
happening again, until we have spoken to as many people as possible.

There has been no shortage of national commentary, opinion and speculation on
the riots, and these visits are really valuable in allowing us to cut through
that and actually understand them from the people who have been directly
affected.

We intend to present our interim findings to the Prime Minister, and leader of
the opposition in November and publish our final report in March - and it's
important that your voice is heard.

If you have a view on the motivation for a small minority of people to take part
in riots; why the riots happened in some areas and not others; what motivated
local people to come together to resist riots in their area or to clean up after
riots had taken place; or do you have a view on what could have been done
differently to prevent or manage the riots - we want to hear from you.

Please get in touch at riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk or on twitter,
@riotspanel.

You can write to us too at Riots Panel, 6th floor, Eland House, Bressenden
Place, SW1E 5DU.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BDP


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Reading the riots: Methodology: Body of evidence: 270 interviews, 1.3m words,
2.5m tweets: Intricate study drew on analysis of 1967 US riots

BYLINE: Paul Lewis and Tim Newburn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 852 words


Reading the Riots is the only research study into the causes and consequences of
the summer riots involving interviews with large numbers of people who actually
took part in the disorder. A project run jointly by the Guardian and the London
School of Economics (LSE), the aim was to produce evidence-based social research
that would help explain why the rioting spread across England.

The research was inspired by a study of the Detroit riots in 1967 involving a
collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and the University of
Michigan's Institute for Social Research. The Detroit project, which challenged
some of the assumptions about the cause of the unrest in the city, used
quantitative research techniques - multiple-choice questionnaires - to compare
populations that rioted with others that did not.

But it was decided that a qualitative framework - involving in-depth,
free-flowing interviews with rioters - would be the most appropriate method of
studying the summer disturbances in England.

The first phase of Reading the Riots was completed in three months using
confidential interviews with hundreds of people directly involved in the riots.
It also involved a separate analysis, by academics at Manchester University, of
a database of more than 2.5m riot-related tweets.

The second phase - to be completed early next year - will involve interviews
with police, court officials and judges and a series of community-based debates.

In September we advertised on the Guardian website for researchers with skills
in interviewing and good links with riot-affected communities. More than 450
people from across the country applied. A team of 30 was selected and trained
with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society
Foundations. They spent October interviewing people who had been involved in the
riots in six cities: London, Liverpool, Birmingham, Nottingham, Salford and
Manchester.

Each researcher was given a topic guide covering the major themes of their
interviews. They were asked to find out how people first heard about the riots,
how they became involved, how they communicated, what they did, why they thought
the riots stopped and how they felt about their actions now.

The questions were deliberately neutral and researchers were discouraged from
asking leading questions. Each interview tended to last at least 45 minutes and
allowed for an extended discussion between interviewer and respondent, providing
nuanced first-person accounts of people's experiences and perspectives.

Basic demographic data was collected about the interviewees, including where
they lived, their age and ethnicity, educational qualifications, previous
criminal history and whether they worked. They were also asked a series of
survey-style questions, on topics ranging from their thoughts on the riots to
their attitudes towards police.

We wrote to 1,000 people convicted during the riots and offered them the
opportunity to take part in the study. Researchers also visited their homes. But
primarily, local contacts were used to find people who were involved in the
riots but had not been arrested. After being promised anonymity, a surprising
number agreed to take part, often because they wanted their story to be heard.

Interviews were held in various locations, such as people's own homes, youth
clubs, cafes and fast-food restaurants. The Ministry of Justice gave Reading the
Riots access to prisons, enabling interviews with about 13 people convicted for
their involvement in the riots. But a large majority of the 270 people
interviewed for the project had not been arrested.

All interviews were recorded, transcribed and stored in a database. In total,
Reading the Riots collated more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters. Rigour in the analytical phase - mostly undertaken in November - was
vital.

Once all the data was collected, five research analysts recruited by the LSE
began the complex task of analysing the lengthy transcripts in search of themes.
The process began with an analyst reading a transcript to get an overview. After
several readings, each transcript was then coded so that particular themes could
be identified and evidenced.

A list of coding labels was produced - essentially themes and sub-themes
appearing in the interviews - and these were reviewed by the research team on a
regular basis. The links and relationships between dozens of themes and
sub-themes such as government injustice, riot motivation, police, community, and
the role of social media, were constantly updated, providing an ever more
detailed picture of why the riots happened.

The relationships between the themes were recorded and displayed on a thematic
map document, allowing the team to see the larger, overall picture as a cohesive
set of findings began to emerge.

The analysis that has gone into producing these Reading the Riots findings is a
first attempt; transcripts will be subject to more advanced analysis in the
weeks and months to come.

Captions:

The Ministry of Justice granted access for 13 interviews with people jailed for
their involvement in the riots

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Looking at London

LENGTH: 1162  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Aug. 17 -- On Saturday, Aug 6, 2011, a small crowd including family and
friends of Mark Duggan, an alleged drug dealer who was killed during a police
action, assembled outside a Tottenham police station in North London to request
justice for his family. The family left the place with a heavy heart when they
did not get any response from the police, but the tolerance of the crowd ended.
In consequence, police cars were set on fire as the initial target of the
locals' anger followed by robbery and rioting which flared up in other parts of
London. Prime Minister David Cameron apologised to the people about the handling
of the case by the police on Thursday. But that apology came too late for all
those small entrepreneurs who suffered damage and the scores of people who lost
everything when their homes went up in flames during the three days of deadly
violence that might have been avoided with a more rational approach. The
aftershock of the incident is immense.

All Londoners now are in a serious mood to know why things exploded out of
control into a high speed incident. What has gone wrong with the law and order
situation in an extremely safe city like London? What is really the reason
behind the frustration and senseless rioting by young people? This incident has
not only destroyed the peace and order of London, but also disturbed the rest of
the world which has been inspired by its progress, safety and prosperity.
Politicians, academics and social analysts are now busy trying to uncover the
cause and effect of the violent riots in London.

The history of riots in the UK is not a recent one. There have been many serious
riots during the last 20 years in different cities of the UK. Similar riots that
killed hundreds of people and damaged public and private property worth billions
of dollars have taken place in different parts of the world too. The Mumbai
riots of 1992-93, Gothenburg riots of 2001, Los Angeles riots of 1992, Jakarta
riots of 1998, Greek riots of 2008, Bangkok riots of 2010, Nairobi riots of
2008, Sydney riots of 2005, Bradford riots of 2001 and Xingjian riots of 2011
are among the most infamous riots of the last two decades.

There is a whole range of reasons for the riots that have taken place in
different metropolitan cities of the world. However, the top 10 explanations
given by experts and analysts are increasing joblessness among youths, welfare
dependence, degrading social harmony, rising gap between rich and poor, weak law
and order, racism, so-called "gangsta" and rap culture, consumerism, criminal
opportunism and misuse of technical social networking. These could also be the
underlying causes of youth involvement in crime in the growingly uneven urban
societies of the world today.

In the last decade, Nepal has also seen many violent riots in different cities
and towns. The deadliest riot took place in 2001 sparked by a rumour that
Bollywood superstar Hritik Roshan had defamed Nepal. Roshan denied it and
expressed sorrow for what happened. The riot completely paralysed Kathmandu with
strikes, looting and arson. Similar types of urban riots have occurred in
different parts of the country like Nepalgunj, Kapilvastu, Gaur, Birgunj,
Janakpur and Biratnagar in the last decade. They have not only resulted in a
breakdown in law and order but also harmed human rights and the harmonious
relationship between different communities who have been living together for
years.

Nepal is essentially a country of diverse cultures, ethnicities, languages and
religions, and has been so from its inception. However, there are millions of
people who believe that they have been deceived and betrayed by the ruling class
for years in the name of so-called "national integration and cultural harmony".
As the result of the popular People's Movement of 2005-06, the Comprehensive
Peace Accord (CPA) 2006 and the Interim Constitution of Nepal 2007 have ensured
the rights of all the people to identity, access, ownership, representation and
social inclusion in all sectors as per international principles. However,
practically speaking, promotion and protection of all the cultures, languages
and religions of different ethnic groups have not happened for the purpose of
national reintegration as per the agreed norms and values.

The ordinary people in this country having been living with lots of frustrations
and grievances for many years as their expectations are not being fulfilled. The
government and political parties are not effective in achieving the right
solution to the existing contradictions in society. Neither have they been able
to offer a constitution nor genuine peace to the people despite their repeated
promises during the last five years.

In addition, socio-economic problems like youth unemployment, a mounting gap
between the haves and have nots, corruption scandals, delays in providing
transitional justice to the victims of the armed conflict, impunity in human
rights violations and politicisation of crime are threatening to lead to a
crisis in our society today. If these issues do not find a viable solution
through a political dialogue and discourse, the same issues may trigger violence
and riots in the country's towns.

The youth in this country have contributed a lot to the founding of the Federal
Democratic Republic of Nepal through the peaceful People's Movement of 2006.
However, they seem very restless with the current scenario of the country's
politics, and there is a danger that they may make a wrong decision out of their
frustration at any time. Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal, seems to be close
to the boiling point due to the people's frustration, and this may explode into
rage at any time. Besides, there are also some groups who wish to take advantage
of such aggravations of the youth in order to fulfil their own vested interests.

Therefore, a favourable environment should be created to help support the young
people of this country for genuine transformation of our society. The political
parties should constructively engage the youth force. The police, schools,
colleges, the media, hospitals, traffic management and all others dealing with
sensitive issues of society must be cautious and responsible.

Law enforcement also should be sensible in order to protect human rights while
using reasonable force against law breakers. When violence and riots occur in
cities, the police alone cannot maintain law and order in society. Hence, it's
necessary to be alert and prepare ourselves in advance so as to prevent such
violent incidents from happening in our country. If we don't learn a lesson from
our own painful experiences of the past and incidents like the London riots, it
will be too late to scratch our heads to find a way out of such urban violence.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

Riot Policeman Calls for Dismantling of Riot Police

BYLINE: By Bae Ji-sook

LENGTH: 396 words


Staff Reporter

A riot policeman is calling for the abolishment of the riot police system after
refusing to return to the squad following a three-day leave period and
sheltering himself in a cathedral.

He said he was forced to crack down on protestors against American beef imports
and that he did not want to finish his mandatory military service in the riot
police.

In South Korea, one can be dispatched to an ordinary military camp or the riot
police among others on a random basis by the Office of Military Manpower
Administration after being drafted.

Lee Gil-jun, a 25 year-old riot policeman of six months, said Sunday that his
conscience had got to him. "Who thought we would really have to beat people and
be taught to attack them just because of who they are and who we are? It caused
me and my fellows great pain," he said.

He said that the candlelit rallies were peaceful but his organization kept
infusing the idea that they were near riots they had to keep under control.
"Whenever I was ordered to suppress the ralliers; when they jeered at me; or
when I felt horrible about having accepted the orders, I couldn't do anything,"
he said.

"What I have learned from the whole experience is that political or state power
can put one in an unwanted situation and that one should resist such forces," he
said.

He said he would continue his struggle for the abolishment.

Being a member of the riot police is said to be one of the most stressful
positions: according to Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency, the suicide rate among
riot police has always been higher than that of the military and others. Cases
of mental disease among riot police officers are also increasing.

Lee is not the only person to protest the riot police system. Earlier in June,
Lee Gye-deok, another riot policeman, requested a transfer to the military
claiming that police work was against his political beliefs and conscience.

Currently, a number of activists such as Prof. Han Hong-koo of SungKongHoe
University, Rep. Lee Jung-hee of the minor Democratic Labor Party, lawyer Lee
Deok-woo and others are supporting Lee.

"There should be no endless sleepless nights of anguish for us," Lee said.

The former Roh Moo-hyun administration had planned to abolish the riot police
system by 2012, but recently National Police Agency Commissioner General Eo
Cheong-soo said he opposed the plan due to a lack of budget.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Seven more charged in Ft. Collins riot

BYLINE: Monte Whaley The Denver Post

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-02

LENGTH: 291 words


Seven more people have been cited for their alleged involvement in the Aug. 22
melee in Old Town Fort Collins that caused $12,000 in property damage.

The number of suspects cited is at 14, Fort Collins police spokeswoman Rita
Davis said Monday.

None of the latest people cited are Colorado State University students, Davis
said. So far, the only CSU student facing charges for the riot is 21-year-old
Landon Eugene Eskew.

Police have upgraded the charges against Eskew, who was previously cited for
obstruction of a peace officer, a Class 2 misdemeanor. Police said Eskew has now
been cited for engaging in a riot and disobedience of public safety orders under
riot conditions. Both are Class 3 misdemeanors.

The seven cited Monday are:

Austin Allen Oakes, 23, Fort Collins, obstructing a police officer (Class 2
misdemeanor) and resisting arrest (Class 2 misdemeanor);

Corey M. Simpson, 21, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot (Class 3 misdemeanor) and
disobedience of public safety orders under riot conditions (Class 3
misdemeanor);

Jessica Marie Units, 24, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot, disobedience of
public safety orders under riot conditions and obstructing a police officer;

Ryan Richard Poole, 30, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot and disobedience of
public safety order under riot conditions;

Amanda Kay Brooksmith, 23, Fort Collins, engaging in a riot and disobedience of
public safety orders under riot conditions;

Dustin Ryan Larson, 24, Fort Collins, disobedience of public safety orders under
riot conditions;

Cole Richard Livingston, 20, Fort Collins, disorderly conduct (petty offense)
and resisting arrest (Class 2 misdemeanor).

Police are working to identify others in the riot, Davis said.

Monte Whaley: 720-929-0907 or mwhaley@denverpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Patterns of Anti-Muslim Violence

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Sept. 24 -- The anti-Muslim riots in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining areas
are already being compared to Gujarat 2002. As many as 50,000 people have been
officially reckoned to have become internal refugees. According to official
records, 85 people have died, but unofficial estimates put it at a much higher
figure.

Police and administrative laxity, and sometimes police's criminal collusion with
rioters, have brought on this sorry state of affairs. Above everything else the
murky dealings of Samajwadi Party leadership with the Sangh had a paralysing
influence on the state machinery and encouraged goondas to indulge in rape,
loot, arson and murder. Many Muslims have "disappeared", many of their young
women have been kidnapped and whisked away to places where they cannot easily be
found.

Like Gujarat, it was a well-planned operation. Police in several areas have been
seen to be hand in glove with rioters. These riots need a more comprehensive
case study. The following is an account of some of the facets of these riots.

By now the riot methodology has been perfected. Disinformation, rumour mongering
- the usual ammunition in every fascist armoury - are important components of
this machinery. They have always been used with lethal effect in anti-Muslim
riots all over India.

The post-Godhra riots began with a major news item in the two most important
Gujarati dailies. The prominently-displayed news said Muslims in Godhra had
raped two Hindu women and cut their breasts. This inflamed Hindu feelings beyond
control. Later it was found that no such event had taken place.

However, by the time the truth came out, it was too late and hundreds of Muslim
women had been raped and killed.

Several riots in UP in the past have been fuelled and aggravated by such false
reports in Hindi newspapers. One such riot spread quickly after a Hindi
newspaper wrote a story on the front page. The banner headline screamed: "Chaar
sau bachche ghar nahin lautey" (Four hundred [school] children did not return
home). The falsehood was known only after the damage was done.

Yet another vicious riot in Aligarh was aggravated by a false report in a Hindi
newspaper that said Hindus in AMU's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College hospital
had been poisoned by Muslim doctors.

In Muzaffarnagar, newspaper stories of a Hindu girl's "molestation and rape"
worked as petrol on fire. Subsequent investigations and reports by major
publications found that the reports were not true. By then many people were
killed and maimed, homes and shops burnt down, people in their thousands driven
out to seek shelter in refugee camps.

The role of a section of media turned out to be as vicious this time as in the
past.

The Muzaffanagar police complained that media had been reporting events that did
not take place. That had a devastating effect. So far, media has gone completely
untouched for its role in aggravating mass violence. This is a long record of
impunity. Nobody ever dragged them to court for their crimes against humanity.
Enough is enough. Victims must give a serious thought to legal action against
these offenders.

The Press Council of India is aware of these transgressions, but being a
toothless body all that they can do is after a proper investigation name and
shame the offenders. However, it does not work as the offenders are shameless.

The larger pattern of anti-Muslim riots is intact, but smaller changes have been
introduced into it to make such riots more deadly.

Throughout the 1950s, 60s and 70s the anti-Muslim riots began with somebody
pelting stones at Hindu processions. Once the stones were pelted systematic
attacks on Muslims began and riot apologist would invariably argue that the riot
was "started by Muslims", taking it for granted that those throwing stones were
Muslims.

On the other hand, Muslims knew well that it was the handiwork of agent
provocateurs hired by the riot organisers. The simple logic for Muslim innocence
was that they did not stand to gain from the riots.

"Muslim casts the first stone" theme has given way to "riots begin with Muslims
molesting and raping Hindu women". That was the alibi in Pratapgarh riots
earlier this year and Muzaffarnagar riots earlier this month. In both cases, the
media propagated this false news with devastating consequences for Muslims. In
both cases it later turned out that no molestation or rape had taken place.

Other measures of disinformation and provoking the majority community included
wide distribution of a video in which a mob was lynching someone. The mischief
makers said the video showed Muslims lynching Hindu youth in Muzaffarnagar,
while the fact was that it was an old video of violence in Afghanistan.

In some areas, young men were seen distributing pamphlets in "Muslim dress",
while in fact they were not Muslims. This was another way of provoking violence
and blaming it on Muslims.

For years we had witnessed riots erupting after the discovery of cows' heads and
other parts in temples. Miscreants had regularly used this tactic to provoke
riots. Over the years it has lost much of its effectiveness. That is why the new
narrative involves "Hindu naari ki izzat par hamla" (attack on the modesty of
Hindu woman). As it has worked well so far. We should expect more of it in days
ahead.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Lawyer slams Rahul Gandhi over riots remark

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 184 words


NEW DELHI: Reacting to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's comments that
there were differences between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots,
senior advocate H S Phoolka - who appears for the riot victims - said that Rahul
was right that there is a difference in the Gujarat riots and the 1984 riots but
his reasons are all wrong.

"The actual difference is that in case of the Gujarat riots, all those cases
which were closed by the police were re-opened and re-investigated by the SIT.
The Congress fully supported the formation of this SIT. In a shameful display of
double standards, when it comes to the 1984 riot cases, again most of the cases
were closed by police but the Congress is not supporting the demand of formation
of SIT," said Phoolka on Tuesday.

Saying that Rahul also refrained from tendering an apology for the 1984 riots,
Phoolka said that his statement was like salt on the wounds of the victims. "If
the guilty of 1984 riots had been punished, we wouldn't have seen the riots of
Mumbai in 1993 or the riot of Gujarat in 2002...," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Insurers seek claims legislation reform following UK riots

BYLINE: Jill Insleyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 426 words

ABSTRACT

More than half of the claims submitted by insurers to police authorities under
1886 Riot Damages Act have been declined

FULL TEXT

A year after the UK riots, insurers have called on the government to reform
legislation relating to claims for riot damage after more than half the claims
they submitted to police authorities were declined.

The Association of British Insurers, the trade association for insurance
companies, has revealed that insurers have settled 98% of household property
damage claims, and have either settled or made payment towards 93% of small
business claims and 99% of large commercial claims.

But more than half of the claims submitted by insurers to police authorities
under the Riot Damages Act of 1886 have been declined.

Those whose properties were damaged or looted during the riots were able to
claim compensation from their insurers who, under the Riot Damages Act, passed
on the claims to the local police authority. The act also meant that those who
did not have insurance could apply for compensation.

But the high number of declined claims has prompted the ABI to say the act needs
to be simplified and streamlined to make sure "it delivers for those who need it
most".

Aidan Kerr, head of property at the ABI, said: "The Riot Damages Act is crucial
in providing financial compensation to victims of riots who do not have property
insurance or are underinsured, but the current lack of a standard approach has
caused unacceptable delays and confusion."

The trade body is calling for the following changes to the act:

· A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot is needed so victims in
different geographical locations are not treated differently. In some areas,
claims were made under the act that were declined by police authorities as they
did not see them as constituting a riot.

· The claims process for local police authorities needs to be streamlined and
standardised.

· The ABI would also like to see the time period for notification of claims
under the Riot Damages Act extended from 14 to 90 days.

A Home Office spokesperson said: "While decisions over individual claims are
entirely a matter for police authorities, we have worked closely with affected
forces to ensure victims are fully compensated.

"Following the riots last summer the Home Office extended the application period
to submit claims from 14 to 42 days and simplified the application procedure.

"We are also in the process of reviewing the Riot Damages Act to ensure it
protects the most vulnerable and provides value for money for the taxpayer."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 17, 2004 Tuesday

Flames and fury: the mind of a mob

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: RACHEL MORRIS

SECTION: FEATURES-TYPE- FEATURE-COLUMN- OPINION / OP EDTABLE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 830 words


Oppressive heat, the cover of darkness and a tragic death. RACHEL MORRIS reports
on the elements that triggered the Redfern riot

THE experts all agree the conditions in Sydney on Sunday night were almost
textbook perfect for a riot.

When conditions, both natural and man-made, come together in a certain way, it
is often human instinct to respond with violence.

The conventional wisdom on mob rage is there is often one dramatic trigger, such
as a political assassination or an unpopular jury verdict, that becomes a focal
point for underlying tensions.

The first documented riot was the Nika revolt, which took place over the course
of a week in Constantinople (modern day Istanbul) in 532.

The riot began when supporters of different teams of chariot racers disagreed
violently -- 30,000 people died in the ensuing chaos.

Psychologists and criminologists believe landmark events are just one ingredient
in generating a riot.

Dr Joseph Forgas from NSW University's school of psychology said groups behaved
in ways they would not as individuals.

"People feel empowered in a group. The individual loses the usual constraints,"
he said.

Dr Kip Williams from Macquarie University's psychology department identified a
number of psychological factors that contribute to mass violence.

"When I say contribute, it first should be noted that, at the individual level,
there is usually anger and a perceived injustice," he said.

"That can lead to aggression. When there are others who are similarly angered,
people can [lose their] sense of self. All that is needed is one person to begin
the violence and others will follow."

Dr Williams said anything that contributed to heightened arousal or a loss of a
sense of self could contribute to this situation.

"Being in a large group is arousing; crowding is arousing; shouting/chanting is
arousing; seeing violence is arousing," he said.

Dr Williams said riots did not just happen -- the right time, right place and
right circumstances were needed. These included:

DARKNESS

Riots tend to occur under cover of darkness. This, according to Dr Forgas, is
because anonymity is a prerequisite for involvement.

HEAT

As temperatures soar, so do tempers -- studies of rioting all point to most
occurring in summer.

The 1967 race riots in Detroit reached flashpoint in the heat of a very long
summer; the LA riots in the wake of the Rodney King case occurred just before
summer.

"Heat increases arousal, however if it gets ferociously hot then people become
lethargic," Dr Williams said.

MORAL RIGHTEOUSNESS

There is usually one defining moment or event that turns individuals into a
rioting mob.

In the case of the LA riots, it was the acquittal of the white police officers
caught on film bashing black man Rodney King.

Thousands of people took part in mass law-breaking over four days, including
looting and setting fires.

A sense of moral righteousness allows the group to believe their reaction is
sanctioned.

"They feel they have a moral right or they feel their actions are morally
justified," Dr Forgas said.

RUMOURS

News of an event can spread quickly, particularly through a tight-knit
community.

In an elaborate and dangerous kind of Chinese Whispers game, the facts can be
quickly distorted.

This was the case with the riot at Newcastle's Star Hotel in 1979 when locals
unhappy with the closure of the live music venue overturned cars and waged a
battle with police.

While hundreds attended the actual closing night of the hotel, hundreds more
joined in as word of the riot spread.

ALCOHOL

"Anything that lowers the threshold of inhibitions can contribute," Dr Forgas
said.

That was the case during the "bikie riots" at Bathurst's Mount Panorama races on
Easter 1985.

Fuelled by alcohol, bikies waged a pitched battle using molotov cocktails with
more than 400 police over the course of the weekend, resulting in the then Wran
Labor Government introducing a new law of "riot and affray".

While many things can trigger a riot, stopping one is less simple.

"Police can make riots worse because people focus their efforts on them," Dr
Forgas said.

Dr Williams said social scientists had a lot of data on what started riots but
had dedicated very little attention to what stops one.

"We can only guess," he said.

"Fatigue is probably an important factor -- people get hungry or thirsty. Maybe
people finally just get bored with it."

Mix of racism, alcohol and anger

WATTS RIOTS, August 11, 1965: Six days of rioting that claimed the lives of 34
people. Started after a traffic accident

LOS ANGELES RIOTS, April 29, 1992: Riots following the acquittal of police over
the beating of black man Rodney King left 60 dead

STAR HOTEL RIOT, September 19, 1979:The closing of the popular Newcastle hotel
saw police cars overturned and burnt

BRIXTON RIOTS,  April 10, 1981: Police were trapped in the Brixton police
station during three days of riots

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday

G2: Arts: Riot on!: The Pussy Riot trial sparked global protest. Will it
mobilise artists, too? Laura Snapes meets music's angry young women

BYLINE: Laura Snapes

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1343 words


It's a Thursday night in Leeds and people are gathering outside the gay bar
Queens Court for a march in support of Russian punk collective Pussy Riot. Maria
Alyokhina, Yekaterina Samutsevich and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova are due to be
sentenced the following day, the culmination of their trial on charges of
"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred". (For performing their 40-second,
Putin-denouncing "punk prayer" in Moscow's Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in
February, they will each receive two years in jail.) In the meantime, this
solidarity march is one of many taking place around the world.

Behind a sandwich board, a man changes into a Wonder Woman suit; luminous
balaclavas are surreptitiously pulled on as a police video surveillance van
lingers in a side road. A woman whose face is covered by a green scarf cries:
"It's been so long since I've seen you masked up, darling!" to a
megaphone-brandishing woman with the words "moralising slut" written across her
chest (a reference to Russian deputy prime minister Dmitry Rogozin, who called
Madonna a moralising "slut" when she expressed support for Pussy Riot). "I know:
since the fucking 90s!" laughs her friend, who turns out to be march organiser
Mae Stephens.

There are less-seasoned protestors here, too, among them musicians who have been
inspired by the Pussy Riot case. When the march is over and has dispersed to the
pub, I ask Wakefield-born protest singer Louise Distras why the punk collective
resonate with her. "Pussy Riot have inspired me by showing how we absolutely
have to speak out against media portrayals of women as subordinates," she says,
"and how it's very important for female artists to represent other women." For
Distras, the Pussy Riot influence echoes the "riot grrrl" scene of the early
1990s, an underground feminist punk movement that originated in the US. Riot
grrrl's central message has been much debated, but can perhaps best be summed up
as a mission to engender communities of supportive, creative women. Certainly,
Pussy Riot's abrasive, energetic sound has much in common with that of the
original riot grrrls Huggy Bear and Bikini Kill - though Bikini Kill frontwoman
Kathleen Hanna recently cautioned against too literal a reboot of the term.
("Who wants to restart something that's 20 years old?" she told music website
Pitchfork. "This could be a part of a lot of people starting their own fucking
thing.")

The London feminist choir Gaggle are another group who have much in common with
Pussy Riot: both are shape-shifting collectives of clever women spreading
messages of protest and social awareness, often while wearing brightly coloured
capes. I asked Gaggle's founder, Deborah Coughlin, if she thought the trial had
started something new. "Riot grrrl still exists, but it's not the holy covenant
of feminist music," she said. "In fact if anything, I find it restrictive. It's
not fundamentally important that Pussy Riot are musicians, but it is important
that we learn from their ideas. They are a living illustration of what needs to
change in their country, because we can see them suffering for it."

Leah Pritchard, singer and guitarist in the Bristol band Empty Pools, has been
donating money from sales of her solo material to Pussy Riot's legal fund via
the website Bandcamp. (Many other musicians have been doing the same.) Over the
phone, Pritchard explains how Pussy Riot are redefining the idea of "honest"
artistic expression, something we take for granted in the west. She quotes from
Alyokhina's closing statement to the Moscow courtroom, which in turn quoted from
the Russian dissident Vladimir Bukovsky: "How unfortunate is the country where
simple honesty is understood, in the best case, as heroism. And in the worst
case as a mental disorder." It shows how little has changed in Russia since the
early 1970s, when Bukovsky wrote this.

In Australia, the underground music umbrella My Sydney Riot (named before the
Russians became famous) have put together a successful fund-raising compilation
in aid of Pussy Riot. Founder Ray Lalota says he started My Sydney Riot out of
frustration with an oligarchic music industry. "Triple J is an Australian,
government-funded, national radio station which gives exposure to a few lucky
bands," he tells me. "They dictate how the industry at large works here.
Festival bookers pick bands that are getting national airplay, meaning a lot of
independent bands can't participate, creating a massive gap in the quality of
music heard here. To not be allowed to express your art is heartbreaking - but
in Pussy Riot's case, they are fighting for life itself. (Since the case began)
I've seen new faces at shows and speaking out - we're all discovering the
cultural similarities between Australians and Russians."

As with any potent symbol of rebellion, there is a risk that the industry will
co-opt Pussy Riot's message in order to make a buck. (There will be a lot of
mass-produced posters of the jailed three lining student walls this autumn.)
Neil Hanson, frontman of Leeds punk band Kleine Schweine, tells me he is worried
that their energy and image will be appropriated. "There's always the fear that
the knock-on effect could be loads of new bands who think that wearing masks and
shouting 'Fuck the system' is a route to fame. I'm pretty sure major labels are
already auditioning for their own Pussy Riot-style money-making band."

Pussy Riot's global profile is, of course, an A&R representative's dream.
Bloomberg's Business Week website recently ran a depressing article entitled
"What would a music label pay to sign Pussy Riot?" But it's unlikely Alyokhina,
Samutsevich and Tolokonnikova will be signing on any dotted label lines come
their eventual release. Will their trial kickstart a Russian punk movement? This
seems unlikely. Music journalist Alex Hoban, who has reported from Russia and
North Korea for Vice magazine, sees no signs of copycat behaviour. "The Russian
'alternative' (scene) is marked, sadly, by its complete apathy towards anything
other than looking cool. That sounds like a generalisation, but really it's
quite shocking. The mainstream right are so vocal and overbearing - after the
surge of enthusiasm during the Putin protests earlier in the year, things have
quietened down." He is echoed by Brooklyn psychedelic band (and sisters) Prince
Rama, who recently played Moscow; they tell me the conversation there was less
about Pussy Riot, more about "Ariel Pink and McDonald's".

The music critic Everett True sees in Pussy Riot an opportunity to challenge the
male-centric music industry. Emailing from his home in Australia, he tells me:
"It's no coincidence that it's taken women to effect any major change within the
poisoned citadel that is rock'n'roll in 2012. Men are such a devalued currency,
as Putin and his humourless, protectionist cronies and apologists prove." He has
a point: Pussy Riot have made feminism a vital part of the musical conversation
in a year that saw the NME pan Gaggle's debut album on the grounds that its
members were likely to be open about their menstrual cycles and own books by
Germaine Greer.

Back in Leeds, Distras is unequivocal when I ask her whether the Pussy Riot
effect could rid the music industry of the prejudice she regularly encounters,
even among the supposedly inclusive political set. (At Blackpool's Rebellion
punk festival this August, she says, male performers asked if burlesque dancing
was part of her act.) "This is a really good opportunity for people to blow
sexism in music and beyond wide open," she says. "A lot of people think Pussy
Riot is a women's issue. Pussy Riot is the little girl who goes to school and
gets told she's a worthless dyke because she's more interested in books than
boys. Pussy Riot is the little boy who goes to school and gets told to man up
when he expresses his emotions. I definitely don't think this is the end of
everything. I think it's only the beginning."

Captions:

Left and below: the Leeds march in support of Pussy Riot, including protest
singer Louise Distras (far left)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

City must strive to live up to Lincoln's vision

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 624 words


YOU'D BE hard pressed to find a city in America that has a more tortured
relationship with an event in its past than Springfield has with the Springfield
Race Riot of 1908.

Largely ignored in its immediate aftermath - or minimized as being not
race-related at all - the August 1908 riot in recent decades generally has
served as a polarizing topic of conversation. On one side are many whites who
feel any discussion of the riot is an implicit attempt to link them to the
racist attitudes that fueled it. On the other side are those who believe
Springfield's inability to properly recognize the riot is indicative of a
lingering, but more subtle, form of racism in the city.

THE UNDERCURRENT to all of this, however, is the tragic irony that will forever
haunt the Springfield Race Riot and make it unique from other, similar mob
actions that happened across the country: It happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln. It happened only blocks from where, almost exactly 50 years earlier,
Lincoln had delivered his House Divided Speech - a rallying cry that made
abolition a central plank in the Republican Party platform. It happened 46 years
after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation.

And it happened six months before Springfield celebrated the centenary of its
favorite son - with a white-only ceremony.

TODAY The State Journal-Register takes an extensive look at the Springfield Race
Riot and its aftermath. The special section is a prelude to the actual
anniversary of the riot on Aug. 14 and 15, and initiates further SJ-R coverage
of the riot's legacy and themes with which Springfield, historically, has
struggled.

This grim anniversary is not cause to put the race riot permanently behind us.
Nor should it be cause for inflicting or accepting guilt for something no one
now alive participated in.

Should Springfield, because it was Lincoln's hometown, be more culpable than the
many other towns that had race riots in the early 20th century? Probably not. It
is true that there was tremendous hypocrisy in celebrating Lincoln's 100th
birthday with a segregated gala six months after the riot. And for Springfield
to claim pride as Lincoln's hometown while denying opportunity to its
African-American population certainly mocked Lincoln's vision.

YET SPRINGFIELD was, at heart, a typical American city in a racially divided
America. It was one of many cities that experienced race riots, many far more
deadly than Springfield's.

The weeks ahead and the 100th anniversary in August present an opportunity to
examine the race riot as an example of how the issue of race has so vexed
America throughout its history, and how the ideals of Lincoln clashed with
post-Civil War reality. Lincoln was an enlightened resident of Springfield who
gave slaves freedom. But the race riot is evidence that, even 40-plus years
after emancipation, America collectively was not ready to grant that freedom.

WE HOPE dialogue about the race riot will stimulate dialogue about race
relations today. Though the Civil Rights movement broke America from
state-sanctioned racism, and while it appears likely we will have an
African-American presidential candidate on the ballot in November, race
continues to be the most divisive force in this country.

Next February, we will celebrate the 200th birthday of Abraham Lincoln. For much
of 2009, the attention of the world will turn to Springfield and its favorite
son. If we are to be worthy of celebrating Lincoln the man, we also must embrace
and celebrate his philosophy. That, we believe, can only happen with a candid
and thorough examination and remembrance of the event that - on the very streets
he once walked - so tragically distorted Lincoln's vision of a nation in which
all races were free.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

First riot defendant gets 'slap on the wrist';
Police chief says 18-year-old's treatment after guilty plea proves point that
police cannot rush cases to court

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


An 18-year-old who was arrested by Surrey RCMP and pleaded guilty to possession
of stolen property linked to the Stanley Cup riot has received an absolute
discharge, and Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu says the "slap on the wrist"
underscores why police can't rush cases to court.

Karanvir Singh Saran pleaded guilty in Surrey Provincial Court on Nov. 2. RCMP
say the young man was taken into custody after a teacher heard him brag about
being in possession of stolen swimsuits.

However, Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said the Crown concluded that the
evidence wasn't sufficient to conclude that he stole the property. The absolute
discharge means Mr. Saran will have no criminal record related to the case.

Mr. Saran's case was led by the Mounties and is not linked to 60 riot files
Vancouver police forwarded to the Crown on Oct. 31. The Crown has not approved
charges in any of those cases, meaning the first guilty plea connected to the
June 15 riot that caused millions of dollars in damage came as a result of an
RCMP investigation.

"This was a fog-of-war thing, just an inadvertent type of thing," Chief Chu said
during a roundtable with The Globe and Mail. "The possession of stolen property
occurred in Surrey, because you had stolen property in Surrey. Ideally, what
they should have done is tied it into a broader investigation, but this one
slipped through the cracks."

The Vancouver Police Department has been widely criticized for the pace of its
investigation of the riot, in which more than 100 people were injured. Nearly
five months later, no one has been charged.

But Chief Chu said the absolute discharge demonstrates why Vancouver police made
the decision to take their time.

"This thing in Surrey actually proves our point," he said. "You rush a case, you
get a slap on the wrist."

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson called the sentence "disappointing" and
expressed hope the courts would hold those linked to the riot accountable.

The mayor also weighed in on a Globe and Mail story in which a Vancouver police
investigator said the city's decision to allow throngs of people to congregate
and drink downtown during the Stanley Cup playoffs was a "recipe for disaster."
He called the allegations "off base."

Corporal Drew Grainger, a Surrey RCMP spokesman, said Mr. Saran was arrested the
day after the riot. Charges against him were approved on July 11.

He said the swimsuits Mr. Saran had still bore tags from the downtown Vancouver
store from which they were stolen.

"How he came into contact with them has never really been determined," the RCMP
spokesman said. Mr. Saran was not charged with theft or participating in a riot.

Cpl. Grainger said the case was "unusual" because people don't generally brag
about their crimes in public. He said that as far as he's aware, the case is the
only one linked to the riot that was forwarded to the Crown by Surrey RCMP.

"This was a one-off incident," he said, adding the Vancouver police's riot team
wasn't in place when Surrey RCMP made the arrest.

Attorney-General Shirley Bond said she was concerned that the case was handled
outside of the process set up for investigating and prosecuting riot-related
cases.

"We want all riot-related offences to be handled by the integrated riot
investigation team and our riot prosecution team," she said. "I certainly have
made it clear that any future files will be brought to the attention of the riot
prosecution team."

With a report from Justine Hunter

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Reality check: were estates to blame for the riots?

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 763 words

ABSTRACT

Iain Duncan Smith today suggests that "ghettos" of poor quality social housing,
ignored by the middle classes, were a factor in this summer's riots. In a new
series fact-checking the biggest stories of the day Polly Curtis, with your
help, asks whether estates contributed to the violence that broke out in
England's cities. Email polly.curtis@guardian.co.uk or contact her on Twitter
@pollycurtis

FULL TEXT

10.17am: The work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith today suggests that
the middle classes have ignored the plight of life of grim council estates for
too long, describing this summer's riots as the moment when "the inner city
finally came to call". For the first time he raises the issue of the problems of
English council estates, where 4m people live, as a factor in the disturbances.

, he talks about the "dysfunctional" communities he has visited "many of which
had become fertile grounds for drug dealers, gang recruiters and violent
moneylenders". He writes:

"For years now, too many people have remained unaware of the true nature of life
on some of our estates. This was because we had ghettoised many of these
problems, keeping them out of sight of the middle-class majority. But last month
the inner city finally came to call, and the country was shocked by what it
saw."

The question

Were estates to blame for the riots?

I'm going to gather the quantitative data on the geography of the rioting that's
so far available, draw on the considerable expertise within the Guardian
building and academic research on previous riots to address this question. Can
you help? Do get in touch with any evidence or lines of inquiry you think we
should be looking at and I'll blog information today as I come to it and we'll
attempt an answer to this question together by the end of the day.

The analysis

To start off I've just been speaking with Paul Lewis, the Guardian's
investigations editor who is leading our coverage of the riots, including our
unique collaboration with academics, , which is investigating the causes. He
points me towards a piece of analysis that the Guardian's  team carried out in
the weeks after the riots. The Datablog mapped the riots, and the addresses of
the suspects gathered from magistrates courts, to test David Cameron's assertion
at the time that poverty played no role in the violence.

Paul says that the conclusion of this is that there were different geographical
patterns to the riots in different areas of the country. In London riots took
place close to where rioters live; in other areas such as Manchester people left
their communities and went to a shopping mall or town centre. But deprivation
was certainly a unifying factor.

Alex Singleton at Liverpool University who analysed the data with the datablog
team  that there was a strong link between the rioting and rioters and
deprivation. He concluded:

These limited data and analysis seem to suggest that those people who have been
appearing on riot-related charges (typically young males) live in some of the
most deprived areas of our largest cities, and in neighbourhoods where the
conditions are getting worse rather than better. Rioting is deplorable, however,
if events such as this are to be mitigated in the future, the prevailing
conditions and constraints effecting people living in areas must form part of
the discussion. A "broken society" happens somewhere, and geography matters.

In terms of links to individual estates there was intensive coverage of the
riots in Hackney, where the worst violence was around the Pembury Estate. My
colleague Esther Addley wrote about it in the immediate days after the riots.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2011/aug/09/london-riots-kids-parents-police.

The Times  (£) the estate in a piece today reflecting on the riots and Duncan
Smith's claim.

The Times reports that the average income for family on the Pembury Estate is
under £9,000 while in neighbouring mortgaged properties it is more than £46,000
describing a "huge expanse" of overcrowded social housing.

, MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, tells the Times:

There used to be a mixture of unemployed people, single mums, and families where
the head of the family was in employment. Now some estates are made up of only
unemployed people. The thing about living on a council estate is that there is
not much hope.

I'll update with more evidence through the day as we get to it but can you help?
Get in touch below the line, email  or contact me on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday

Russian TV shows prison riot drill of penal service special units

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of "Novosti Dnya" news report by Russian Zvezda TV, Defence Ministry
controlled, promotes patriotic values, on 6 November

[Presenter] An anti-riot drill has been held in a Russian penal colony. Riot
police were forced to use batons to restore order among prisoners. There were no
casualties, and [the police officers] got top grades. Lidiya Kuzminova reports
on an exercise of Ministry of Justice special units in Tver Region.

[Voice from loudspeaker] Prisoners, you are commanded to cease and desist their
illegal act. You are being warned about criminal liability and [the possibility
of] use of special equipment and physical force.

[Correspondent] Efforts were made at first to settle the conflict in a peaceful
way. However, negotiations ended in nothing, the riot was gathering strength.
The role of inmates was brilliantly played by officers of the Penal Service
directorate. They were throwing potatoes at riot police. The tubers had been
brought to the exercise to prevent injuries among the participants: in a real
riot, rocks are used.

[Aleksandr Zverev, head of the emergencies group of the Federal Penal Service
Directorate] The inmates quarrelled over cards and started a fight. After that
the crime bosses instigated other convicts [to take part]. This is a kind of
situation that can develop anytime. Our task is to timely prevent such emergency
situations.

[Correspondent] The negotiations failed. A water cannon had to be used to
disperse the rally. The police officers are in full riot gear, complete with
rubber batons and shields - everything is like in real life. The ringleaders of
the riot were quickly detained. However, some of them managed to hide in one of
the buildings, which was set on fire by the rioting crowd. That was the exercise
scenario. Experience shows that fires are not rare during riots.

Police contained the building where the inmates were hiding. An assault began.
It took the Rys [Lynx] riot police detachment only several minutes to detain the
remaining ringleaders. That was a successful end of the main phase of the riot.

Over 1,000 officers of the Penal Service Directorate for Tver Region took part
in the operations. Such exercises are regularly held here, but this one was as
close to reality as possible. Incidentally, this was a special drill for the Rys
detachment, which had just returned from Leningrad Region where they took part
in suppressing a real [prison] riot.

[Video shows riot police containing simulated riot]

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1000 gmt 6 Nov 07

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

Reading the Riots: we need police officers' stories

BYLINE: Tim Newburnguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 338 words

ABSTRACT

Researchers investigating last summer's riots have already spoken to more than
120 officers, but we want to hear from more

FULL TEXT

The second phase of the Reading the Riots project, examining how the police and
courts battled to contain the worst bout of civil unrest in a generation, is
well under way.

To date, researchers have interviewed more than 120 police officers from the
Met, West Midlands, Greater Manchester and Merseyside, as well as a few forces
that provided mutual aid during the disturbances. The interviews have been with
officers at all levels, from PC to chief constable.

In London, the city most seriously affected by the riots, many of the interviews
have been with senior officers, providing a fascinating insight into the command
level issues raised during the riots. Now we want to hear from more officers who
were on the frontline in the capital, both during the disturbances and in the
aftermath (via Operation Kirkin).

The interviews will be conducted by a researcher face-to-face, and will last
approximately one hour. Crucially, they will be anonymous and confidential and
have been discussed and approved with the Metropolitan police service.

The aim of the project is to give officers the chance to tell their stories in
their own words on such issues as:

· How the riots appeared to develop and spread

· The impact of different policing tactics on rioting/looting

· Officers' impressions of why the riots occurred where and when they did

· What brought the riots to an end

· Officers' assessments of their training and their preparedness for policing
major civil disturbances

· The impact of the experience of policing the riots on officers themselves

· What tactics/strategies have been used to bring offenders to justice in the
aftermath

Any officer who is willing to be interviewed please contact Catriona McGillivray
at catriona.mcgillivray@guardian.co.uk or call on 0203 3532763.

If you have any queries or concerns about the research please contact Prof Tim
Newburn via email at t.newburn@lse.ac.uk.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            October 19, 2014 Sunday

Keene Pumpkin Festival fits trend: students rioting for no good reason;
Student riots used to be about grievances. Now, they're increasingly happening
just because parties get out of hand. That's what appeared to happen at the
Keene Pumpkin Festival Saturday.

BYLINE: Mark Sappenfield Staff writer

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 532 words


Of all the events likely to set off a fully fledged student riot of car tipping,
broken signs, and open street fires, the Pumpkin Festival in Keene, N.H., would
probably not top many lists.

Yet that is precisely what happened Saturday night as an event famous for
setting a world record last year with 30,581 lit jack-o'lanterns turned into a
wild scene that ended in pepper spray, tear gas, and dozens of arrests.

The riot comes as some experts note a change in student riots. Long past are the
days when they were mostly protests or expressions of student discontent. In
recent years, it seems, many students just see them as a fun part of the college
experience.

"It's become part of - for some people - part of the male role of being a
college student," Jerry Lewis, an emeritus professor of sociology at Kent State
University in Ohio, told USA Today. "Sometime during your [college] experiences
you are supposed to ... participate in a riot."

Reports suggest that the riot began when a large party got out of hand. Keene
State University students, as well as visitors from other colleges, are thought
to have started the riot. Police managed to regain control around 1:30 a.m.

The riot fits with recent trends on college campuses, where riots have become
more spontaneous and commonplace. For example, colleges involved in this
spring's Final Four basketball tournament saw riots, as have a number of other
campuses. Some of the riots are sports-related, but many - like the ones in
Keene Saturday - appear to have no apparent cause other than students' bad
behavior spiraling out of control.

Alcohol has been cited as a catalyst for student riots, but some experts
question whether that isn't merely an excuse for students to behave badly.

"The way I think about drinking, it gives people permission to do what they
wanted to do anyway," Professor Lewis said.

That appeared to be the motivation for some Saturday.

"It's just like a rush. You're revolting from the cops," Steven French, 18, who
was visiting from Haverhill, Mass., told the Keene Sentinel. "It's a blast to do
things that you're not supposed to do."

In 2005, a year after a week-long celebration at Iowa State University turned
into a riot, sociology professor David Schweingruber surveyed one of his
classes. The results were that 24 percent of the men and 11 percent of the women
said they'd like to participate in a riot during college. Some 49 percent of men
and 28 percent of women said they'd like to watch a riot during college.

He noted that his survey was a small sample size and not scientific, but he also
noted that the number of nonprotest campus riots in 1985 was fewer than five. By
2002, it was up to 30.

"If a lot of people want to riot, there's not a lot we can do to stop it,"
Professor Schweingruber told the Iowa State Daily.

For some, the culture even appears to be becoming a badge of pride. Earlier this
year, Barstool Sports, a blog for college men, boasted: "No campus is safe. No
ice cream truck is safe. It's total mayhem in our country's colleges. I dare
somebody to have a normal old-fashioned party without it turning into a
full-scale riot with rubber bullets and pepper spray balls flying. You can't."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Modi blogs again: Always opposed 2002 riots

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 259  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought to emphasise in his blog
that he had opposed the 2002 Gujarat riots and continues to do so. Modi also
sought to underline that "there cannot be different yardsticks to judge riots"
that have taken place in the country at various points of time.

"The Congress has asked Amitabh Bachchanji whether he opposes the Gujarat riots
or not. Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots and still does. Every
citizen must oppose riots. Whether it is the 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots
, 1985 Gujarat riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots.
There cannot be different standards to judge riots," Modi wrote.

The Gujarat CM also reproduced a paragraph from one of his speeches made on the
floor of the Assembly in March 2002 in the post. "Friends, after the Gujarat
2002 riots I had made a statement in Vidhan Sabha in March 2002 and I wish to
quote one para as sufficient evidence for those who are spreading lies day and
night: 'Are we not supposed to soul-search ourselves? Whether it is the Godhra
incident or post-Godhra, it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society.
These riots are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head
high. Then why is there a difference of opinion?' "

Modi added that his "painful appeal" had not been heard by those "who are bent
upon defaming Gujarat". "Any unsubstantiated criticism of the land of Gandhi,
Sardar can never be tolerated. Gujarat will give a befitting reply again and
again and again come what may," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday

Historian discusses black resistance

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 656 words


Much of the 1908 Springfield race riot story still remains untold, including how
many of the city's black residents repelled white rioters by organizing armed
fronts, according to a historian who spoke at a downtown history symposium
Saturday.

"Generally, in a lot of race-riot stories, when resistance is present,
oftentimes black resistance is viewed as black retaliation," said Anthony
Landis, during a presentation he gave in the auditorium of the Howlett Building
as part of the Illinois Historical Society's symposium on "The African-American
Experience in Illinois."

It may have been easier for the white establishment to resume the status quo
after a race riot because it believed black residents had retaliated and sought
revenge against their attackers.

But black residents were merely defending themselves, Landis said. Justice still
needed to be served.

Typically, said Landis, a 1990 Southeast High School graduate who is now an
assistant director for the Ohio Board of Regents, race-riot scholarship examines
the causes and participants of race riots.

But Landis, who contributed a 5,000-word essay on the riot for the 2006
"Encyclopedia of American Race Riots," said he is trying to plot new ground by
focusing on targets of race riots.

"Who were these black people who wanted to defend their lives, their property?
What kind of lives did they lead within the city? What were their values? Who
was this (black) community?" Landis said.

Summing up his master's thesis about African-American organized resistance
during the 1908 Springfield riot, Landis described a black community in
Springfield that relied on several layers of social networking, lessons learned
from other riots that had recently taken place and even military tactics some of
Springfield's black veterans had mastered years earlier.

Such evidence also led Landis to challenge a popular perception that thousands
of blacks fled Springfield during the riots (there only were about 2,900 to
begin with). Landis also questions the performance of the state militia called
to Springfield by Gov. Charles Deneen.

When the rioting broke out, after a mob's attempt to lynch two black inmates was
thwarted, many black residents organized armed neighborhood patrols and placed
sharp-shooting squads in strategic places, according to oral history and
newspaper accounts.

As a result of such actions, many neighborhoods were kept safe, Landis said.

Still, by the end of the two-day riot that August, more than 40 black homes and
businesses were destroyed, two black men were lynched and several white rioters
had been killed. Nationwide reaction to the event inspired the formation of the
NAACP.

After the riot, many in the black community had high expectations that the
justice system would punish the rioters.

The 108 indictments issued were encouraging, as were passionate claims by many
white business leaders who pledged their full cooperation on the witness stand.

In the end, though, only one person was convicted - of petty larceny. Many of
those who offered their testimony suddenly couldn't remember names and faces.

The city was beginning to sweep the riot under the rug. By the following year,
blacks were banned from the elaborate Abraham Lincoln banquet in 1909 that
celebrated Lincoln's 100th birthday.

"I grew up here in Springfield. I never even heard of the riot," Landis said. "I
think one time - I'm probably about 8 or 9 years old - my dad had mentioned to
me that he had heard that some black people had been lynched over at Douglas
Park during the riot. But that's all he really knew about it. When I did my
research I never found any evidence saying blacks were lynched over there in
that area."

"We don't want to lose that history," Landis said. "Good, bad or indifferent,
it's still our history. And we have to live with it. And we have to accept it.
But I think there's still a healing process that needs to go on in the midst of
that."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GO COMPARE SENTENCES...

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 235 words


THE public have backed judges for sending out a tough message with severe
sentences to a procession of rioters and greedy looters.

A poll for The Sun backed the crackdown and 59 per cent said penalties should be
even tougher.

Guidelines to courts insist crimes carried out during anarchy on the streets
must be treated more harshly than if they were committed in isolation. Here we
compare sentences with other crimes.

0-5 MONTHS

RIOTS

PAUL Ruane, 47, got eight weeks for handling goods stolen in the Manchester
riots.

NON-RIOTS

SUPERSTAR George Michael, 48, got the same term last year for crashing his car
while on cannabis.

5-12 MONTHS

RIOTS

MODEL Shanola Smith, 22, got six months for having gum stolen during the Croydon
riots.

NON-RIOTS

KARL Gill, 45, got the same for dishonestly claiming £11,000 of his dead mum's
NHS pension.

1-2 YEARS

RIOTS

MICHAEL Gillespie-Doyle, 18, received two years for trying to steal cigs from a
store in Manchester.

NON-RIOTS

PAEDOPHILE Michael Saunders, 22, got the same for grooming a 14-yearold girl on
the web.

4 YEARS

RIOTS

BLOGGER Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, got four years for trying to incite a riot
in Northwich, Cheshire.

NON-RIOTS

HEROIN dealer Rajinder Dutt, 32, got the same jail for his part in a £10million
operation.

Do you agree that sentences for offences committed during the riots compared to
offences before should be: 59% Harsher 33% The Same 8% 8 Don't know 0% Softer 0%
Softer

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Riots continue to singe volatile west UP

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 357 words


Agra: For the fourth straight year, volatile western Uttar Pradesh region has
reported maximum cases of riots in the state, shows the NCRB data. Data collated
from seven major cities in the state shows that Agra once again had the highest
instances of riots in the state in 2015, with state capital Lucknow coming
second.

Agra reported 219 cases of riots in 2015, with 12.5 affected people per lakh of
population. This was, however, the lowest in the last three years; 2012 had seen
227 such cases, 2013 the same number and 2014 had witnessed 242.

Riots have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian,
agrarian, student, caste, communal and "others".

In Agra, a total of 51 people became victims of clashes over land property
dispute followed by 47 in student violence; 14 people were victims of communal
riots and 12 of caste conflicts between SCs/STs and non-SCs/STs.

There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra and Lucknow,
which came in second place. Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of
3.9 affected.

Meerut, which reported the second highest number of riots last year, stood third
in the state with 112 cases at a rate of 7.9 per lakh affected. The industrial
capital of UP, Kanpur, was fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower
rate of 3.3 affected.

Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29
cases of riots had the lowest number among the seven major cities. The rate in
Varanasi is 2 affected per lakh of population; Ghaziabad reported 30 instances
of riots in 2015.

Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813 cases and
stood third after Bihar at 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.

Bihar's capital Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725,
with a rate of 35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai
with 396 instances and a rate of 2.2.

Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots cases, in
which 220 people were victims.

Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no
cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Riots continue to singe volatile west UP

SECTION: AGRA

LENGTH: 357 words


Agra: For the fourth straight year, volatile western Uttar Pradesh region has
reported maximum cases of riots in the state, shows the NCRB data. Data collated
from seven major cities in the state shows that Agra once again had the highest
instances of riots in the state in 2015, with state capital Lucknow coming
second.

Agra reported 219 cases of riots in 2015, with 12.5 affected people per lakh of
population. This was, however, the lowest in the last three years; 2012 had seen
227 such cases, 2013 the same number and 2014 had witnessed 242.

Riots have been classified under several sub-categories such as sectarian,
agrarian, student, caste, communal and "others".

In Agra, a total of 51 people became victims of clashes over land property
dispute followed by 47 in student violence; 14 people were victims of communal
riots and 12 of caste conflicts between SCs/STs and non-SCs/STs.

There was a considerable gap in the number of cases between Agra and Lucknow,
which came in second place. Lucknow saw 113 cases of riots in 2015, at a rate of
3.9 affected.

Meerut, which reported the second highest number of riots last year, stood third
in the state with 112 cases at a rate of 7.9 per lakh affected. The industrial
capital of UP, Kanpur, was fourth with 96 cases of riots, but at a much lower
rate of 3.3 affected.

Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with 29
cases of riots had the lowest number among the seven major cities. The rate in
Varanasi is 2 affected per lakh of population; Ghaziabad reported 30 instances
of riots in 2015.

Out of the total 65,255 riots in country, Uttar Pradesh saw 6,813 cases and
stood third after Bihar at 13,311 and Maharashtra 8, 336.

Bihar's capital Patna had the highest instances of riots in the country at 725,
with a rate of 35.4 affected people per lakh of population, followed by Mumbai
with 396 instances and a rate of 2.2.

Shockingly, Faridabad reported highest 201 number of communal riots cases, in
which 220 people were victims.

Interestingly, Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab and Kota in Rajasthan had no
cases of riots in 2014.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Comment: Most people prefer a better bargaining tool than havoc: From the
Gloucestershire cheese riots on, wrongly ascribing motives to rioters only
intensifies their sense of impotence

BYLINE: Zoe Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 923 words


The anniversary of last year's riots has been a muted affair, both overshadowed
and made a little incomprehensible by the unforced togetherness of the Olympics.
To look now at the nation's youth - striving for excellence in every task,
whether it's jumping over an impossible beam or giving you directions to the
tube - you wouldn't believe the way they were characterised last August, feral
and unruly (like all crowds) but with a new twist of avarice.

In 2011, all they were interested in was trainers; in 2012, all they're
interested in is running. And part of this, of course, is that there's no
texture in a mainstream narrative: the dominant one wins. Equally, there's not
much nuance of mood in a crowd, it's either exceedingly happy or exceedingly
angry. This national turnaround is unsurprising.

I suppose it's somewhat surprising that the debate never moved on - it started
off with one camp saying this is what happens when inequality is high, and the
other saying it was "pure criminality", and that is roughly where it's remained.
I went to a meeting recently about it, in which a Conservative whom I believe
I'm not supposed to name was grinding on about poor parenting. I said that it
was hard to be a very hands-on parent when you had two jobs, and it was hard to
persuade your kids to stay at home if it was cramped or squalid; any
conversation about parenting and its place in the riots had to include a
discussion about wages and one about rent. "I don't want this to get too
ideological," he said. "No," said the chair, "we're trying to move away from old
arguments." Yeah. Because the thing with poverty is that it's old, ergo
monumentally tedious, not just to live with, also to talk about.

There's still too much heat in the debate, but if we maintain these opposing
positions, by the time we've cooled down we'll be more immovable than ever (I
was working up a blacksmithing metaphor, but it's way too complicated). I
suggest a longer view. This year isn't just the first anniversary of last year's
riots, it's also the 200th anniversary of the Luddite machine-wrecking riot.
Eric Hobsbawm called it "collective bargaining by riot", which was precisely
correct of people who deliberately broke looms, but is broadly correct of all
riots. How do large groups of people, with no power other than their numbers,
assert themselves? By reminding the world of how much damage they could do.

Riots and the responses to them observe some broad rules. People who aren't food
rioters are written off as spoilt and indolent, the logic being that if you will
destroy the fabric of society when you're not even hungry, you must have reached
a state of depravity that only excess can create (here, the Luddites and last
year's rioters have something beyond a birthday in common - they were both
widely described as people who were made greedy by already having too much).

Where it is a food riot, there's always an attempt to dismiss it with ad hominem
attacks on an unnamed hardcore, whether in Yemen in 2007 or in the
Gloucestershire cheese riots of 1766 - a local paper reported on that second
event: "(In the area live) a great number of desolate, idle fellows, that
delight more in drinking than work: four of these sort of people being assembled
together at Pitchcomb feast, and there getting drunk, were the first who kindled
the flame of disturbance here; these incendiaries communicating their mad
resolutions to others." Most people aren't hungry, in other words - they are
just fermented by (curiously persuasive) workshy drunkards. It's a line of
attack I can easily imagine Iain Duncan Smith using.

History - as opposed to immediate chronicling - favours the political or
ideological riot over the food riot, which is irrational, since there can be no
more political statement than to protest your hunger, or your powerlessness.

More than that, history favours the riot that destroyed the status quo - so last
year's riots in Egypt and Tunisia were part of the Arab spring, while the food
riots in Bangladesh, Cameroon and Indonesia were so fast-forgotten that they
didn't get a name. All of that unrest sprang from the same cause: massive
increases in the cost of staples. As Christian Parenti wrote: "The initial
trouble was traceable, at least in part, to the price of that loaf of bread."
But not all of it was ascribed the same nobility.

Rightwing opinion always tries to bring the riots back to a question of moral
compass - why don't the young know right from wrong? How can we teach them right
from wrong? Yet there has never been any such thing as a riot that was entirely
noble, nor one that was comprised entirely of bad seeds; there are only riots
that became movements, and riots that achieved nothing, and could be written off
in retrospect. We're not quite at "retrospect" yet with 2011 - to write off a
riot prematurely merely intensifies the perception of impotence that it was
expressing in the first place.

More importantly, this question we're stalling on - do these rioters have a real
grievance, or are they just bad people? - is irrelevant. Generally, people
prefer it when they have a better bargaining tool than havoc. If enough people
feel that destruction is their only leverage, it doesn't really matter if
they're bad people, or their parents are useless. There are bad people and
useless parents at every price point. They will continue to destroy until they
perceive their leverage to be better - the question is what to do about that. We
can't hold an Olympics every year.

Twitter: @zoesqwilliams

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

'Day of Blood' author to speak on 1898 Wilmington race riot at museum Sunday

BYLINE: Rodger Mullen, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words


April 13--The 1898 Wilmington race riot lasted just a day, but its effects were
felt for decades.

"It began the Jim Crow South in North Carolina," said LeRae Umfleet, author of
"A Day of Blood: the 1898 Wilmington Race Riot." "The election of 1898 resulted
in a new legislature and the first Jim Crow legislation was passed in 1899."

Umfleet, who is chief of museum collections management at the state Department
of Cultural Resources, will speak about the Nov. 10, 1898, riot Sunday at 2 p.m.
at the Museum of the Cape Fear at Bradford and Arsenal avenues.

The program is being presented in connection with Anne Frank exhibits being
offered at the Arts Council and other area venues through April, said museum
administrator David Reid. The museum is also featuring an exhibit on the riot.

"They invited other agencies to think about events that could look at
intolerance and diversity and acceptance and things like that," Reid said. "Our
thought was to do something on the Wilmington race riot. It's a topic that
people don't seem to know much about."

Reid said he also was interested in the Fayetteville connections to the riots.
The Fayetteville Light Infantry was called out to help quell the violence and
The Fayetteville Observer and other newspapers covered the riot.

Also, Fayetteville resident Charles Chesnutt wrote a book, "The Marrow of
Tradition," about the riot.

Newspaper burned

The riot began when a crowd of white men burned a black-owned newspaper.
Wilmington was a black majority town at the time, but white supremacists had
recently seized power from the locally elected government.

In the violence that followed, many blacks were killed and the Brooklyn
neighborhood was destroyed. Thousands of blacks left Wilmington, turning it into
a white majority city.

"I usually try to explain how politics can evolve into murder," Umfleet said.
"The violence in Wilmington was a result of the rhetoric of the political
campaign."

Umfleet said as many as 60 people may have been killed in the riot, although the
exact number is not known.

The riot had an immediate effect beyond Wilmington, Umfleet said. After the 1898
elections, laws were passed that barred blacks from participating fully in
society.

"Blacks began to suffer economically because blacks were fired and whites were
hired," Umfleet said. "You didn't see African-Americans having a role in
politics until after the civil rights movement in the 20th century."

Umfleet said she will sign copies of her book after the talk, which is free. She
said she hopes the talk sheds light on an overlooked piece of history.

"The victims didn't have a voice to tell their side of the story," Umfleet said.
"It sort of gets jumped over in the survey of history."

Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at mullenr@fayobserver.com or
486-3561.

___ (c)2013 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130413-FY-Day-of-Blood-author-to-speak-on-1898-Wilmington-race-riot
-at-museum-Sunday-0413-20130413

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2013 The Fayetteville Observer


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           December 7, 2013 Saturday

No more Muzaffarnagars, please;
DNA Analysis

BYLINE: Priyanka Chaturvedi

LENGTH: 1028  words


In his book Riot after Riot, MJ Akbar sums up the reasons behind communal riots
in India. The latest riots witnessed in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh
is also best explained in his words: "Law and order have two enemies: the Full
Truth and the Complete Lie. When people realise the truth, they start
revolutions. When they are fed lies they begin meaningless riots. Lies are the
staple of every communal disturbance. They are spread by people who have a stake
in this stupid violence, who have something to gain out of impoverished Hindus
and Muslims fighting each other."

This spreading of lies has now taken a more vicious and sinister form. As seen
in Muzaffarnagar, fake videos can be spread by communal elements through smart
phones and various latest communication apps. This incitement was part of a
sinister plan on the part of one party, and its very ambitious prime ministerial
candidate, to polarise voters on communal lines. When the state government in UP
failed in its duty to ensure public order, the situation quickly went out of
hand.

While the damage caused by the riots was noticed, what has been since ignored is
the brutal aftermath which impacts thousands of lives. When people focus on the
political benefits of riots or look at riots only from the angle of them being a
tinderbox for further riots, they become oblivious to the immense tragedy of
human lives uprooted by such acts.

In this instance, the state authorities set up 41 relief camps to accommodate
43,000 people who fled their homes after the riots. Fourteen of these camps
function now - with no clue when they will be wound up. Despite getting
rehabilitation money, the people in these camps refuse to leave out of fear that
they will face the same situation once they return to their erstwhile homes. It
is a sad reflection on the total lack of confidence in the local administration
and the state government. More tragically, the state government is not making
any attempts to redress the situation, both by acting sternly against the
rioters and by ensuring security and livelihood for the riot-affected.

What we have instead is the trauma of riot-affected populace living in inhuman
conditions in resettlement camps, despite three months having elapsed after the
riots. Newspapers have been actively covering their pathetic condition: infant
deaths due to the onset of winters and lack of medical and hygiene facilities,
women getting raped, mass marriages of underage girls to prevent sexual
assaults, children missing out on school, young men without work and livelihood.
Full of temporary shelters with plastic sheets for roofs, these camps have
become a living hell for those forced to reside there. It is a proven fact that
communities affected during such riots are susceptible to being lured into
anti-national activities. These riots not only impact families but also taint
certain communities. The state government, however, remains totally brazen in
its apathy towards this humanitarian crisis.

But we can't afford to be oblivious to this suffering. It needs to be
highlighted to prevent what could be a pattern in the coming months in UP. Not
only is it the most populous state, it also has the highest number of seats in
the Lok Sabha. With its near absence in eastern and southern India, the BJP can
afford to succeed electorally next year if it does well in UP.

Since the early 1990s, and the days of LK Advani's Rath Yatra, the BJP has only
done well in the state when it has been able to stoke communal tension. The real
intentions of the party were evident when it felicitated the riot-accused MLAs
at Agra at a Narendra Modi rally. They were hailed and showcased as saviours of
the Hindu community, when they have been arrested by the police for instigating
riots by distributing fake video CDs and making inflammatory speeches.

The ruling party in UP, the Samajwadi Party, has been equally reprehensible in
its deeds. In its bid to woo what it believes is its voter base, the party has
been announcing community specific sops for rehabilitation. It is indeed
distressing when the intent is not to help the affected for humanitarian reasons
but to provide for political consolidation. Law and order is a state subject and
it is the duty of the state government to ensure victims get compensated and
rehabilitated, and due judicial process followed to try the rioters. It must
also ensure that strict steps are taken to prevent repetition of such incidents.
Unfortunately, we find the state government's response totally inadequate, as
this report clearly indicates.

The SP, BSP and BJP have been in power in Uttar Pradesh since 1989. These
parties have done nothing to ameliorate the root causes of violent communal
riots: slow economic growth, poor education figures, sub-Saharan Human
Development figures, repeated emphasis on caste and religious identities, and
above all, a singular lack of political will to improve the condition of the
people. While the incidents of riots have increased under the current SP
dispensation, the other governments have also done little to bring inclusive
growth to the state. Unless conditions for social and economic growth are
actively promoted by the parties ruling it, instead of focusing on their
casteist or communal agendas, UP will remain vulnerable to communal strife.

The Muzaffarnagar riots and its victims should have brought home the need for
the enactment of the Prevention of Communal Violence Act, which has been pending
for many years now. But parties which can't look beyond the narrow politics of
hate are at the forefront of opposing this Act, which can prevent many future
Muzaffarnagars.

The choice is upon us now. Do we want to further a divisive agenda which thrives
on manipulating the religious identities of people and unleashes immense
humanitarian tragedy? Or do we want a proud, modern India that thrives in its
pluralism, where all communities prosper under the guarantees provided by our
constitution?

Priyanka Chaturvedi is a blogger, columnist and is on the panel of spokespersons
of the All India Congress Committee. She blogs at The Book Lovers and Priyanka
Chaturvedi. Views are personal.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            January 14, 2014 Tuesday

Akhilesh Yadav's outsourcing of riot relief work to religious outfits risky

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty

SECTION: COMMENTS & ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 925 words


As fog and dusk enveloped Muzaffarnagar's Loi village, riot victims huddled in
their cramped tents - a fragile refuge after rioters destroyed their ancestral
homes in September. Mothers clung to their babies, striving to protect them from
the bitter winter chill. Hungry children cried for food as women struggled to
make rotis on a chullah fired by dry sugarcane leaves.

About 50 yards away, stood a couple of monstrous excavators - the most visible
sign of the state in riot-ravaged Muzaffarnagar. While the world celebrated New
Year, these excavators had rolled into Loi and demolished shelters of about
3,600 riot victims.

While tracking the communal riots that singed Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring
Shamli, it has increasingly become clear that the Uttar Pradesh government has
abdicated its responsibility and let wounds fester. First it failed to save
lives and property in one of the most vicious riots in recent times. Then, it
failed to assuage the pain of riot victims by not providing adequate relief and
compensation. The government's supply of ration, medicines and doctors, milk for
babies, clothes and blankets for riot victims has been intermittent and hugely
inadequate. And when the Sup-reme Court rapped it for suffering and deaths in
the relief camps, the UP government responded with a drive to dismantle most of
the 58 camps.

By Muzaffarnagar district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma's estimate, the riots
displaced 51,000 people - 27,198 from Muzaffarnagar and the rest from Shamli -
from 150 villages. Four months after the riots, only 950 families from nine
''severely affected'' villages have received Rs 5 lakh compensation from the
state government. Yardstick for picking only nine villages is not clear. Fate of
the other homeless riot victims is uncertain.

The government has also failed to remove fear - many riot accused still roam
freely - and restore confidence so that victims return home. Instead, Samajwadi
Party's government forced many of them to sign affidavits pledging never to
return to their ancestral villages if they accepted the Rs 5 lakh compensation.
This move deliberately or otherwise has heightened a sense of hurt and
injustice. It could deepen the communal divide.

Other mainstream political parties too have been scarce in their solidarity with
or relief for riot victims. There is scant investment in confidence building
between the warring communities. The vacuum left by political parties and civil
society groups in this rural belt of western UP has been filled in by religious
outfits. A slew of Muslim religious organizations have been helping with a
steady supply of relief and even mass marriage of daughters of riot victims.
They are also building houses and helping riot victims, who lost their
livelihood, earn.

A fact-finding team of intellectuals from Delhi University and JNU found that
the UP government has outsourced relief work to religious outfits. A reality
check at ground zero lends credence to this finding and bares an insidious
design as old as the idea of India, but not yet rusty. Politics perilously
continues to stir the religious-emotional cauldron, either to consolidate
electoral power in our ballot box democracy or to save an eroding political
base.Muzaffarnagar has a notorious crime record, but its communal amity stood
out in UP.

In the Jatland, Muslims and Hindus have lived in harmony for centuries. It
remained mostly unscathed in the communal frenzy over Partition or Babri masjid
demolition.

Village communities built over the ages included people from all backgrounds
contributing to the rural economy. Muslim farm labourers worked on land owned by
Jats, artisans - blacksmiths, carpenters - were settled by landlords regardless
of their religious identity to make the village self-sufficient.



Economy and not religion was the overriding factor. Every member preserved his
religious or social identity while being part of a cohesive whole. The September
2013 riots changed that, rupturing social relations cemented over centuries.
This is bound to tell on the economy of the country's sugar bowl.

Demography of the region is poised for a change too. Villages here had a largely
mixed population. The riots drove out mostly Muslims. A large section of them
refuse to return ever. The pattern of settlement of riot victims, mostly with
help from religious outfits, portends ghettoisation. Communal homogeneity is
inimical to a secular democracy like India. But this could be the future for
post-riot villages, churned by a blend of religious segregation and political
opportunism.

Help in adversity strengthens bonds and extracts loyalty. During the riots,
community leaders and village pradhans - both Hindus and Muslims - emerged as
saviours and guardians. If Muslim riot victims are beholden to their community
leaders for standing by in crisis, Hindu villagers commend theirs for pandering
to the majority's victimhood - lurking in their collective subconscious.

These pradhans and community leaders are potential ghetto overlords. After all
amidst UP's political ferment, ghettos could well become the newest captive vote
banks controlled by ghetto overlords. They would be open to exploitation by
political parties - at a price - for gains in elections.

History, as Stephen Chan says, shows that reconciliation is difficult in a
polarized society till each pole lives out its subjectivity. Without
reconciliation, the future does not augur peace. Muzaffarnagar's communal
frisson spells the end of certainty, at least for now.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

England riots: mapping the distance from home to offence

BYLINE: Simon Rogersguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 930 words

ABSTRACT

Was there a riot commute? How far were accused rioters from home? ITO World has
helped us map those accused of rioting in August. See what the data says

FULL TEXT

They were the "riot commuters", people who came from far and wide to take part
in - or just watch - the disturbances across England. But did they really exist?
How far did people actually travel?

Now we have the first answer: 2.2miles

According to analysis by the UK's top transport data mapping company, ITO world
- based on the Guardian's database of riot-related court records - the average
distance from home to where defendants were accused of a riot offence was just
over two miles, or a half hour walk.

If the most likely road route was taken into account, that distance rose to 2.6
miles.

VIDEO HERE

That varies between cities - in Manchester, the average from home to offence
location was 2.8 miles. In Birmingham, the average was 2.9 miles and in
Nottingham, 2.6.

In London, people were closer to home: 1.5 miles in Peckham and 2.2 miles in
Brixton. But those accused of riot-related offences in suburban Ealing and
Croydon were 2.7 miles and 2.3 miles.

One 20 year-old student interviewed as part of the Reading the Riots project cut
short his holiday abroad to fly back and take part in the Croydon, Lewisham and
Brixton riots. It cost him £200 to change his flight. He lives in south London.
"Even though it was a waste of money, it was so worth it. If I could go back in
time I wouldn't change it. Absolutely worth it."

An analysis of one day's court hearings by the BBC earlier this year found 70%
of those accused of riot-related crimes had travelled from outside their area.
Communities secretary Eric Pickles called it "riot tourism", and it may cause
the withdrawal of benefits and council housing from those accused of rioting,
even in a different borough. Housing minister Grant Shapps said at the time: "If
someone has travelled for those riots, then the fact you have committed it in
the next-door borough or somewhere else should count equally".

Wandsworth council was the first to have served an eviction notice to someone
accused of rioting in Clapham, which is in the neighbouring borough of Lambeth.
Southwark Council has written to 35 tenants where they or a member of their
household had been charged over the disorder across London threatening possible
eviction.

Of those who travelled more than four miles, a third of them were based in
Manchester - the three defendants in the Guardian sample whose alleged offence
was furthest from home (8 miles) came from the city's suburbs. And Guardian data
mapping showed that while the riots themselves were in the city centre, the vast
majority of people accused of involvement lived in the outer districts.

One 22 year-old in Salford spoke of how he and ten of his friends were involved
in the riots in the city for several hours before going to the disturbances in
Manchester. He says: "...I went to Manchester as well like, just to have a look,
to see what was going on there. It was a totally different atmosphere. In
Salford it had it's own character, it was more like a party atmosphere..." The
group stayed in Manchester for an hour before returning to the riot in Salford.
"[in] Manchester...thought, 'this is madness, go back to Salford', went back to
Salford."

The data came from 1,100 individual's magistrates' courts records collected by
the Guardian. For around 600 of them, postcodes for both home and offence
location were available. The ITO World analysis is based on a smaller sample of
400 where both postcodes were detailed enough to allow exact mapping.

There are some hefty caveats: we don't know for sure that those accused of
rioting took these routes, or that they left from home. This is, in effect, a
model for what might have happened.

There is anecdotal evidence to back it up, however.

In London, one 18 year-old interviewee from Lewisham described how he and his
friends drove around in a van to several riot sites, including Croydon and
Catford and Clapham to take looted goods from rioters. "I went to Lewisham
first...I was trying to get stuff from people who got stuff...what we did was,
we'd chill with them, be like 'yeah...we've got this van...they'd put their
stuff in teh van and we're just like 'bye'...And then we'll go off and then we
heard that something's going on ...Clapham, so we go down Clapham."

One 24 year-old man described his car journey from Chingford to the riot in
Tottenham: "We [saw] cars and there were groups of boys. Only group of boys in
vans. And they were speeding down the motorway tryna get to that direction ...
everyone was communicating. Everyone was putting their hazards on. It was all a
laugh. It was like a, just a fun day out. There was no law. Nothing to control
us...So we got there. They blocked off the exit towards the Tottenham junction
and we saw about 12 police vans parading down the motorway at that same time.
Everyone was speeding past them. Everyone was swearing at them. People were
flashing their hazards, putting on their beams. The police just carried on
driving. They didn't stop for no-one."

More open data

Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian

World government data

· Search the world's government data with our gateway

Development and aid data

· Search the world's global development data with our gateway

Can you do something with this data?

· Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group·
Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk

· Get the A-Z of data· More at the Datastore directory· Follow us on Twitter·
Like us on Facebook

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

India: I had opposed post-Godhra riots, will continue to do so: Modi

LENGTH: 533  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, March 31 -- Under renewed attack over the post-Godhra riots, Gujarat
Chief Minister Narendra Modi today said he was opposed to that violence and
still denounces them.

Joining the battle with Congress over its attack on Amitabh Bachchan for
endorsing Gujarat as its brand ambassador and questioning him on the post-Godhra
violence, Modi wrote in his blog, "Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots
and still does. Every citizen must oppose riots.

"Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots, 1985 Gujarat riots or
atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots. There cannot be
different standards to judge riots."

Analysts see significance in his condemnation of the post-Godhra riots which
hardly found any mention in his public utterances in the last eight years.

However, Modi recalled that he had denounced the riots in the assembly in 2002.

He was apparently reacting to Congress spokesman Manish Tiwari's poser to
Bachchan about whether he endorsed Modi's role in the communal conflagration or
condemned it. "Does he (Bachchan) condemn the role of Narendra Modi in the 2002
Gujarat pogrom or he endorses it? What does he say about the Gujarat massacre
and fake encounters that took place since Modi took over," Tiwari had asked at a
media briefing in Delhi yesterday after Modi hit out at the Congress, saying
those opposing the film icon were "Taliban of untouchability".

"After the 2002 riots I had made a statement in Vidhan Sabha in March 2002 that
was, 'Are we not supposed to soul- search ourselves? Whether it is Godhra
incident or post-Godhra it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society.
These riots are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head
high. Then why is there a difference of opinion."

He said, "Since then my painful appeal has not been heard by those who are bent
upon defaming Gujarat nor do I foresee that it will be heard by them now.

"Any unsubstantiated criticism of the land of Gandhi, Sardar (Patel) can never
be tolerated. Gujarat will give a befitting reply again, and again and again
come what may." He went to write "Yesterday, I had written in my blog about the
new 'Talibans of untouchability'. I firmly believe that in the society, there
should be no place for untouchability," he said apparently referring to the way
Congress leaders were shunning Bachchan after the party high command reportedly
took exception to Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan sharing dais with him
at the opening of the carriageway of Bandra-Worli sea link in Mumbai recently.

Modi said what he wrote in the blog was not with reference to any party or
individual and expressed surprise over the sharp reaction it had drawn from the
Congress party.

"Yet parties like the Congress have taken it personally and felt offended. Why
has the Congress reacted in such a way as it did!!! People have to understand
the reasons behind it," he said.

"I would not like to waste my time in reacting to the friends of Congress who
have angrily reacted yesterday," Modi added. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Daily Pak Banker. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 13, 2014 Monday
                                Kolkata Edition

How Ghettos Get Made

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 907 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's dangerous that Akhilesh's government has outsourced riot relief
work to religious outfits


As fog and dusk enveloped Muzaffarnagar's Loi village,riot victims huddled in
their cramped tents - a fragile refuge after rioters destroyed their ancestral
homes in September.Mothers clung to their babies,striving to protect them from
the bitter winter chill.Hungry children cried for food as women struggled to
make rotis on a chullah fired by dry sugarcane leaves.About 50 yards away,stood
a couple of monstrous excavators - the most visible sign of the state in riot
-ravaged Muzaffarnagar.While the world celebrated New Year,these excavators had
rolled into Loi and demolished shelters of about 3,600 riot victims.While
tracking the communal riots that singed Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring Shamli,it
has increasingly become clear that the Uttar Pradesh government has abdicated
its responsibility and let wounds fester.First it failed to save lives and
property in one of the most vicious riots in recent times.Then,it failed to
assuage the pain of riot victims by not providing adequate relief and
compensation.The government's supply of ration,medicines and doctors,milk for
babies,clothes and blankets for riot victims has been intermittent and hugely
inadequate.And when the Supreme Court rapped it for suffering and deaths in the
relief camps,the UP government responded with a drive to dismantle most of the
58 camps.By Muzaffarnagar district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma's estimate,the
riots displaced 51,000 people - 27,198 from Muzaffarnagar and the rest from
Shamli - from 150 villages.Four months after the riots,only 950 families from
nine '' severely affected'' villages have received Rs 5 lakh compensation from
the state government.Yardstick for picking only nine villages is not clear.Fate
of the other homeless riot victims is uncertain.The government has also failed
to remove fear - many riot accused still roam freely - and restore confidence so
that victims return home.Instead,Samajwadi Party's government forced many of
them to sign affidavits pledging never to return to their ancestral villages if
they accepted the Rs 5 lakh compensation.This move deliberately or otherwise has
heightened a sense of hurt and injustice.It could deepen the communal
divide.Other mainstream political parties too have been scarce in their
solidarity with or relief for riot victims.There is scant investment in
confidence building between the warring communities.The vacuum left by political
parties and civil society groups in this rural belt of western UP has been
filled in by religious outfits.A slew of Muslim religious organisations have
been helping with a steady supply of relief and even mass marriage of daughters
of riot victims.They are also building houses and helping riot victims,who lost
their livelihood,earn.A fact-finding team of intellectuals from Delhi University
and JNU found that the UP government has outsourced relief work to religious
outfits.A reality check at ground zero lends credence to this finding and bares
an insidious design as old as the idea of India,but not yet rusty.Politics
perilously continues to stir the religiousemotional cauldron,either to
consolidate electoral power in our ballot box democracy or to save an eroding
political base.Muzaffarnagar has a notorious crime record,but its communal amity
stood out in UP.In the Jatland,Muslims and Hindus have lived in harmony for
centuries.It remained mostly unscathed in the communal frenzy over Partition or
Babri masjid demolition.Village communities built over the ages included people
from all backgrounds contributing to the rural economy.Muslim farm labourers
worked on land owned by Jats,artisans - blacksmiths,carpenters - were settled by
landlords regardless of their religious identity to make the village
self-sufficient.Economy and not religion was the overriding factor.Every member
preserved his religious or social identity while being part of a cohesive
whole.The September 2013 riots changed that,rupturing social relations cemented
over centuries.This is bound to tell on the economy of the country's sugar
bowl.Demography of the region is poised for a change too.Villages here had a
largely mixed population.The riots drove out mostly Muslims.A large section of
them refuse to return ever.The pattern of settlement of riot victims,mostly with
help from religious outfits,portends ghettoisation.Communal homogeneity is
inimical to a secular democracy like India.But this could be the future for
post-riot villages,churned by a blend of religious segregation and political
opportunism.Help in adversity strengthens bonds and extracts loyalty.During the
riots,community leaders and village pradhans - both Hindus and Muslims - emerged
as saviours and guardians.If Muslim riot victims are beholden to their community
leaders for standing by in crisis,Hindu villagers commend theirs for pandering
to the majority's victimhood - lurking in their collective subconscious.These
pradhans and community leaders are potential ghetto overlords.After all amidst
UP's political ferment,ghettos could well become the newest captive vote banks
controlled by ghetto overlords.They would be open to exploitation by political
parties - at a price - for gains in elections.History,as Stephen Chan says,shows
that reconciliation is difficult in a polarised society till each pole lives out
its subjectivity.Without reconciliation,the future does not augur
peace.Muzaffarnagar's communal frisson spells the end of certainty,at least for
now.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 13, 2014 Monday
                                  Pune Edition

How Ghettos Get Made

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 907 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's dangerous that Akhilesh's government has outsourced riot relief
work to religious outfits


As fog and dusk enveloped Muzaffarnagar's Loi village,riot victims huddled in
their cramped tents - a fragile refuge after rioters destroyed their ancestral
homes in September.Mothers clung to their babies,striving to protect them from
the bitter winter chill.Hungry children cried for food as women struggled to
make rotis on a chullah fired by dry sugarcane leaves.About 50 yards away,stood
a couple of monstrous excavators - the most visible sign of the state in riot
-ravaged Muzaffarnagar.While the world celebrated New Year,these excavators had
rolled into Loi and demolished shelters of about 3,600 riot victims.While
tracking the communal riots that singed Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring Shamli,it
has increasingly become clear that the Uttar Pradesh government has abdicated
its responsibility and let wounds fester.First it failed to save lives and
property in one of the most vicious riots in recent times.Then,it failed to
assuage the pain of riot victims by not providing adequate relief and
compensation.The government's supply of ration,medicines and doctors,milk for
babies,clothes and blankets for riot victims has been intermittent and hugely
inadequate.And when the Supreme Court rapped it for suffering and deaths in the
relief camps,the UP government responded with a drive to dismantle most of the
58 camps.By Muzaffarnagar district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma's estimate,the
riots displaced 51,000 people - 27,198 from Muzaffarnagar and the rest from
Shamli - from 150 villages.Four months after the riots,only 950 families from
nine '' severely affected'' villages have received Rs 5 lakh compensation from
the state government.Yardstick for picking only nine villages is not clear.Fate
of the other homeless riot victims is uncertain.The government has also failed
to remove fear - many riot accused still roam freely - and restore confidence so
that victims return home.Instead,Samajwadi Party's government forced many of
them to sign affidavits pledging never to return to their ancestral villages if
they accepted the Rs 5 lakh compensation.This move deliberately or otherwise has
heightened a sense of hurt and injustice.It could deepen the communal
divide.Other mainstream political parties too have been scarce in their
solidarity with or relief for riot victims.There is scant investment in
confidence building between the warring communities.The vacuum left by political
parties and civil society groups in this rural belt of western UP has been
filled in by religious outfits.A slew of Muslim religious organisations have
been helping with a steady supply of relief and even mass marriage of daughters
of riot victims.They are also building houses and helping riot victims,who lost
their livelihood,earn.A fact-finding team of intellectuals from Delhi University
and JNU found that the UP government has outsourced relief work to religious
outfits.A reality check at ground zero lends credence to this finding and bares
an insidious design as old as the idea of India,but not yet rusty.Politics
perilously continues to stir the religiousemotional cauldron,either to
consolidate electoral power in our ballot box democracy or to save an eroding
political base.Muzaffarnagar has a notorious crime record,but its communal amity
stood out in UP.In the Jatland,Muslims and Hindus have lived in harmony for
centuries.It remained mostly unscathed in the communal frenzy over Partition or
Babri masjid demolition.Village communities built over the ages included people
from all backgrounds contributing to the rural economy.Muslim farm labourers
worked on land owned by Jats,artisans - blacksmiths,carpenters - were settled by
landlords regardless of their religious identity to make the village
self-sufficient.Economy and not religion was the overriding factor.Every member
preserved his religious or social identity while being part of a cohesive
whole.The September 2013 riots changed that,rupturing social relations cemented
over centuries.This is bound to tell on the economy of the country's sugar
bowl.Demography of the region is poised for a change too.Villages here had a
largely mixed population.The riots drove out mostly Muslims.A large section of
them refuse to return ever.The pattern of settlement of riot victims,mostly with
help from religious outfits,portends ghettoisation.Communal homogeneity is
inimical to a secular democracy like India.But this could be the future for
post-riot villages,churned by a blend of religious segregation and political
opportunism.Help in adversity strengthens bonds and extracts loyalty.During the
riots,community leaders and village pradhans - both Hindus and Muslims - emerged
as saviours and guardians.If Muslim riot victims are beholden to their community
leaders for standing by in crisis,Hindu villagers commend theirs for pandering
to the majority's victimhood - lurking in their collective subconscious.These
pradhans and community leaders are potential ghetto overlords.After all amidst
UP's political ferment,ghettos could well become the newest captive vote banks
controlled by ghetto overlords.They would be open to exploitation by political
parties - at a price - for gains in elections.History,as Stephen Chan says,shows
that reconciliation is difficult in a polarised society till each pole lives out
its subjectivity.Without reconciliation,the future does not augur
peace.Muzaffarnagar's communal frisson spells the end of certainty,at least for
now.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 13, 2014 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

How Ghettos Get Made

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 907 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's dangerous that Akhilesh's government has outsourced riot relief
work to religious outfits


As fog and dusk enveloped Muzaffarnagar's Loi village,riot victims huddled in
their cramped tents - a fragile refuge after rioters destroyed their ancestral
homes in September.Mothers clung to their babies,striving to protect them from
the bitter winter chill.Hungry children cried for food as women struggled to
make rotis on a chullah fired by dry sugarcane leaves.About 50 yards away,stood
a couple of monstrous excavators - the most visible sign of the state in riot
-ravaged Muzaffarnagar.While the world celebrated New Year,these excavators had
rolled into Loi and demolished shelters of about 3,600 riot victims.While
tracking the communal riots that singed Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring Shamli,it
has increasingly become clear that the Uttar Pradesh government has abdicated
its responsibility and let wounds fester.First it failed to save lives and
property in one of the most vicious riots in recent times.Then,it failed to
assuage the pain of riot victims by not providing adequate relief and
compensation.The government's supply of ration,medicines and doctors,milk for
babies,clothes and blankets for riot victims has been intermittent and hugely
inadequate.And when the Supreme Court rapped it for suffering and deaths in the
relief camps,the UP government responded with a drive to dismantle most of the
58 camps.By Muzaffarnagar district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma's estimate,the
riots displaced 51,000 people - 27,198 from Muzaffarnagar and the rest from
Shamli - from 150 villages.Four months after the riots,only 950 families from
nine '' severely affected'' villages have received Rs 5 lakh compensation from
the state government.Yardstick for picking only nine villages is not clear.Fate
of the other homeless riot victims is uncertain.The government has also failed
to remove fear - many riot accused still roam freely - and restore confidence so
that victims return home.Instead,Samajwadi Party's government forced many of
them to sign affidavits pledging never to return to their ancestral villages if
they accepted the Rs 5 lakh compensation.This move deliberately or otherwise has
heightened a sense of hurt and injustice.It could deepen the communal
divide.Other mainstream political parties too have been scarce in their
solidarity with or relief for riot victims.There is scant investment in
confidence building between the warring communities.The vacuum left by political
parties and civil society groups in this rural belt of western UP has been
filled in by religious outfits.A slew of Muslim religious organisations have
been helping with a steady supply of relief and even mass marriage of daughters
of riot victims.They are also building houses and helping riot victims,who lost
their livelihood,earn.A fact-finding team of intellectuals from Delhi University
and JNU found that the UP government has outsourced relief work to religious
outfits.A reality check at ground zero lends credence to this finding and bares
an insidious design as old as the idea of India,but not yet rusty.Politics
perilously continues to stir the religiousemotional cauldron,either to
consolidate electoral power in our ballot box democracy or to save an eroding
political base.Muzaffarnagar has a notorious crime record,but its communal amity
stood out in UP.In the Jatland,Muslims and Hindus have lived in harmony for
centuries.It remained mostly unscathed in the communal frenzy over Partition or
Babri masjid demolition.Village communities built over the ages included people
from all backgrounds contributing to the rural economy.Muslim farm labourers
worked on land owned by Jats,artisans - blacksmiths,carpenters - were settled by
landlords regardless of their religious identity to make the village
self-sufficient.Economy and not religion was the overriding factor.Every member
preserved his religious or social identity while being part of a cohesive
whole.The September 2013 riots changed that,rupturing social relations cemented
over centuries.This is bound to tell on the economy of the country's sugar
bowl.Demography of the region is poised for a change too.Villages here had a
largely mixed population.The riots drove out mostly Muslims.A large section of
them refuse to return ever.The pattern of settlement of riot victims,mostly with
help from religious outfits,portends ghettoisation.Communal homogeneity is
inimical to a secular democracy like India.But this could be the future for
post-riot villages,churned by a blend of religious segregation and political
opportunism.Help in adversity strengthens bonds and extracts loyalty.During the
riots,community leaders and village pradhans - both Hindus and Muslims - emerged
as saviours and guardians.If Muslim riot victims are beholden to their community
leaders for standing by in crisis,Hindu villagers commend theirs for pandering
to the majority's victimhood - lurking in their collective subconscious.These
pradhans and community leaders are potential ghetto overlords.After all amidst
UP's political ferment,ghettos could well become the newest captive vote banks
controlled by ghetto overlords.They would be open to exploitation by political
parties - at a price - for gains in elections.History,as Stephen Chan says,shows
that reconciliation is difficult in a polarised society till each pole lives out
its subjectivity.Without reconciliation,the future does not augur
peace.Muzaffarnagar's communal frisson spells the end of certainty,at least for
now.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 31, 2001

A riot that never was;
Police choose their words with care and escape a big pay-out

BYLINE: Andrew Loudon

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 615 words


PETROL bombs, stone-throwing, looting and arson it had all the ingredients of a
riot.

But the mayhem in Burnley two months ago was merely 'a serious disturbance'
according to police and, for some victims, that means ruin.

Had Lancashire Constabulary declared it a riot, anyone whose property was
damaged would have been able to claim against the police authority. But instead
people who lost their homes and businesses have to rely on insurance payouts and
several were not insured.

The upshot is that one family whose home was set ablaze while they were inside
it are GBP 80,000 worse off while others do not know whether they will ever get
their businesses going again.

Had they been victims of the May riots in Oldham or the July riots in Bradford,
they would have been able to cite the Riot (Damages) Act of 1886.

That makes police authorities responsible for compensation where houses, shops,
buildings or their contents insured or not are damaged 'by any persons riotously
and tumultuously assembled together'.

A senior Lancashire police official spoke of the surprise that greeted other
forces' admissions that they had riots on their hands.

He said: 'I was in our operations room when the Bradford police chief went on
the TV news saying it was a riot. Our ops room erupted. We thought, "Good
heavens, he's used the R-word that'll cost him.''' In Burnley, on June 24,
hundreds went on the rampage, hurling petrol bombs and bricks, torching
overturned cars, looting shops and setting houses, businesses and the Duke of
York pub ablaze.

More trouble followed on the next two nights, all sparked by unconnected clashes
between whites and Asians against a background of unrest whipped up by the
British National Party. But in all Lancashire Constabulary's ensuing dealings
with the media they never once called it a riot.

Yesterday, when the Daily Mail asked the force about the Burnley riots the
response was: 'Disturbances, you mean ?' A spokesman added: 'Police can call it
a riot if it reaches a certain point but Burnley didn't get that far. At no time
did we call it a riot, so it would be the insurers who would pay out, not the
police. We've been very careful all along not to say "riot". We only ever called
it a serious disturbance.' Burnley's deputy mayor Rafique Malik said: 'There's
no two ways about it Burnley had a race riot, although the police only called it
serious disorder.

'The only difference between Burnley, Bradford and Oldham is that here Asian
community leaders went out among the rioters stopping them from injuring the
police.

'I believe people who were underinsured or not insured should be compensated.
The riots were not their fault. It is grossly unjust that they should be left in
this situation.' On June 24, newsagent Mohammed Sarfraz, his wife Rashda, sons
Babar, 16, and Hamaun, 15, and daughter Mariam, ten, were in their Burnley home
when a mob of up to 100 smashed windows, wrecked their shop across the road and
torched their car.

'I called the police but they didn't come,' said Mr Sarfraz.

'The rioters set my house alight while we were inside.

Neighbours rescued us but the house was gutted.

'I had no insurance because I couldn't afford it. Now, because the police won't
admit it was a riot, I have lost more than GBP 80,000 and the future is dark.'
The repair bill for Burnley is expected to run to several hundred thousand
pounds. In Bradford it is estimated at GBP 7million and in Oldham at GBP
1million to GBP 2million.

The Riot (Damages) Act was invoked after the riots in several cities in 1981,
landing taxpayers with enormous bills.

a.loudon@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

BJP takes pamphlets on riots to mosques, silent on Gujarat 2002

BYLINE: Pragya Kaushika

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Hitting back at critics of its prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, the
Delhi BJP's minority unit has brought out a pamphlet on communal riots in the
country. It lists the riots, the number of people killed, and the party in power
at the time of the incident.

But the pamphlets, distributed in mosques across Delhi on Friday, make no
mention of the 2002 Gujarat riots. They do, however, mention three riots in
Gujarat - in 1969, 1985 and 1992 when the Congress was in power.

The pamphlets, listing riots from 1947 to the recent one in Uttar Pradesh under
Samajwadi Party rule, underline that the maximum number of communal riots took
place during Congress rule.

"Does anyone know who the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh was when communal
riots broke out in Maliana, Meerut and Moradabad? Did we hear names of chief
ministers when Gujarat saw communal riots in which many Muslims were killed? But
when we speak about agriculture development rate in Gujarat, the reply we get is
2002 communal riots. When we say that Asia's largest power plant is in Gujarat,
the reply is 2002 riots. When we say per capita income of Muslims is the highest
in Gujarat, all we hear in reply is 2002 riots. It all depends on you... whether
you want development or treason," the pamphlet states.

Atif Rashid, head of the BJP's minority morcha, said the pamphlet was brought
out ahead of the Sunday rally so that Muslims could "understand the real
issues".

"Nobody is questioning the Congress. We have seen Muslims progress under BJP
rule. People of our community should know this," Rashid said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Broken prison system to blame for riots - Clarke: Minister urges reform
of jails that fail to rehabilitate 'criminal classes'

BYLINE: Paul Lewis Matthew Taylor James Ball

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words


The justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, has blamed the riots that swept across
England last month on a "broken penal system" that has failed to rehabilitate a
group of hardcore offenders he describes as the "criminal classes".

Revealing for the first time that almost 75% of those aged over 18 charged with
offences committed during the riots had prior convictions, Clarke said the civil
unrest had laid bare an urgent need for penal reform to stop reoffending among
"a feral underclass, cut off from the mainstream in everything but its
materialism".

Writing in the Guardian, Clarke dismisses criticism of the severity of sentences
handed down to rioters and said judges had been "getting it about right".
However, he adds that punishment alone was "not enough".

"It's not yet been widely recognised, but the hardcore of the rioters were in
fact known criminals. Close to three quarters of those aged 18 or over charged
with riot offences already had a prior conviction. That is the legacy of a
broken penal system - one whose record in preventing reoffending has been
straightforwardly dreadful."

He says: "In my view, the riots can be seen in part as an outburst of outrageous
behaviour by the criminal classes - individuals and families familiar with the
justice system, who haven't been changed by their past punishments."

Clarke uses his intervention to call for the coalition government to adopt a
"renewed mission" in response to the riots that addressed an "appalling social
deficit".

His comments will reignite the debate on the causes of the disturbances, which
the prime minister, David Cameron, has said "were not about poverty".

The first attempt at an empirical study of the causes and consequences of the
riots was announced by the Guardian and the London School of Economics
yesterday.

The study - Reading the Riots - will involve researchers interviewing hundreds
of people involved in the disturbances. The research, supported by the Joseph
Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society Foundations, will also include
interviews with residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced analysis of
more than 2.5m riot-related Twitter messages.

The project is based on a groundbreaking survey conducted in the aftermath of
the Detroit riots in 1967 by the Detroit Free Press newspaper and Michigan's
Institute for Social Research.

The professor who led the Detroit study, Phil Meyer, is advising on the research
into the disturbances in England. The LSE's involvement will be led by Professor
Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department.

There is little agreement in Westminster about the causes of the worst civil
unrest in England in a generation. The government has resisted calls for a
public inquiry. A "victims' panel" announced by the deputy prime minister, Nick
Clegg, will take evidence from residents in areas where there was rioting and
report preliminary findings in November. The four-person panel will be chaired
by Darra Singh, chief executive of JobCentre Plus.

A parliamentary hearing into the riots will today hear evidence from the mayor
of London, Boris Johnson, and the acting commissioner of the Metropolitan
police, Tim Godwin. The home secretary, Theresa May, will speak to the home
affairs select committee about the unrest on Thursday.

"There is an urgent need for some rigorous social research which will look,
without prejudice, at the causes and the consequences of the recent riots,"
Newburn said. "Crucially, it is vital that we speak with those involved in the
disturbances and those affected by them to try to understand any lessons for
public policy."

Executives at Twitter's headquarters in California authorised the collation of
2.5m tweets, pooled from hashtags relating to the riots and their aftermath, so
they could form part of the study. A spokesman for the company said: "Twitter
provided publicly available information that is accessible to researchers and
others."

The project will also interrogate a second database, compiled by the Guardian,
containing 1,100 defendants who have appeared in court charged with riot-related
offences. The data, covering more than 70% of the defendants processed through
English courts for offences linked to the disorder, indicates that sentencing by
crown court judges has replicated the punitive response of magistrates in
response to the riots.

An initial analysis of the crown court cases suggests the three most severe
sentences relating to the riots were handed to individuals who did not directly
participate in the disorder, but were convicted of inciting riots via Facebook.

They include Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan and Jordan Blackshaw, who received four
years for inciting riots in their home towns of Warrington and Northwich. None
of the messages posted by either individual led to a riot and both men are
appealing against their sentences.

However, Clarke warns against criticism of the judiciary. "The judiciary in this
country is independent and we should trust judges and magistrates to base
decisions on individual circumstances," he writes. "Injustices can occur in any
system: but that's precisely why we enjoy the services of the court of appeal."

The tone of the justice secretary's article - his first public response to the
disorder - contrasts with that of the prime minister, who has taken a more
hardline approach and denied that the riots were connected to poverty.

Captions:

The riots in English cities last month were 'an outburst of outrageous behaviour
by the criminal classes', according to Kenneth Clarke Photograph: EPA/Kerim
Okten

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

THE POLITICS OF ANARCHISM

BYLINE: By Aditya Menon

LENGTH: 821  words


GIVEN the present state of the political discourse in the country, Ward
Berenschot's Riot Politics would be considered a rather politically incorrect
book. It comes at a time when it has become fashionable to term the 2002 Gujarat
riots as a thing of the past, which should conveniently be forgotten for the
sake of " good governance" and strong leadership". However, Berenschot's
narrative of the riots is completely different from the various accounts that
have come out so far.

The author, a political scientist at the Royal Netherlands Institute for
Southeast Asian and Caribbean studies, views the riots from the prism of a
researcher. The most crucial aspect of Riot Politics is that it treats the 2002
pogrom as a culmination of a process and not as an event, as has been the case
with the various accounts of the violence written by journalists and activists.

Berenschot presents an extremely sophisticated analysis of the riots, combining
a diverse set of theoretical frameworks with extensive ethnographic data. The
data has been collected through 15 months ethnographic fieldwork during which
Berenschot stayed in three different local- ities in Ahmedabad from January 2005
to March 2006. He firmly places his work in the framework of scholars influenced
by Partha Chatterjee, who emphasised that politics needed to be seen in its
everyday manifestations.

He narrates how the development of the modern state in Gujarat led to the break
down of traditional forms of local leadership.

The functions performed by traditional guilds were taken over by the state
apparatus. But as the bureaucracy and the municipal officials failed in
providing equitable services to all citizens, political workers from Hindu
communalist outfits like the Bajrang Dal, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the
Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bharatiya Janata Party stepped in.

They acted as brokers for state patronage and negotiated the people's way
through the state apparatus. For such political workers " getting things done"
also meant cultivating local criminals as well as statelevel politicians. By
providing a number of real examples from the field, the author establishes how
these networks came into play to carry out the riots.

Berenschot contends that the networks came up in response to everyday challenges
experienced by the people and were eventually used during the riots.

These networks, he narrates, relentlessly disseminated propaganda about Hindu-
Muslim rivalries throughout the 1990s, so much so that they even held Muslims
responsible for civic problems.

By stressing on the organised nature of the riots, Berenschot shatters the myth
that the Gujarat riots, or any other riots for the matter, are nothing but an
emotional outburst. " In their descriptions of riots, journalists regularly
speak of ' frenzied mobs', ' on a rampage' to ' vent their anger'. By offering
the emotional state of rioters as an explanation for the violence, they help to
legitimise the violence," he writes. The details Berenschot provides of the sort
of coordination that went into organising the riot are eye- opening. The riots
were a special occasion for which the Hindutva outfits set aside their self-
righteous antipathy to intoxicants! Alcohol, tobacco and drugs were also
provided to the rioters to numb their senses.

Riot Politics is a stinging indictment of the sort of politics the BJP has
pursued in Gujarat. This is particularly evident in the comparison Berenschot
draws between two of the areas he did his fieldwork in - Isanpur which suffered
heavily during the riots, and Ramrahimnagar which hasn't witnessed violence for
the past 30 years. The patronage networks operating in both the areas are more
or less identical.

But while the BJP politicians in Isanpur chose to expand their influence by
instigating violence against Muslims, the Dalit and Muslim residents of
Ramrahimnagar, backed by the Congress, remained united and maintained peace in
their area. In fact, Berenschot narrates that during the peak of the violence in
Ahmedabad, the residents of Ramrahimnagar threatened RSS- VHP activists of dire
consequences if they indulged in any mischief.

The book also doesn't spare Narendra Modi as it quotes a state minister as
having said that the Gujarat chief minister instructed the police to " co-
operate" with the rioters. Moreover, by delving in detail into the crucial role
played by brokers and middle- men, Berenschot also ends up poking holes into
Modi's claims of running an efficient administration based on equitable and
timely delivery of services.

However, the significance of Riot Politics as a book goes much beyond the
observations it makes about Modi. Its approach involving a detailed focus of the
working of networks at the localised level can be uszd to study a variety of
political phenomena, and not just riots.

Riot Politics is a sophisticated analysis of the riots, collected through months
of ethnographic fieldwork

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

Religious riots down in 2015, but other riots rise

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 15 -- Religious tension in Ballabhgarh, Haryana, when 150 Muslims
sought refuge in a police station; clashes between Hindus and Muslims during
Ganesh festival processions in Belgaum, Karnataka, and riots over the birth
anniversary celebrations of medieval ruler Tipu Sultan in Madikeri, Karnataka,
represented India's religious volatility in 2015.

However, communal rioting cases in the country declined by a third, from 1,227
in 2014-the year that Narendra Modi was voted Prime Minister-to 789 in 2015,
according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data.

About 40% fewer Indians died or were injured-called "victims" in NCRB
terminology-in 2015 (1,1,74) than in 2014 (2,001).

Haryana, India's 17th largest state by population, reported the most (201)
communal rioting cases in 2015, with 200 dead or injured, followed by Karnataka
(163 cases, 203 victims), Maharashtra (80 cases, 104 victims) and Bihar (79
cases, 146 victims).

In Haryana, the rate of riots remained unchanged at 7.5 rioting cases per
million population. Karnataka reported an increase in riot incidence, from 0.6
rioting cases per million to 2.6 rioting cases per million, while the cases
quadrupled, from 38 in 2014 to 163 in 2015.

Kerala had more "political riots" than any other state, with more than half of
India's cases.

Jharkhand reduced its rate of riots, from 10 rioting cases per million to 2 per
million. The overwhelmingly tribal state became five times more communally
peaceful in 2015 compared to 2014-when assembly elections were conducted-with
communal rioting cases dropping 80% from 349 to 68.

After relatively peaceful decade, riots on the rise across India

Thirty-five years after rioting cases in India peaked at 160 per million in
1980, the country witnessed a relatively peaceful decade with respect to
communal violence, especially in the period 2003-2012, when riot rate dropped to
50 cases per million.

The incidence of riots has increased over the last three years to 60 cases per
million, or 20% more frequent compared to the last decade.

Source: National Crime Records Bureau

Rioting cases increased 251% over six decades, from 20,529 in 1953 to 76,131 in
2015; the highest ever. For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes
listed under "unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous
years.

Source: Crime In India Reports, 1997 to 2015, National Crime Records Bureau

Note: For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes listed under
"unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous years.

Of 76,131 rioting cases registered in 2015, 65,255 were filed under sections 147
to 153 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), meaning offences relating to riots, while
10,876 cases were filed under sections 141 and 142 of the IPC, meaning offences
relating to unlawful assembly. As many as 74,633 cases in 2012 and 72,126 in
2013 were registered under riots and unlawful assembly.

Cases filed only under "riots" have decreased between 2014 and 2015, while those
relating to "unlawful assembly" have increased.

Source: Crime in India 2015, National Crime Records Bureau

Note: For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes listed under
"unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous years.

Mass unrest nationwide in 2015 by dominant caste groups-Patels in Gujarat and
Jats in Haryana-likely resulted in the high cases of "unlawful assembly".

Bihar and Kerala: Riot leaders of India

In absolute terms, Bihar had more riots than any other state with 13,311 cases
registered in 2015, followed by Maharashtra (8,336), Uttar Pradesh (6,813),
Karnataka (6,602).

The assembly elections in Bihar in 2015, and the parting of ways of the 25-year
old coalition of the Janata Dal (United) (JDU) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)
resulted in a rise in riots in the Hindi heartland state over three years from
2013, the Indian Express reported in August 2015.

Kerala had 164 rioting cases per million population-the country's highest
rate-followed by Bihar (129), Karnataka (126).

While Jharkhand reported eight caste-based rioting cases per million population,
Tamil Nadu reported six.

Bihar reported more "agrarian riots" cases than any other state, (1,156), or 43%
of cases in the country.

(In arrangement with IndiaSpend.org, a data-driven, non-profit, public interest
journalism platform. The views expressed are those of IndiaSpend. Feedback at
[email protected])

- IndiaSpend

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Govt pledges free legal aid to 1984 riot victims

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 400 words


Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his government will
provide free legal assistance to all victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. In an
emotional discussion on the riots during which Rajouri Garden MLA Jarnail Singh
broke down, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said that he would seek time from Prime
Minister Narendra Modi so that all 70 MLAs could meet him and ask for prompt
action on the SIT set up by the ministry of home affairs to investigate the
riots. The House also demanded action against Congress member Jagdish Tytler for
his alleged involvement in the riots.

Kejriwal also said that had exemplary punishment been given to the perpetrators
of the 1984 riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots would not have happened. "The Sikh
community had been asking for an SIT for 30 years. When the AAP government came
to power in 2013, we constituted an SIT. Before it could be made

functional our government resigned. But before we came back to power, the home
ministry formed another SIT. We are willing to support it but I don't see
anything happening," said Kejriwal.

The motion was moved by Singh who spoke at length about the riots, relating his
personal experiences of the riots in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination. Hari Nagar MLA Jagdeep Singh, who was 13 years old at the time of
the riots, also recounted how he went hospital to hospital with his mother,
looking for his father who had disappeared during the riots and alleged that

both BJP and Congress had only played politics over the issue.

Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan first raised the issue of the Gujarat riots, saying
that if Tytler had been punished for his role in the 1984 riots, then the riots
in Muzaffarnagar, Trilokpuri and other places would not have happened.

The motion moved by the House stated: "This House requests the Union government
to take immediate cognizance of the recent revelations made against Congress
leader Jagdish Tytler in affidavits of CBI by one Abhishek Verma, that this
Congress politician influenced witnesses and made payments through hawala, and
order registration of a criminal case against him. The SIT notified by the Union
home ministry earlier this year must be asked to submit its report within the
stipulated deadline. All cases which were closed by the Delhi Police, which is
itself an accused organization of the 1984 riots, must be reopened and
investigated by an impartial agency ."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

BJP gains in polls after every riot, says Yale study

BYLINE: DP Bhattacharya

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 504 words


GANDHINAGAR: While many within the Congress blame its electoral debacle to the
party's obsession with "minority appeasement", a recent study conducted by three
political scientists of the Yale University claim that had Congress lost all
close elections between 1962 and 2000, there could have been 10% more communal
riots in the country.

Gareth Nellis, Michael Weaver, Steven Rosenzweig, political scientists from the
Yale University in their paper titled "Do parties matter for ethnic violence?
Evidence from India", have maintained that "the election of a single Congress
MLA in a district brought about a 32% reduction in the probability of a riot
breaking out prior to the next election. Simulations reveal that had Congress
candidates lost all close elections in our dataset, India would have faced 10%
more riots and thousands more riot casualties".

"The pacifying effect of Congress incumbency appears to be driven by local
electoral considerations, in particular the party's exceptionally strong
linkages to Muslim voters during the period we investigate," they have written.
They further maintain that "riots produce ethnic polarization that benefits
ethno-religious parties at the expense of the Congress". The paper maintains
that while the Hindu-Muslim riots are electorally costly for the Congress, these
riots in effect strengthen the "ethno-religious parties at the expense of
multi-ethnic ones like the Congress".

Analysing the effect of riots on the vote share of "Hindu nationalist parties",
the paper notes that "the BJS/BJP saw a 0.8 percentage point increase in their
vote share following a riot in the year prior to an election". "The polarization
of the electorate induced by riots disadvantages Congress in subsequent
elections, making it counter-productive for the party's affiliates to instigate
riots following an electoral loss," the paper notes.

"In addition, local Muslim voters - on whom the Congress depended for votes -
would presumably have looked unfavorably towards Congress orchestrating riots in
which Muslims were the principal victims. This would make instigating riots a
highrisk strategy where there are large Muslim populations, yet this is
precisely where we find the effect of Congress to be strongest," the paper adds.

"India itself underwent traumatizing paroxysms of Hindu-Muslim violence during
the partition of the subcontinent in 1947; there were fears following
independence that enmity stemming from this cleavage would again tear the
country apart," the paper notes.

It adds: "The paramount importance of Congress's role is underscored by the fact
that our estimates likely place a lower bound on its true impact. Taken in
conjunction with the main result, our secondary finding that riots reduce
subsequent Congress vote shares raises the possibility of a feedback loop or
multiplier effect, whereby the outbreak of Hindu-Muslim violence causes Congress
to lose votes and seats, which in turn leads to more riots, and so on in a
vicious cycle."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

BJP gains in polls after every riot, says Yale study

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: Gandhi Nagar


Gandhi Nagar, Dec. 8 -- While many within the Congress blame its electoral
debacle to the party's obsession with "minority appeasement", a recent study
conducted by three political scientists of the Yale University claim that had
Congress lost all close elections between 1962 and 2000, there could have been
10% more communal riots in the country.

Gareth Nellis, Michael Weaver, Steven Rosenzweig, political scientists from the
Yale University in their paper titled "Do parties matter for ethnic violence?
Evidence from India", have maintained that "the election of a single Congress
MLA in a district brought about a 32% reduction in the probability of a riot
breaking out prior to the next election. Simulations reveal that had Congress
candidates lost all close elections in our dataset, India would have faced 10%
more riots and thousands more riot casualties".

"The pacifying effect of Congress incumbency appears to be driven by local
electoral considerations, in particular the party's exceptionally strong
linkages to Muslim voters during the period we investigate," they have written.
They further maintain that "riots produce ethnic polarization that benefits
ethno-religious parties at the expense of the Congress". The paper maintains
that while the Hindu-Muslim riots are electorally costly for the Congress, these
riots in effect strengthen the "ethno-religious parties at the expense of
multi-ethnic ones like the Congress".

Analysing the effect of riots on the vote share of "Hindu nationalist parties",
the paper notes that "the BJS/BJP saw a 0.8 percentage point increase in their
vote share following a riot in the year prior to an election". "The polarization
of the electorate induced by riots disadvantages Congress in subsequent
elections, making it counter-productive for the party's affiliates to instigate
riots following an electoral loss," the paper notes.

"In addition, local Muslim voters - on whom the Congress depended for votes -
would presumably have looked unfavorably towards Congress orchestrating riots in
which Muslims were the principal victims. This would make instigating riots a
highrisk strategy where there are large Muslim populations, yet this is
precisely where we find the effect of Congress to be strongest," the paper adds.

"India itself underwent traumatizing paroxysms of Hindu-Muslim violence during
the partition of the subcontinent in 1947; there were fears following
independence that enmity stemming from this cleavage would again tear the
country apart," the paper notes.

It adds: "The paramount importance of Congress's role is underscored by the fact
that our estimates likely place a lower bound on its true impact. Taken in
conjunction with the main result, our secondary finding that riots reduce
subsequent Congress vote shares raises the possibility of a feedback loop or
multiplier effect, whereby the outbreak of Hindu-Muslim violence causes Congress
to lose votes and seats, which in turn leads to more riots, and so on in a
vicious cycle."

Thanks

http://m.economictimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/bjp-gains-in-polls-a...

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

BJP, SAD slam Rahul remarks on Gujarat, 1984 anti-Sikh riots

LENGTH: 536  words

DATELINE: New Delhi,amritsar


The BJP and SAD on Tuesday attacked Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi for his
comments Monday on the 2002 post-Godhra and 1984 anti-Sikh riots during an
interview with Times Now.



The BJP refuted Rahul's remarks alleging complicity of the Gujarat government
during the Godhra riots while rejecting similar suggestions regarding the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. The BJP asserted that the Gujarat administration led by
Narendra Modi ensured the victims got justice while charging the Congress of
denying justice to the victims of anti-Sikh violence.

"The slogan 'Khoon ka badla khoon' was raised on the afternoon of October 31,
1984 at AIIMS, where Mrs Gandhi's body lay. Congress leaders were seen leading
the mobs and Sikhs were massacred at thousands of places," Leader of Opposition
in Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley said.

"What has Rahul Gandhi to say on the famous statement of Rajiv Gandhi - 'When
big tree falls, the earth shakes'," BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad highlighted
while addressing a press conference.

The BJP sought to take a moral high ground pointing that not only did Narendra
Modi get a clean chit but the state administration also effectively dealt with
the post-Godhra riots and subsequent prosecution. In contrast, it highlighted,
that the victims of 1984 anti-Sikh violence are still waiting for justice.

Ravi Shankar Prasad summed Rahul's interview as a "performance of evasion, which
was amateurish, rank falsehood and unfortunately of rank ignorance" of "a leader
unsure of himself" whose "inadequacies" were displayed during the interaction.

Meanwhile, SAD attacked Rahul for his comments that the Congress government had
tried to stop the 1984 riots in Delhi. SAD president and Punjab deputy CM
Sukhbir Singh Badal urged the whole (Sikh) community to boycott Congress after
the "admission" by "all in all of the party" that some party leaders were
involved in 1984 riots.

He added that the court should take suo motu notice of Rahul's statement and
immediately register a case.

The SAD chief added: "I was watching Rahul's interview where he says the then
Congress government tried to stop riots. The fact is that government did not
stop but supported the riots." Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal also
demanded a resolution in Parliament by the Congress apologising for the 1984
riots.

'Post-Godhra riots were orchestrated'

NEW DELHI: The Congress Tuesday came out in full support of party vice-president
Rahul Gandhi's views and his contrast of the 1984 and 2002 riots arguing that
while the 84 riots were a "spontaneous" reaction, the post-Godhra riots were
orchestrated.

The Congress also pointed out that the Supreme Court had moved hundreds of
trials in riot cases out of Gujarat in a clear "vote of no confidence" on the
state government as it was felt that "impartial, fair dispensation of justice"
cannot happen under Modi's watch. On the other hand, there were around 442
convictions in connection with the 1984 riots. Party spokesperson Abhishek Manu
Singhvi, however, parried questions on whether the party has acted against
Congressmen found involved in the 84 riots merely pointing out that the
political careers of ministers and very senior Congress leaders have had an
adverse effect. ENS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday

Remembering the race riot

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 631 words


THE SPRINGFIELD Race Riot of 1908 is not an event that this city celebrates, nor
is it a part of history that Springfield ignores.

How exactly to commemorate the darkest chapter in Springfield history has long
been a vexing and divisive topic. Springfield's pride over being the hometown of
The Great Emancipator adds a layer of conflict that has made the issue even more
difficult. With the centenary of the riot only three years away, devising a
fitting commemoration will present a challenge for Springfield and will
certainly place the Springfield Race Riot squarely back in the news. While the
race riot is part of Springfield's local history, it also proved to be an event
of long-lasting national import in that it was a catalyst in the formation of
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

SPRINGFIELD'S efforts to properly recognize the race riot have drawn criticism
over the years because of their inconclusiveness and slow pace. Last April, the
Internet offshoot of the political magazine The Nation carried an article
headlined, "The Lincoln Museum and Springfield's Shame," that chastised
Springfield for celebrating its Lincoln history at the expense of the less
tourism-friendly history of the race riot. The article took particular issue
with the removal of historical markers that marked significant sites of the
Springfield Race Riot and that had been temporarily removed during construction
of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

"(S)hortly after ground was broken for the museum, construction workers removed
those markers to make way for the new buildings," wrote Adrian Brune. "A couple
of those markers went back up recently, but not the one that once stood where
the back corner of the library is today. The city plans to re-install the
monument but still hasn't figured out where to put it."

WE HATE to rain on the parade of guilt Brune has marched into Springfield, but
those historical markers are about to be replaced (one is being rebuilt, the
other had been misplaced during storage). More importantly, the director of the
Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau is among those forming a group to
plan an appropriate commemoration for the race riot's 100th anniversary in
August 2008.

Implicit in the arguments of those who have criticized Springfield for not doing
more to recognize the Springfield Race Riot has always been a belief that
Springfield wants to ignore and forget this part of its history and focus solely
on the more positive and lucrative Lincoln connection. The fact that the race
riot does not receive more Lincolnesque treatment, they imply, is evidence of a
deeply ingrained racism unique to Springfield.

Such arguments are unfair and uninformed.

THE REAL PROBLEM in Springfield's handling of the race riot has been logistical.
How do you memorialize an event that happened in places that no longer exist?
Little Rock, Ark., turned Central High School - site of some of the ugliest,
most enduring images of the civil rights movement - into the Little Rock Central
High School National Historic Site. The Springfield Race Riot has no such focal
point; no buildings from the two-day riots remain. Efforts to memorialize the
Springfield Race Riot also have suffered from lack of any impending deadline.
Until now.

The return of the historical markers along the race riot's route should be
viewed as step one in a process that will culminate three years from now on the
riot's 100th anniversary. This no doubt is an anniversary that will not be
pleasant to mark. Planning and executing events that will recognize the
Springfield Race Riot's place in local and national history presents a
formidable challenge that, after years of delays, this city appears to have
embraced.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 2005 The State Journal-Register


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            East Anglian Daily Times

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

Who pays for riot damage?

BYLINE: Duncan Brodie

SECTION: BIZZ

LENGTH: 453 words


WILL OAKES of Attwells Solicitors explains the financial help which may be
available to those who had property damaged during the recent riots

ALTHOUGH the riots earlier this month did not directly affect East Anglia, there
are many people within the region who have property in London and other cities
whose interests have been affected.



Indeed Attwells' Solicitors, whose head office is in Ipswich, has a branch
office in St Johns Wood in north London which was fortunately untouched by the
riots but inundated by clients seeking advice on their legal position.

Following the riots, the Government has made announcements with regards to the
assistance that is now available. This includes a fund available to local
authorities so that they can offer relief from business rates for businesses in
their area affected during the riots.

The Government has urged the Valuation Office Agency and local authorities to
remove damaged homes and businesses from their valuation lists as soon as
possible thereby removing these premises' liability to Council Tax and business
rates.

Ministers have also asked local authorities to give priority to planning
applications in relation to riot-damaged properties, and consideration is also
being given to whether shutters and security measures should be included as
"permitted development", so avoiding the need for planning permission.

The Riot Damages Act 1886 still remains in force and effect and Section 2(1) of
the Act provides: "where a home, shop or building in a police area has been
injured or destroyed, or the property therein has been injured, stolen or
destroyed by any persons riotously or tumultuously assembled together,
compensation shall be paid out of the police fund of the area to any person who
has sustained loss by such injury, stealing or destruction". Compensation is not
available for costs which flow from a delay caused by the riots.

The definition of a riot is contained in the Public Order Act 1986 and will
depend upon whether or not the police have identified the disturbance as a riot.
If the Riot Act applies then a claim can be made for compensation from a local
police authority.

The Government has now increased the period under which a claim can be made to
the police authority from 14 days to 42 days (Riot (Damages) (Amendment)
Regulations 2011 (SI 2011/2002),

The Government has also simplified the process for making a claim by removing
the requirements for specific information to be on the claim form or for the
claim form to be in a specified form (Riot (Damages) (Amendment No 2)
Regulations 2011 (SI 2011/2009)).

The Mayor of London has also committed £50million for investment in the high
streets in the capital affected during the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

BJP reads Congress the riot act

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 27 -- To neutralise the attack on Narendra Modi and the Gujarat
riots, BJP think-tank PPRC prepares a comparative document that reveals a
horrifying chronicle of communal violence under non-BJP governments.

Death and destruction are staple fodder for demagogues to ignite popular
passions during elections. Riots are the stormy petrels of confrontationist
politics and are used by mainstream parties, especially Congress, to capitalise
on minority insecurity. In spite of Rahul Gandhi's faux pas on Muzaffarnagar
youth being contacted by ISI after last month's riots, Congress pipers continue
to play a single tune-'Narendra Modi's hands are stained with blood of 2002
Gujarat riot victims.'

With seven months to go for the 2014 general elections, strategists on both
sides are at work to change the political discourse for political gains. To
counter the Congress gameplan to target Modi on the Gujarat riots, the BJP's
newly minted think-tank, Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC), re-launched on
October 21 and headed by director Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has drafted a nine-page
document on the history of communal riots in India. The well researched document
suggests that the communal record of Congress governments and that of other
non-BJP parties is far worse than Modi's one time taint and the Gujarat riots
should not been seen in isolation.

The research paper entitled 'A Factsheet on Communal Riots in India' documents
the history of sectarian violence in India, which it states has become a
"permanent phenomenon after the 1960s" due to politics of "vote bank and
appeasement."

It goes on to record India's long history of communal strife. As the purpose of
the document is to counter the 'secular 'offensive on Narendra Modi, the think
tank has presented a comparative study of causes and responsibilities regarding
other major riots including the 1983 Nellie Massacre, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
and the Ahmedabad riots of 1969. The comparative graph forms a virtual arsenal
to attack the Congress's failed record of maintaining communal stability in
states it has ruled. In the 1983 Nellie Massacre (result of clash es between
ethnic Assamese and Bangladeshi settlers) 1,819 Muslims were killed on Congress
watch. During the 1984 Delhi riots that followed Indira Gandhi's assassination,
around 2,733 Sikhs were butchered. In the 1969 Ahmedabad riots in Congress-ruled
Gujarat triggered by an attack on a temple, the toll was 512.

More: Saffron study nails congress's riot governance

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 March 9, 2015
                                 First Edition

Coalition approves sale of anti-riot weapons to human rights violators;
ARMS SALES

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 584 words


The Coalition has approved the sale of £16m of crowd control and anti-riot
equipment, including tear gas and rubber bullets, to countries which regimes
placed on its own human rights blacklist, i can reveal.

The figures detailing the export of material implicated in the quelling of
internal dissent in locations from Egypt to Hong Kong are made public ahead of a
Home Office-organised business fair held behind closed doors this week which
will showcase British arms and security companies to dozens of foreign
governments.

Campaigners said the figures showing Britain's vigorous trade in crowd control
and anti-riot materials with countries where internal repression has been widely
documented showed the Government is putting commercial interests ahead of its
human rights obligations and running the risk of failing to abide by its own
export rules.

Since the Coalition came to power in 2010, export licences for at least £15.9m
of crowd control goods from riot shields to "irritant ammunition" to more than
100 countries have been approved by Vince Cable's Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills (BIS). They include £10m of tear gas or anti-riot
irritants, £640,000 of "crowd control ammunition" and £3.1m of riot shields.

None of the exports are unlawful and much of the material goes to established
democracies and close allies from France to the United States. A large number of
crowd control licences for "anti-riot acoustic devices" worth £54m in total and
cleared for deployment to countries including Nigeria, Yemen and Egypt are in
fact for use in anti-piracy operations off the African coast and in the Indian
Ocean.

But crowd control supplies have also been cleared for export to countries and
territories with authoritarian regimes and questionable human rights records,
including Libya, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Hong Kong and Egypt. Nine of the
countries to receive export approvals - Afghanistan, Bahrain, Colombia, Iraq,
Israel, Libya, Pakistan, Russia and Saudi Arabia - feature or have featured on
the Foreign Office's human rights blacklist of Countries of Concern over the
last five years.

The figures compiled from Government data by the Campaign Against the Arms Trade
(CAAT) show that goods worth £6.7m were cleared for shipping to the nine
countries between 2010 and last September, including £2.95m of tear gas to Saudi
Arabia.

The department said: "We examine every application. Risks around human rights
abuses are a key part and we do not grant licences where there is a clear risk."

Tear gas exports to Hong Kong worth £147,000 were approved for the former colony
in 2011. The Government insists there's no proof British supplies were among the
87 rounds fired at demonstrators.

Crowd control customers

FCO Countries of Concern - crowd control exports 2010-14

Afghanistan

£3,900 - ballistic shields

Colombia

£17,525 - anti-riot/ballistic shields Iraq £24,940 - anti-riot/ballistic shields
£25,940 - components for civil riot control or agent protection equipment

Israel

£950 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £11, 420 - components for civil riot control
or agent protection equipment

Libya

£380,840 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £2.9m - tear gas/irritant ammunition
(clearance subsequently revoked) £227,806 - crowd control ammunition (clearance
subsequently revoked)

Pakistan

£107,063 - anti-riot/ballistic shields

Russia

£19,920 - riot control protection equipment

Saudi Arabia

£10,796 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £30,920 - riot control protection
equipment £2.9m - tear gas/irritant ammunition

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

84 riots were genocide, says Rajnath

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Dec. 26 -- Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide",
Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh today said several persons who had a "role" in
the carnage are yet to be punished.

"In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," Rajnath said today after distributing cheques of
enhanced compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.

"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

The Union minister distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.

According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459 people
will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots.

"I want to assure that after getting complaints through this committee,
government will solve them," he said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

Singh said that he wanted to give its credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Calling the 1984 anti-Sikh riots a "genocide", Singh said, "It was not riot, it
was genocide instead. Hundreds of innocent people were killed. The pain of the
kin of riot victims cannot be compensated by even paying crores of rupees."

Meanwhile, some kin of the riot victims said they want the culprits to be
punished instead of the compensation.

"My pain cannot be reduced by money and I want to see culprits being punished.
Even after 30 years, main culprits are roaming free," 70-year-old Amarjeet,
whose husband Satnam was killed in the riots, said after receiving the cheque
from the Union Minister.

"We cannot expect anything from the government. These riots took place in 1984,
but the justice is yet to prevail.

"I don't want money but justice," Bakshish Kaur, whose husband was also killed
in the riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday

Political riots

BYLINE: Meghnad Desai

LENGTH: 681  words


Fast forward 38 years and we have a politically engineered riot.

What is it about Muzaffarnagar? In his recently reissued book on the Emergency,
Kuldip Nayar reminds us that in October 1975 it was the site of a
'mini-Jallianwala Bagh'. This was the work of Sanjay Gandhi, now erased from the
family history. He had decided to sterilise as many Muslim male adults as he
could find. The Muslims of Muzaffarnagar did not like what was happening to
them, protested and were shot. But at least that was not a communal riot.

Fast forward 38 years and we have a politically engineered riot. It is as if
someone had written a screenplay for a suspense film. At first small incidents,
followed by a bit of retaliation here and there. Then the pace picks up with a
doctored film clip and passions are aroused. Before you know it, there are
mahapanchayats and a full scale massacre. The police arrive too late-either
under orders or just out of ignorant connivance-but the death and destruction
are real.

A Dutch scholar, Ward Benenschot, has just written about the 2002 Gujarat riots.
Riot Politics is a book which explains the relationships at the grass-roots
which foment such riots. In normal times, citizens cannot get what they are
entitled to from the state. They need agents, intermediaries. Their municipal
councillor or MLA through their chamchas provide access to such services. Given
the political colouring of the area, the Muslim MLA looks after Muslim clients
and Hindus after Hindus.

When trouble starts, this useful machinery is turned into a fighting force. Then
the clients who owe a favour to their leaders are used to throw stones and wield
knives. This enhances the clout of their protectors who then get their votes.
The riots do not normally last a long time. Soon, there is bonhomie among people
who were burning each other's houses. MLAs resume their helpful work and life
reverts to normal.

Riots do not flare up if there is timely police action as soon as there is an
initial disturbance. Police are often stymied by their political masters. There
is vote bank logic in letting your clients suffer before you, their preferred
political party, come to their rescue. If they are unharmed and police have done
their job , how can the MLA get his kudos for protecting his clients? The cycle
has resumed with a mahapanchayat in Meerut, in the BJP's bid for Jat votes.

Uttar Pradesh will be the battleground for 2014. All parties want a large slice
of its 80 seats. The four-cornered contest between the Congress, Samajwadi
Party, BSP and BJP will be furious.  Communal riots are being used to secure
vote banks. Each side will blame the others but the BJP stands to lose most as
it will be recast as the communal party, not as a governance one as Modi wants.
This is just what the secular parties want.

One thousand communal riots have occurred in the past eight years. Yet the total
number of dead was 965, less than one per riot. Muzaffarnagar with 48 casualties
is an extreme case. The Muzaffarnagar riots have not yet yielded any serious
convictions. It is not so much the MLAs and MPs who matter as they will get away
scot-free in any case. One needs to arrest the real culprits at the grass-roots
level.

There is here a paradox. Historically riots such as Bhagalpur, Meerut and
Bhiwandi which happened during the Congress years in power did not lead to any
serious convictions though to many reports and inquiries. The Gujarat riots
have, however, led to convictions; in Godhra itself, both for the people who
allegedly torched the Sabarmati Express carriage in which 59 died, as well as
the Hindu mobs which killed Muslims in the Ode area. There are the Naroda Patiya
convictions in which BJP member Maya Kodnani has been sentenced to 28 years. No
doubt the tally is not over yet.

Is it not strange that no Congress leader has yet been sentenced for 1984 nor
anyone for the Mumbai 1993 riots, or that the riots during Rajiv Gandhi's days
such as Bhagalpur have not led to many convictions? Is it because the Congress
is secular that  no riots during its rule can be communal?

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Riot Fest update: The show will go on

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


Sept. 08--The show will go on.

A federal lawsuit was dropped Tuesday that could have blocked Riot Fest from
holding its three-day concert in Douglas Park.

With the concert days away, there's no need to cancel your plans, music fans.

So, what happened?

Who: St. Anthony Hospital is located on 19th Street directly across from Douglas
Park. Riot Fest plans to set up stages at the southern half of Douglas Park in
close proximity to the hospital. St. Anthony Hospital sued Riot Fest.

When: Riot Fest announced its move from Humboldt Park to Douglas Park in May. On
Friday, St. Anthony Hospital filed the lawsuit against Riot Fest. At a court
appearance on Tuesday, both sides announced they reached a settlement. The fest
will go on as scheduled for Sept. 11-13.

Where: Riot Fest is now set for Douglas Park after getting shown the door by
Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) and some Humboldt Park residents who were upset
over how long it took for the park to get restored after last year's festival.
Riot Fest will be held in the area from Ogden Avenue south to 19th Street, and
Albany Avenue east to California Avenue.

Why: The lawsuit said the hospital raised concerns over anticipated noise
levels, disruption, hospital access and congestion but those concerns were
disregarded after seeing a festival map in August. The hospital got its lawyers
involved and Riot Fest changed its layout. A new map shows the main entrance at
Ogden and Sacramento Avenues with a side entrance at 18th Street and the stages
facing away from the hospital. The suit said the change did not resolve the
disruption Riot Fest would cause the hospital. Riot Fest claimed St. Anthony's
threatened them with the lawsuit unless they paid the hospital roughly $150,000.
The hospital denied the allegation and said Riot Fest broke noise abatement
promises.

What happened: Both sides reached a settlement to the lawsuit that allows Riot
Fest to stay in Douglas Park for the weekend as planned. In a joint statement,
they said, "Unfortunately, passions ran high on both sides and motivations were
questioned. Both sides regret their aggressive statements." They agreed on
compromises including the restoration of parking on 19th Street in front of the
hospital, the erection of pedestrian barricades on the west side of California
Avenue, sound monitoring within the hospital and the option to close traffic if
pedestrian and car congestion make it difficult for emergency vehicles to access
the hospital.

Chicago Tribune contributed.

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150908-1RC-Riot-Fest-update-The-show-will-go-on-20150908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   News Point

                           December 27, 2014 Saturday

Rajnath Singh calls 1984 riots genocide

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 27 -- Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide", Union
home minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said several persons who had a "role" in
the carnage are yet to be punished.

"In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," Rajnath said today after distributing cheques of
enhanced compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.

"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

The Union minister distributed cheques of Rs. 5 lakh to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.

According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459 people
will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots.

"I want to assure that after getting complaints through this committee,
government will solve them," he said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs. 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

Singh said that he wanted to give its credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Calling the 1984 anti-Sikh riots a "genocide", Singh said, "It was not riot, it
was genocide instead. Hundreds of innocent people were killed. The pain of the
kin of riot victims cannot be compensated by even paying crores of rupees."

Meanwhile, some kin of the riot victims said they want the culprits to be
punished instead of the compensation.

"My pain cannot be reduced by money and I want to see culprits being punished.
Even after 30 years, main culprits are roaming free," 70-year-old Amarjeet,
whose husband Satnam was killed in the riots, said after receiving the cheque
from the Union Minister.

"We cannot expect anything from the government. These riots took place in 1984,
but the justice is yet to prevail.

"I don't want money but justice," Bakshish Kaur, whose husband was also killed
in the riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from News Point. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                          Copyright 2014 NewsPoint TV
                              All Rights Reserved


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

A study of toleranceThe Great Australian Race Riot delves into the rich history
of the nation's riots, writes Emma Brown.

SECTION: TV GUIDE_; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words


FOR Peter FitzSimons The Great Australian Race Riot is a marriage of two of his
greatest loves: his passion for Australian history and his genuine appreciation
of multiculturalism and what it has given Australia.

So who better to present this three-part documentary series, an explosive
journey that uncovers the country's forgotten race riots that have helped shaped
the nation.

"This was a wonderful project that really played to my strengths as I love
bringing Australian history to life and I love multiculturalism and how as
Australians we just get on with it," the bestselling author, columnist, and
storyteller explains.

While the subject matter can at times seem a bit grim and depressing FitzSimons
in his inimitable fashion brings some humour and charm to the material as well
as exposing the upside to some of the tumultuous historical events.

While the action starts from the golden sands of Cronulla beach, site of
Australia's most infamous and freshest race wound, he is quick to point out this
riot is just one in a long line.

"Cronulla beach was not an aberration in Australian history. It did make
Australians reel back in shock and horror and look at what had happened and say
this is not what we're into, this is not who we are," FitzSimons says.

The Cronulla beach riots of 2005 targeted men of 'Middle Eastern appearance' and
in the following days resulted in Lebanese-Australian youth rising up,
responding quickly in a series of retaliations.

But FitzSimons believes there is a definite upside to this ugly incident and
many of the race riots in our history.

"The lesson we learn as a nation after an event like Cronulla beach is that that
way lies madness. We don't want that for our country and we can't, and don't
want to raise our children in that world."

Australia, he says is much like the beach culture we're so fond of.

"The beach is my favourite place in Australia where people of all races and
colours lay side-by-side, a great big melting pot and that is what we want
Australia to be like."

While he readily admits Australians have had their friction points over the
years we, as a nation, have always come back together.

He suggests the recent siege in Martin Place Sydney is a case in point as there
was a fear that the Muslim community may be turned on after the tragic outcome.

"But rather than that there has been a rise in empathy. I went to Martin Place
just after the siege and Muslims were there in force and were being embraced by
the community."

On the journey FitzSimons exposes heroes and villains over a 170 year window in
history and demonstrates how mobs of every ethnicity have transformed our
nation.

Race riots became a feature of the Australian landscape as far back as 1840's
Melbourne with the sectarian violence between Catholics and Protestants.

FitzSimons says at the time The Age newspaper strongly advocated that this type
of hostility was not welcome in the new world.

Other battles and riots he looks at include those between Japanese, Timorese and
white settlers in Broome and the race riots of the late 1800's. The Snowy River
Hydro-Electric Scheme saw many conflicts in the 1950's which come under review
here. These clashes involved European workers including British, German, Greek,
Irish, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, and Yugoslavian immigrants.

The more recent 2004 Redfern riots are also investigated. The riots were sparked
by the death of young indigenous man, Thomas Hickey, and lead to a full blown
overnight riot between Aboriginal youth and the police.

A cast of expert researchers expands on the stories, while a medical historian
explores the weaponry of the fights, and a riot psychologist explains the
science of mob mentalities.

The three episodes tell a story that is shocking, heartfelt, and at times
humorous but ultimately FitzSimons shows how race riots consistently reveal a
window into who we are as a county and where we want to go.

"There is the ugliness of the mob mentality, madness takes over, but this always
dies down," he says.

After each altercation FitzSimons reveals how Australia is left changed in the
riot aftermath - sometimes for worse, but surprisingly often, with a new, more
tolerant identity.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter FitzSimons hosts new series The Great Australian Race Riot The
Great Australian Race Riot, screens Sunday January 4, at 8.30pm on SBS.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Let SC probe and all will know who are Saharanpur rioters: Yogi Adityanath

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 543 words


On a day when the Samajwadi Party government blamed the BJP for inciting the
Saharanpur riots, Yogi Adityanath, an influential BJP leader from East UP, tells
ET's Aman Sharma that an impartial inquiry into the recent riots would put the
SP government in the dock for collusion.

The UP government has blamed the BJP for Saharanpur riots today. Isn't BJP
playing with fire in UP?

It is ironical that those who doused the fire in Saharanpur, the BJP government
at the Centre, is being blamed for igniting it. Is it not a fact that the
Allahabad HC had given a verdict in favour of the Sikhs and ordered protection
be given for the construction of a gurudwara? The police and the administration
knew that the Muslims had held a meeting, yet they didn't intervene. Ultimately,
a group of 2,000 Muslims ran riot for five hours under the leadership of a
political person who is close to CM Akhilesh Yadav. SP's own senior leader Ram
Gopal Yadav has told Parliament last week that all the 17 persons arrested for
Saharanpur riots by the Police are Muslims. So how is the BJP involved in the
riots?

SP's Naresh Agarwal has said that since the role of a BJP MP has come to the
fore, it can be said that BJP also has a role.

The fact remains that the riots stopped only after Home Minister Rajnath Singh
called the UP CM and told him to control things and also sent in 600 CRPF men to
Saharanpur who controlled the riots. The BJP government stopped the riots,
rather than starting them. I believe the UP government report also blames
administrative lapses for the riots, so by that logic, it can also be said that
the SP government has a role in the riots. Who will probe that?

Congress and SP allege a bigger design behind the repeated riots in the state
and say BJP wants to deliberately polarise the state.

There have been 430 communal disturbances in UP during the tenure of Akhilesh
government. Is BJP behind all of them? The Assembly elections in UP are in 2017
- twoand-a-half years away. BJP will storm to power in the next state elections
like we did in the LS elections in UP in 2014. It is the SP which is using
Muslim polarisation to incite riots as it knows that it doesn't stand a chance
in 2017. This government needs to be dismissed.

So why doesn't the BJP govt in Centre dismiss the UP govt?

An elected government should be allowed to continue, but things cannot be as
usual if communal riots aimed at the Hindus continue to happen in UP. I would
certainly appeal to Home Minister to impose President's Rule in UP as the state
government is failing in its basic law and order duties. I am, in fact, sure
that an inquiry by a SC Judge into all riots would reveal that SP is in fact a
party of rioters, that it has incited riots and protected those who are behind
them, and the Yadav family could find itself cooling its heels behind bars.

Political leaders say your views before the House only shows how BJP is
polarising matters in the state...

I have spoken what I needed to speak. Let the SP government ask the SC to
conduct an inquiry into all the riots. I am sure connections of many of the
present political dispensation to anti-national elements could also be revealed
from this inquiry. The country should know the truth.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Let Supreme Court probe & all will know who are Saharanpur rioters says BJP
leader Yogi Adityanath

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: INTERVIEWS

LENGTH: 543 words


On a day when the Samajwadi Party government blamed the BJP for inciting the
Saharanpur riots, Yogi Adityanath, an influential BJP leader from East UP, tells
ET's Aman Sharma that an impartial inquiry into the recent riots would put the
SP government in the dock for collusion.

The UP government has blamed the BJP for Saharanpur riots today. Isn't BJP
playing with fire in UP?

It is ironical that those who doused the fire in Saharanpur, the BJP government
at the Centre, is being blamed for igniting it. Is it not a fact that the
Allahabad HC had given a verdict in favour of the Sikhs and ordered protection
be given for the construction of a gurudwara? The police and the administration
knew that the Muslims had held a meeting, yet they didn't intervene. Ultimately,
a group of 2,000 Muslims ran riot for five hours under the leadership of a
political person who is close to CM Akhilesh Yadav. SP's own senior leader Ram
Gopal Yadav has told Parliament last week that all the 17 persons arrested for
Saharanpur riots by the Police are Muslims. So how is the BJP involved in the
riots?

SP's Naresh Agarwal has said that since the role of a BJP MP has come to the
fore, it can be said that BJP also has a role.

The fact remains that the riots stopped only after Home Minister Rajnath Singh
called the UP CM and told him to control things and also sent in 600 CRPF men to
Saharanpur who controlled the riots. The BJP government stopped the riots,
rather than starting them. I believe the UP government report also blames
administrative lapses for the riots, so by that logic, it can also be said that
the SP government has a role in the riots. Who will probe that?

Congress and SP allege a bigger design behind the repeated riots in the state
and say BJP wants to deliberately polarise the state.

There have been 430 communal disturbances in UP during the tenure of Akhilesh
government. Is BJP behind all of them? The Assembly elections in UP are in 2017
- twoand-a-half years away. BJP will storm to power in the next state elections
like we did in the LS elections in UP in 2014. It is the SP which is using
Muslim polarisation to incite riots as it knows that it doesn't stand a chance
in 2017. This government needs to be dismissed.

So why doesn't the BJP govt in Centre dismiss the UP govt?

An elected government should be allowed to continue, but things cannot be as
usual if communal riots aimed at the Hindus continue to happen in UP. I would
certainly appeal to Home Minister to impose President's Rule in UP as the state
government is failing in its basic law and order duties. I am, in fact, sure
that an inquiry by a SC Judge into all riots would reveal that SP is in fact a
party of rioters, that it has incited riots and protected those who are behind
them, and the Yadav family could find itself cooling its heels behind bars.

Political leaders say your views before the House only shows how BJP is
polarising matters in the state...

I have spoken what I needed to speak. Let the SP government ask the SC to
conduct an inquiry into all the riots. I am sure connections of many of the
present political dispensation to anti-national elements could also be revealed
from this inquiry. The country should know the truth.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

UK riots inquiry panel named by Nick Clegg

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 654 words

ABSTRACT

Deputy PM announces team to look into causes of August riots, led by chair Darra
Singh, chief executive of Jobcentre Plus

FULL TEXT

Nick Clegg has named the "grassroots" panel that will lead an inquiry into the
causes of this summer's riots, setting a November deadline for them to deliver
their first verdict.

Darra Singh, the chief executive of Jobcentre Plus and former chief executive of
Ealing and Luton councils, will chair the panel, which will also include Simon
Marcus, the founder of the Boxing Academy in London, Baroness Sherlock,
previously chief executive of the National Council for One Parent Families, and
Heather Rabbatts, a former barrister.

Rabbatts went on to become Britain's youngest ever chief executive of a council,
Lambeth, and then to senior positions in organisations as diverse as the Bank of
England, the Royal Opera House and Millwall Football club.

Clegg, during a visit to Tottenham where the first riots began earlier this
month, said that a proper analysis of the causes of the outbreaks of violence
and looting across the country was essential. "The August riots were on a scale
that many people have never seen in this country. I saw devastating scenes of
burned out shops and houses in neighbourhoods around the country. I met
traumatised families who no longer had homes," he said.

"Only by listening to people who have been affected by the riots - the victims -
will we ever be able to move on and rebuild for the long term. This is not just
about individuals, but entire communities. These victims, who stood side by side
and refused to be beaten by the senseless destruction, hold the key to how
residents, shopkeepers, parents, young people and communities can move on."

The government agreed to the inquiry under pressure from the Labour leader, Ed
Miliband, amid a rush of government suggestions of how to deal with the riots
including social media shutdowns, benefit withdrawals for offenders and a
promise of "zero-tolerance" from the prime minister.

Labour accused the Tory leadership of "knee-jerk" reactions and it later emerged
that Clegg had been pushing ministers behind the scenes for an inquiry. It will
not, however, be a full public inquiry, as Labour initially argued for, which
would have been judge-led and operated under the Inquiries Act with powers to
call witnesses. It will report to all three leaders of the parties publishing
interim findings in November and a final analysis next March.

Miliband said: "We must never excuse or justify the behaviour we saw in the
riots. But we owe it to the communities affected to listen to them about why it
happened and look at the deeper causes of the criminal behaviour. The temptation
for politicians is to reach for simplistic solutions to the issues we face as a
society."

previously chaired a commission for integration and cohesion panel for Labour in
2006. Trained as a lawyer he worked in housing advice and went on to run housing
authorities then local authorities, before moving to Jobcentre Plus.

Singh said: "This is an important opportunity. I think it is vital that we hear
straight from individuals and communities that have been affected directly and
indirectly by the riots. Along with the other panel members, I am looking
forward to hearing their views on the causes and their ideas on how similar
events can be prevented in future."

The panel has been asked to investigate six areas:

· Why people took part in riots.

· Why the riots happened in some areas and not others.

· How key public services engaged with communities before, during and after the
riots.

· What motivated local people to come together to take civic action to resist
riots in their area or to clean up after riots had taken place.

· How communities can be made more socially and economically resilient in the
future, in order to prevent future problems.

· What they think could have been done differently to prevent or manage the
riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 2007 Maryland Law Review
                              Maryland Law Review

                                      2007

                              66 Md. L. Rev. 1013

LENGTH: 17034 words

THE MARYLAND SURVEY: 2005-2006: Recent Decision: THE COURT OF APPEALS OF
MARYLAND: SCHLAMP v. STATE: READING THE RIOT ACT: THE VAGARIES OF MARYLAND'S
COMMON LAW RIOT REQUIRE CODIFICATION OF THE CRIME

NAME: Thomas K. Prevas

LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... In Schlamp v. State, the Court of Appeals of Maryland considered whether a
fight between two groups of individuals, which led to the stabbing death of a
twenty-year-old college student, had the requisite elements of unlawful assembly
and public terror sufficient to justify a conviction for common law riot. ...
Fourteen years later, in Cohen, the Court of Appeals explicitly required
unlawful assembly for a common purpose when it set forth the Maryland rule for
riot. ...  Likewise, the court's narrow view of unlawful assembly is
inconsistent with Blackstone's interpretation of riot, which does not require a
planned or deliberate common purpose. ...  The Schlamp court's narrow
interpretation of the unlawful assembly and public terror requirements elevates
antiquated common law concepts over a common sense understanding of riot, and
should urge the Maryland legislature to modernize and codify riot law. ...
Although the Court of Appeals was bound to follow precedent and had little
choice but to apply the elements of unlawful assembly and public terror, its
mandate that "planned and deliberate" violent behavior must precede a riot, and
its strict application of the "public terror" requirement deviated substantially
from Briscoe v. State and trends in other jurisdictions. ...

TEXT:
 [*1013]

   In Schlamp v. State, n1 the Court of Appeals of Maryland considered whether a
fight between two groups of individuals, which led to the stabbing death of a
twenty-year-old college student, had the requisite elements of unlawful assembly
and public terror sufficient to justify a conviction for common law riot. n2 In
a unanimous decision, the Court of Appeals reversed the lower court's riot
conviction, finding neither unlawful assembly nor public terror present. n3 The
court held that no riot took place because the defendant's group was not
unlawfully assembled to "carry out a common purpose" that would terrorize
others. n4 Further, the court found that the group's activities did not
terrorize the public because the aggression prior to the incident was completely
verbal and mostly diffused. n5

   In reaching its decision, the Court of Appeals properly construed the English
common law rule for riot. n6 However, the court's assertion that the offense
must be "planned and deliberate" to constitute unlawful assembly, n7 and its
inability to find that public terror arose from a loud fight on a public street,
n8 imply an overly restrictive interpretation of the common law elements. n9
Moreover, the court's forced adherence to narrow common law vestiges should urge
the Maryland legislature to follow other jurisdictions and the federal
government and codify the crime. n10 By enacting legislation, Maryland can
abrogate antiquated and confusing words of art, such as "unlawful assembly" and
"public terror," and focus the court's attention on tangible elements, such as
the defendant's conduct. n11 Shifting away from the common law, in turn, will
promote greater consistency and understanding in  [*1014]  trial courts and will
provide prosecutors with a workable tool for combating group-instigated
violence. n12

   I. The Case

 On November 9, 2002, the University of Maryland football team defeated Atlantic
Coast Conference rival North Carolina State in a 24-21 homecoming victory. n13
To celebrate, University of Maryland student Brandon Malstrom, accompanied by
his brother Bill and their friends Brandon Conheim, Matt Swope, Matt Mitchell,
and Paul Speakman (Malstrom's group), set out around 11:30 p.m. that night to
attend parties around campus. n14 The group eventually settled into adjacent
Dickinson Avenue n15 backyard parties. n16

   Around the same time, a second group of individuals who were not students at
the University of Maryland - John Ryan Schlamp, Robert Fournier, Quan Davis,
Kenny Brock, and Jacob Adams (Schlamp's group) - were also making arrangements
to attend College Park parties that night. n17 Schlamp and Adams had spent the
day at Fournier's house watching the football game and drinking alcohol. n18 On
their way to College Park, they stopped at a liquor store where they ran into
Quan Davis and three of his friends. n19 Schlamp's group invited Davis and his
friends to meet them at another friend's house near the University of Maryland
campus. n20 Once there, Schlamp and the other members of his group resumed
drinking. n21 By midnight, the highly inebriated group left the house and went
to Dickinson Avenue. n22

   As members of Schlamp's group traveled down Dickinson Avenue, they started
verbal confrontations with individuals attending backyard parties. n23 The group
eventually reached Scott Ehrlich's  [*1015]  party, where they continued to
verbally harass invited guests. n24 At one point during the party, Davis
brandished a concealed "Rambo knife" to his friend Adams. n25 Later, Davis was
forced to leave Ehrlich's party after a girl complained that Davis
inappropriately rubbed against her. n26

   In response to the group's general demeanor and partygoers' complaints,
Ehrlich repeatedly asked the remainder of Schlamp's group to leave. n27 Shortly
thereafter, Ehrlich asked all guests to leave his backyard, and everyone
present, including Schlamp's group, obliged. n28

   Malstrom's group reconvened on Dickinson Avenue in front of Ehrlich's house,
as did Schlamp's group. n29 Another verbal confrontation broke out; this time,
Schlamp accused someone in Malstrom's group of taking his or Davis's cell phone,
and demanded that the group empty their pockets. n30 Brandon Malstrom told
Schlamp that no one had the cell phone and refused to comply with Schlamp's
demand. n31 Immediately, Schlamp shoved Brandon, and Fournier held Brandon from
behind, immobilizing him. n32 Allegedly, it was during this brief scuffle that
Brandon was stabbed to death. n33

   Around this time, a police car arrived on the scene and the crowd scattered.
n34 Conheim and Mitchell remained and told the officer that Schlamp had started
the fight. n35 The police took Schlamp into custody. n36 Members of Malstrom's
group came back, but Brandon was missing. n37 After an extensive search, Brandon
was discovered lying mortally wounded on the ground behind Ehrlich's house. n38

   The State's Attorney charged Schlamp with "first and second degree murder,
first and second degree assault, and common law riot"  [*1016]  in connection
with Brandon's death. n39 Following a trial in the Circuit Court for Prince
George's County, a jury acquitted Schlamp of murder and first degree assault,
but found him guilty of second degree assault and riot. n40 Schlamp was
sentenced to ten years in prison for riot and three years for second degree
assault, to be served consecutively. n41

   On appeal to the Court of Special Appeals, Schlamp argued that the evidence
was insufficient to support a conviction for common law riot. n42 The court
disagreed, finding evidence of unlawful assembly and public terror sufficient to
sustain the jury verdict. n43 First, the court found unlawful assembly because
the group functioned as a unit during the night through its repeated
confrontations with partygoers. n44 The court also found that the group acted
with a common violent purpose, as Fournier held Brandon from behind, Schlamp
swung at Brandon, and everyone in Schlamp's group converged around Brandon
during the altercation. n45 Second, the court found that the common purpose was
carried out in a way that terrified others because a knife was brought to the
party, and Fournier's chokehold, which constituted a battery, was sufficient to
breach the peace. n46

   Subsequently, Schlamp petitioned for certiorari to the Court of Appeals to
determine whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain his conviction for
common law riot. n47 The Court of Appeals granted certiorari on June 9, 2005, to
review the issue of common law riot for the first time since 1937 and for the
third time in the court's history. n48

[*1017]

   II. Legal Background

 Criminal riot, in Maryland and under accepted common law, consists of three
distinct elements: n49 (1) "three or more persons"; n50 (2) "unlawfully
assembled to carry out a common purpose"; n51 (3) "in such a violent or
turbulent manner as to terrify others." n52 Maryland is one of the few states
that has not codified criminal riot by statute. Instead, Maryland maintains the
crime of riot through Article V of the Maryland Declaration of Rights, which
entitles Maryland inhabitants to the common law of England as it existed on July
4, 1776. n53 Moreover, Maryland courts must consider two factors when
interpreting each element of criminal riot: first, the English common law
interpretation of each element in 1776; and second, previous interpretations of
each element by the Court of Appeals. Further, statutes from other jurisdictions
are also particularly useful. In this vein, the Federal Anti-Riot Act, 18 U.S.C.
sections 2101-02, and D.C. Code section 22-1322 provide strong bases for
comparison. n54

   A. Element One: The Three-Person Requirement

 At common law, a gathering of three or more persons was necessary to constitute
criminal riot. n55 Accordingly, Maryland courts have applied the three-person
rule in previous cases. n56 Similarly, most United States jurisdictions require
a fixed minimum number of persons to constitute a criminal riot. n57 Some states
distinguish felony riot  [*1018]  from misdemeanor riot based on the number of
people assembled. n58 This approach also has roots in the English common law.
n59

   In Maryland, and other jurisdictions, n60 the minimum number requirement
applies only to the number of people unlawfully assembled; there is no
requirement that the state charge a minimum number of defendants with riot. n61
Thus, in Cohen v. State, n62 Cohen was the only defendant charged with riot for
his role in leading and inciting a tumultuous taxi cab strike in Baltimore City.
n63 Cohen argued that the State failed to satisfy the minimum three-person
requirement because he was the only named defendant. n64 The Court of Appeals
rejected Cohen's argument and adopted the common law rule as articulated in
Commonwealth v. Berry, n65 holding that so long as the defendant is engaged with
at least two other persons, those persons need not be named if unknown to the
grand jury. n66

   B. Element Two: Unlawful Assembly for a Common Purpose

 Neither common law, Maryland law, nor other jurisdictions offer a clear
standard for the requirement of unlawful assembly for a common purpose. Some
treatises on common law maintain that riot is impossible without first having
criminal unlawful assembly - meaning, the crime requires a preconceived unlawful
purpose or design before the group assembles. n67 Other scholars, most notably
Blackstone, do not require a common purpose but only the execution of an
unlawful act by three or more persons. n68 This confusion over whether a
preconceived common purpose, or the crime of unlawful assembly, is a
prerequisite to the crime of riot, has led to inconsistent application of the
common law riot doctrine in Maryland n69 and in other jurisdictions. n70

[*1019]

   1. Unlawful Assembly for a Common Purpose at Common Law

 The relationship between unlawful assembly and riot is easily confused because
unlawful assembly is both an element of riot and stands alone as a separate
offense against the public. Perkins and Boyce describe the two offenses as
pyramiding offenses. n71 Thus, unlawful assembly occurs when three or more
persons assemble with the purpose of doing an unlawful act but without making
any motion towards it; whereas riot occurs when this same group gathers together
to carry out an act, whether lawful or unlawful, and then executes this act with
such force and tumult as to terrorize the public. n72 In short, the crimes are
pyramiding because without the first, the second is impossible. n73

   Though leading English common law scholars agreed that a preconceived common
purpose or design was a necessary element of unlawful assembly, n74 they split
over whether the same common cause was necessary for criminal riot. According to
Blackstone, whereas unlawful assembly required a gathering upon contemplation of
a preconceived unlawful or violent purpose, n75 riot could occur without a
common cause or quarrel so long as the executed act was sufficiently violent and
tumultuous to terrorize the public. n76

   Hawkins, on the other hand, arguably required a higher evidentiary standard
for unlawful assembly to constitute an element of riot: group confederation with
promises of mutual assistance. n77 For Hawkins, the promise of mutual assistance
is essential because it indicates when those otherwise innocently gathered
became rioters - confederated for the common purpose of breaking the peace. n78
Although Hawkins suggested a stricter showing of unlawful assembly than did
Blackstone, he failed to address whether a showing of mutual assistance is
necessary when a group is already confederated before the dispute arises.

   2. Unlawful Assembly for a Common Purpose in Maryland

 Maryland courts follow the common law by mandating unlawful assembly in riot
cases, but courts have applied differing levels of scrutiny  [*1020]  when
determining whether a group is unlawfully assembled with a common intent. In
Kaefer v. State, n79 the Court of Appeals considered whether to overturn a jury
conviction of riot, unlawful assembly, and assault when Kaefer and thirteen
other defendants prevented a group of fellow miners from entering the work site
by throwing stones, using clubs, and threatening bodily injury. n80 Although the
court did not expressly create a Maryland rule for riot in this case, it
accepted as sufficient the state's indictment, which alleged that thirteen men
unlawfully and riotously assembled to disturb the public peace. n81 Impliedly,
by upholding the indictment, the Kaefer court both required and found unlawful
assembly. n82

   Fourteen years later, in Cohen, the Court of Appeals explicitly required
unlawful assembly for a common purpose when it set forth the Maryland rule for
riot. n83 Cohen, the leader of a cabdriver strike in Baltimore City, was
convicted on charges of riot and inciting a riot, stemming from a violent
exchange between taxi cab picketers and workers. n84 In the days leading up to
the strike at union meetings, Cohen allegedly made numerous remarks inciting
workers to physically prevent cabs from driving off the lot. n85 On the day of
the strike, 150 Yellow Cab drivers assaulted working cabs with missiles, rocks,
stones and beer bottles. n86 Although Cohen himself was not present at the riot,
the Court of Appeals found that his role in assembling, inciting, and aiding and
abetting the unlawful acts was sufficient to uphold his conviction under the
Maryland rule. n87

   The Court of Special Appeals has reviewed three cases involving prison riots
and has found unlawful assembly and upheld riot convictions in each. In
McClelland v. State, n88 McClelland was sentenced to ten years in prison for
rioting in a Baltimore City prison. n89 McClelland contended that the evidence
was insufficient to maintain the conviction, arguing, in part, that the inmates
"pulled a protest" only  [*1021]  after officers had stifled their efforts to
protest jailhouse corruption by non-violent means. n90 McClelland attempted to
justify the inmates' planned riot as lawful by arguing that it was the last
possible action that inmates could take to ameliorate the inhumane treatment
inflicted upon them by corrupt prison officials. n91 The Court of Special
Appeals rejected this argument. n92 The court reasoned that McClelland - by
setting fires to signal the beginning of the protest and by outfitting inmates
with baseball bats and other weapons - not only participated in the riot, but
acted as a leader. n93 Although the court never explicitly reached a finding of
unlawful assembly, it cited numerous facts that spoke to the inmates'
predetermined plan to assemble for a common and unlawful purpose. n94

   Though a specific intent to join or a predetermined plan is conclusive
evidence of unlawful assembly, n95 the Court of Special Appeals has found this
high standard unnecessary, ruling that the intent to join two others in an
unlawful act is not required to maintain a riot conviction. In Briscoe v. State,
n96 Briscoe was convicted of riot by a jury based on evidence that he waved a
wooden board over his head while yelling at police and participating in the
looting of the prison's commissary. n97 Briscoe challenged his conviction, in
part, by arguing that the state failed to allege a specific intent to riot in
its indictment. n98 The court, in rejecting this argument, found that a previous
agreement or a specific intent is not essential to the offense of riot. n99 The
Briscoe court further explained that the intent, which is an element of the
offense, is simply the intent to join or encourage the riotous act. n100 By
holding that no specific intent or previous agreement was  [*1022]  required,
the Briscoe court did not interpret the element of unlawful assembly as
requiring pre-articulated promises of mutual assistance. n101

   Similarly, in Gibson v. State, n102 the Court of Special Appeals upheld a
jury conviction for riot under the weaker Briscoe standard. In Gibson, two of
the prisoner-defendants led officers into a recreation room with forty to fifty
other inmates. n103 Once there, another defendant approached the officers with a
club, ordered them up against the wall, and threatened to beat them. n104
Without inquiring into whether the defendants had a preconceived common purpose,
the court applied the Briscoe standard and found riot based solely on evidence
that three defendants assembled and acted violently. n105

   3. Unlawful Assembly in Other Jurisdictions

 Although unlawful assembly for a common purpose has been applied in Maryland
over the years, many states have either abrogated or modified this element by
statute, or follow the Briscoe interpretation n106 and require no preconceived
common purpose or concert of action. In states where unlawful assembly has been
abolished as an element, it is often replaced with language emphasizing the
conduct of the actors over their intentions for assembling. D.C. Code section
22-1322, for example, defines riot simply as "an assemblage of [five] or more
persons" who disturb the public peace "by tumultuous or violent conduct or the
threat thereof." n107

   Some states prefer to statutorily modify the common law elements without
eradicating them entirely. For example, in New Hampshire and Utah, riot lies
when a person recklessly engages in conduct that causes public alarm, or when a
person assembles with two others with the purpose of engaging in illegal
activity or causing injury to another. n108 By making the common law elements
disjunctive, these  [*1023]  states deemphasize unlawful assembly and force the
conduct of the actor to play a greater role in proving the crime. Other states
have similarly modified and deemphasized the importance of unlawful assembly by
making lawful assembly an affirmative defense to riot. n109

   Even when states retain the language of unlawful assembly in their statutes,
courts do not require evidence of a planned or deliberate common unlawful
purpose. Indiana, for instance, defines riot as when "[a] person who, being a
member of an unlawful assembly, recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engages
in tumultuous conduct." n110 In Kiphart v. State, n111 however, a defendant
challenged his conviction by alleging that the state failed to charge him with
unlawful assembly - a necessary prerequisite under the statute. n112 The Supreme
Court of Indiana disagreed. n113 Despite the statutory language, the court found
that riot was simply an act committed by three or more in a violent or
tumultuous manner. n114 Similarly, in Bolin v. State, n115 the court held that
the common purpose with which persons do the violent or tumultuous act is not
part of the statutory definition of riot. n116 Thus, even though statutes may
specify unlawful assembly as an element, some courts nevertheless do not require
a showing of a preconceived common purpose.

   C. Element Three: Violent and Tumultuous Activity Causing Public Terror

 The public terror or in terrorum populi requirement is a vestige of riot's
evolutionary past. n117 Originally, riot was associated with the crime of
treason, a crime committed against the state or the king. n118 Over time, riot
became a distinct crime from treason, but remained true to its lineage as an
offense against the public by retaining public  [*1024]  terror as a necessary
component. n119 Despite this history, jurisdictions, including Maryland, n120
have taken significant steps to limit the public terror element, either by
abrogating it by statute, or by broadly interpreting it as a breach of the
public peace. n121

   1. Application of the Public Terror Element in Maryland

 Maryland courts consistently require proof of public terror, but inconsistently
apply the element. The Court of Appeals has addressed the issue of public terror
twice. In Kaefer, the court, without further explanation, accepted as sufficient
an indictment alleging that Kaefer breached the peace by making noises, tumults,
and disturbances. n122 The court narrowed this broad definition of public terror
in Cohen. In Cohen, the Court of Appeals articulated Maryland's rule for riot,
requiring tumultuous or violent activity to the terror of the public. n123 The
Cohen court then applied the rule and found that although Cohen had the right to
organize a strike and unionize employees, he had no right to use violent means
to disturb the public peace "or to create a reign of terror." n124 Thus, the
court affirmed Cohen's conviction. n125

   The Court of Special Appeals, in its jailhouse riot cases, expanded the
meaning of public terror to include situations where the public is not actually
terrorized. n126 In Briscoe, Briscoe unsuccessfully challenged his riot
conviction by arguing that the state could not meet the public terror
requirement because the acts were confined to the jailhouse, and there was no
evidence that anyone in the jailhouse was afraid. n127 The court rejected both
the legal and factual bases of these arguments. n128 First, as a factual matter,
the court found that the prisoners behaved in a violent and tumultuous manner by
smashing windows, burning buildings, and looting the commissary, and that this
[*1025]  activity terrorized every officer in Baltimore City who was called to
the jailhouse by radio. n129 Second, as a legal matter, the Briscoe court held
that there may be a riot even when no one is actually terrified, so long as the
act "tends to alarm and terrify law-abiding citizens in the peaceful exercise of
their constitutional rights and privileges." n130 The court reiterated this
notion two weeks later in McClelland v. State, n131 holding that a defendant's
identical argument in the same jailhouse riot lacked merit.

   2. The Public Terror Requirement in Other Jurisdictions

 Although many jurisdictions require a public disturbance component, n132 few
jurisdictions strictly require that the public actually be terrified by the
violent or unlawful activity. n133 Moreover, in states where riot is codified by
statute, the common law language of public terror is either nonexistent or
weakened and modified to "public disturbance" or to "causing a substantial risk
of public alarm." n134 Finally, in at least four jurisdictions without statutes,
state courts require a showing of "public terror" only when there is no evidence
that a group of three or more committed a violent or unlawful act. n135

   Few jurisdictions require actual public terror. However, in International
Wire Works v. Hanover Fire Insurance Co., n136 the Wisconsin Supreme Court found
no riot when vandals committed unlawful acts at night away from public view. In
Wire Works, a plaintiff sought recovery against his property insurance company
for riot protection when at least three vandals broke into a factory during the
night and intentionally destroyed valuable machinery. n137 Deciding the case for
the insurer, the court found that the common law definition of riot applied to
insurance claims, and held that a necessary element of riot is the actual
disturbance of persons other than those engaged in the  [*1026]  violent or
tumultuous act. n138 Thus, impliedly, the court denied coverage because the
public was not actually terrified. n139

   Wire Works is not representative of the modern statutory trend to either
entirely abrogate the "public terror" requirement or to substantially modify it.
States abrogating "public terror" often define riot simply as a certain number
of people engaging in violent or tumultuous conduct. n140 States that
statutorily modify the element generally do so by weakening the language from
"public terror" to "disturbing the public peace," n141 "grave risk of causing
public alarm," n142 or "risk of causing public terror." n143

   Even in states where public terror remains part of the statute, courts, like
the Briscoe court, often interpret the element as requiring no more than a
breach of the peace. n144 For example, in United States v. Bridgeman, n145 the
D.C. Circuit, in rejecting a prisoner's argument that his activity was out of
the public's view, interpreted "public disturbance" as "breach of the peace,"
and placed any activity threatening the security and tranquility that the law
affords individuals within the ambit of a public disturbance. n146 Similarly, in
Minnesota, another state with a statutory public disturbance requirement, n147
the Minnesota Supreme Court found that the repercussions of riot can disturb
[*1027]  the public peace even when the disturbance is neither seen nor heard.
n148

   At least four jurisdictions without riot statutes interpret the common law as
requiring public terror only when citizens tumultuously assemble, but do not
commit a violent or unlawful act. For example, in Commonwealth v. Runnels, n149
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court found that the in terrorem populi
element only applies when citizens assemble armed with weapons, but do not
commit any act. Tennessee and Indiana also follow this interpretation. n150 In
all, the majority of states either follow a broad "breach of the peace"
interpretation of public terror, or find the element nonessential when the
prosecution can produce evidence of violent or unlawful activity. n151

   D. Model Statutes: D.C. Code Section 22-1322 and 28 U.S.C. Section 2102

 The tumult of the late 1960s and early 1970s challenged Congress to modernize
riot legislation to give the federal government an effective tool to prosecute
violent protestors. n152 What followed - D.C. Code section 22-1322, and the
Federal Anti-Riot Act, 18 U.S.C. sections 2101-02 - were attempts by Congress to
codify riot law to permit United States Attorneys to prosecute riot by focusing
on the conduct of the actors. n153 This moved riot away from the common law
notion that prosecution must proceed through ancillary, prerequisite crimes such
as unlawful assembly. n154 These statutes have successfully withstood attacks on
a variety of constitutional fronts by remaining true to underlying common law
concepts, while respecting free speech and  [*1028]  providing clarity for riot
prosecution, and have been endorsed by state courts. n155

   D.C. Code section 22-1322 describes a riot as a public disturbance involving
an assembly of five or more persons, who "by tumultuous and violent conduct or
the threat thereof creates grave danger of damage or injury to property or
persons." n156 In Bridgeman, the D.C. Circuit discussed Congress's intent in
passing the statute. n157 The Bridgeman defendant challenged his conviction for
incitement to riot, in part, by arguing that because Congress only intended the
statute to apply to street riots, the common law element of public terror as
applied by the lower court to the jailhouse was insufficiently alleged and
proven. n158 In rejecting this argument, the court found that the statute's
primary purpose was to clarify riot and incitement to riot, offenses whose
meaning under the common law were uncertain. n159 The court further noted that
the Justice Department viewed D.C. Code section 22-1322 as a model local law
that "incorporates the basic thrust of the common law statutes found in many
jurisdictions and at the same time modernizes the law and takes cognizance of
the First Amendment." n160

   The Federal Anti-Riot Act, like the D.C. statute, defines riot in a modern
way. n161 Section 2102 of the Act defines riot as



    a public disturbance involving (1) an act ... of violence by one or more
persons part of an assemblage of three or more persons, which act or acts shall
constitute a clear and present danger of, or shall result in, damage or injury
to the property of any other person or to the person of any other individual or
(2) the threat thereof with the power of execution. n162



    At least one state court has called upon its own legislature to adopt
legislation similar to the Federal Anti-Riot Act. In State v.  [*1029]  Beasely,
n163 the Florida Supreme Court in dicta recommended that if the state were to
define riot by statute, it should adopt language similar to the Federal Anti-
Riot Act. n164

   III. The Court's Reasoning

 In Schlamp v. State, the Court of Appeals unanimously overturned the Court of
Special Appeals and the Circuit Court for Prince George's County, and acquitted
Schlamp of criminal riot. n165 The Court of Appeals defined riot as "three or
more persons 'unlawfully assembled to carry out a common purpose in such violent
or turbulent manner as to terrify others.'" n166 The court held that Schlamp's
group, although "boorish and obnoxious," was not unlawfully assembled, was not
organized for a common purpose, and did not engage in behavior that struck
terror or was likely to strike terror in the heart of the public. n167

   Judge Wilner began by noting that although many states have codified criminal
riot, Maryland remains one of the few jurisdictions that maintains riot as a
common law offense. n168 The court traced the roots of common law riot from
England. n169 Riot originated in the law of treason and later became unique as
an offense against the public peace rather than as an offense against any single
individual. n170 The court then explained that, as an offense against the peace,
riot became associated with unlawful assembly and rout. n171 Articulating the
three offenses as "pyramiding crimes," the court explained the common law
distinctions between unlawful assembly, rout, and riot. n172 The court also
addressed Hawkins's common law rule for criminal riot, which included promises
of mutual assistance and sufficient violence and tumult to terrorize the public.
n173

   The court found that despite a broad interpretation of riot by Hawkins and
other Eighteenth Century treatise writers, "the true gravamen of the offense was
planned and deliberate violent or tumultuous  [*1030]  behavior." n174 The court
cited Hawkins for this view, emphasizing his example that riot involved either
pre-arranged meetings to carry out a common unlawful or violent act, or
innocently gathered persons who confederate themselves into groups with promises
of mutual assistance to disturb the peace. n175

   The court also used the Hawkins treatise to interpret the public terror
requirement. n176 The court observed that riot at common law was not a crime
against injured persons or property, but that it was a crime against the public
peace. n177 Thus, the court observed that in every riot there must be some act
that will evoke public terror. n178

   Next, the court provided an overview of statutes codifying riot in other
states. The court found that although varied in wording and approach, there are
three common themes of state statutes: (1) a confederation of a certain number,
(2) tumultuous or violent conduct and (3) the instigation of public disturbance,
terror or alarm. n179

   Turning its attention to Maryland riot cases, the court discussed the
convictions in Kaefer v. State and Cohen v. State. Looking at Kaefer from the
lens of its common law rule, the court emphasized the Kaefer court's finding
that the state's indictment sufficiently alleged the necessary three elements
for riot. n180 The court then explained that the Cohen's indictment was
substantively equivalent to Kaefer's indictment because it properly alleged that
the taxi cab strikers unlawfully assembled with "great noise," and remained
together for fifteen minutes "to the great terror and disturbance" of those
nearby. n181 The court ended its discussion of precedent by addressing the Court
of Special Appeals's jailhouse riot cases. n182 Notably, the court acknowledged
Briscoe's holding that riot may lie when the activity is of a nature that tends
to terrify citizens, even if no one is actually terrified. n183

    [*1031]  Based on its consideration of common law and relevant precedent,
the court concluded that Schlamp and his comrades were not unlawfully assembled
for a common purpose because the aggression displayed was individualized and the
members of each group had not organized into groups before carrying out violent
acts. n184 The court also stressed that the group's activity failed to
sufficiently create public terror because prior to the stabbing there were
neither fights nor tumultuous behavior that was likely to strike terror into
anyone. n185 In concluding, the court observed that there was "at least a
manslaughter and possibly a murder, committed by someone, but there was not a
riot." n186

   IV. Analysis

 In Schlamp v. State, the Court of Appeals reversed the jury verdict and the
Court of Special Appeals, overturning Schlamp's ten-year riot sentence because
there was insufficient evidence of unlawful assembly or public terror. n187 In
reaching this conclusion, the court used the appropriate common law rule, n188
but interpreted the elements of unlawful assembly and public terror far too
rigidly. n189 First, the court's requirement that the actions of Schlamp's group
be "planned and deliberate" to constitute unlawful assembly n190 was a narrow
and potentially inaccurate characterization of Hawkins's description of the
element and ignored Blackstone's definition entirely. n191 Second, the court's
strict interpretation of unlawful assembly deviated substantially from Briscoe
and the modern trend in other jurisdictions. n192 Third, though the court
acknowledged that Briscoe required a mere public disturbance to satisfy the
public terror element, the court's inability to find "public terror" in this
case implies an exceedingly strict reading of the public terror element that is
inconsistent with Briscoe and the majority of other jurisdictions. n193

    [*1032]  In so strictly interpreting these elements, the Court of Appeals of
Maryland has unnecessarily burdened Maryland riot law with unclear common law
concepts that are difficult to prosecute and to apply. It also ignores the trend
set by the federal government and other jurisdictions to modernize riot law by
focusing prosecutions on the conduct of the actors. n194 Moreover, the court's
nuanced decision in Schlamp should urge the Maryland legislature to clarify the
state's riot law by passing a statute similar to section 2102 of the Federal
Anti-Riot Act or D.C. Code section 22-1322. n195 Such an action should withstand
constitutional scrutiny, create consistent application by trial courts, and give
prosecutors a usable and predictable tool to combat group-organized crime. n196

   A. The Court of Appeals Correctly Determined the Three-Part Common Law Rule
for Riot

 In the absence of a statute, the Schlamp court was bound by English common law
under Article V of the Maryland Constitution and its own precedent in Kaefer and
Cohen. Cohen clearly establishes that the Maryland common law interpretation of
riot consists of "three or more persons ... unlawfully assembled to carry out a
common purpose in such violent or turbulent manner as to terrify the others."
n197 Furthermore, though Blackstone, Hawkins, and other common law treatises
differ in their approach to each element, modern courts generally recognize
these three elements as common law riot. n198 Thus, it was not within the power
of the court to usurp legislative power and remove the elements of unlawful
assembly or public terror from the definition of riot. n199 The court,
therefore, correctly interpreted and applied Article V of the Maryland
Constitution when applying the rule for riot articulated in Cohen.

   B. The Schlamp Court's Strict Interpretation of Common Law Unlawful Assembly
Was Unreasonably Narrow

 The Schlamp court's strict interpretation of common law unlawful assembly was
unreasonably narrow in light of English treatises and trends in other
jurisdictions. First, the court relied almost exclusively  [*1033]  on Hawkins
when strictly interpreting unlawful assembly as requiring "promises of mutual
assistance," but failed to distinguish the present case from Hawkins's
hypothetical, n200 which dealt with individuals not previously associated with
one another. n201 Second, the court disregarded Blackstone's interpretation,
which requires no showing of association or purposeful assembly when a group
executes a violent or unlawful act. n202 Finally, the court's interpretation of
unlawful assembly deviates substantially from Maryland cases and trends in other
jurisdictions, which have abrogated or judicially weakened the unlawful assembly
element because it is an impractical method for proving riot. n203

   1. The Schlamp Court's Interpretation of Unlawful Assembly as Requiring
Planned and Deliberate Behavior is too Strict in Light of the Common Law
Treatises

 Though the Schlamp court properly required unlawful assembly in accordance with
Article V of the Maryland Constitution, the court's decision to require planned
and deliberate activity is a narrow interpretation of Hawkins and ignores
Blackstone's definition. n204 The court's interpretation of unlawful assembly
for the purposes of riot focuses on Hawkins's analysis of "How far the intention
with which such persons assemble together must be unlawful." n205 In this
section, Hawkins describes a fight that unexpectedly erupts from an originally
innocent gathering, and finds that those engaging in the fight are not guilty of
riot unless they group themselves together and promise to assist each other
before engaging in an unlawful, violent, or tumultuous act. n206 From this
example the Schlamp court infers that "planned and deliberate" unlawful or
violent activity, or organized group confrontation, is essential for riot. n207

   The Schlamp court's reading of the Hawkins hypothetical as requiring "planned
and deliberate" activity is a narrow and potentially inaccurate characterization
of the Hawkins standard. Hawkins sets  [*1034]  the scene of his hypothetical
brawl in a public forum, such as a fair or marketplace, where those who are
gathered are not yet an organized group, but happen upon a sudden quarrel. n208
Hawkins then explains that in such a situation, if one participates in the fight
without confederating himself with a group, he is only guilty of affray; if he
confederates with promises of mutual assistance, then he is guilty of riot. n209
Thus, essential to Hawkins's hypothetical, which teases out the distinction
between riot and affray, is that individuals are not yet associated with any
particular group. n210

   Because Schlamp's group was confederated before the violent and tumultuous
act in question, Schlamp is distinct from the Hawkins hypothetical. After
meeting at a friend's house, Schlamp's group set out to Dickinson Avenue to
attend parties. n211 Once there, the group verbally confronted partygoers, which
caused Scott Ehrlich to ask them to leave his party. n212 By the time the fight
broke out, Schlamp's group had functioned as a unit for at least several hours.
n213 Furthermore, when Schlamp confronted Brandon Malstrom about the allegedly
stolen cell phone, at least three members of the pre-confederated group
exhibited an intent to join the violent and unlawful disturbance: Davis verbally
confronted Brandon and demanded to search him for a cell phone and closed in
around Brandon while Fournier held him; n214 Fournier placed Brandon in a
chokehold; n215 Schlamp also took a swing at Brandon and berated him. n216
Nevertheless, the Schlamp court found no unlawful assembly because the group's
confrontation was not organized, pre-planned, or deliberate. n217 By requiring
evidence of organized and planned confrontation when the group had already
functioned as a unit for several hours, the Schlamp court took an exceptionally
narrow view of Hawkins's hypothetical and overlooked its purpose, which was to
distinguish a riot from an affray when members of a fight had no predetermined
connection with one another.

    [*1035]  Likewise, the court's narrow view of unlawful assembly is
inconsistent with Blackstone's interpretation of riot, which does not require a
planned or deliberate common purpose. n218 Blackstone does not construe unlawful
assembly as a prerequisite to riot, but defines each crime separately. n219 For
Blackstone, the crime of unlawful assembly requires planned and deliberate
behavior because without an executed act, plans and deliberations are the only
evidence that an assembly is unlawful. n220 An unlawful act is not necessary for
riot, however, because riot only occurs when a group takes the next step and
executes such an act. n221 Presumably, it is based on this evidentiary
distinction that Blackstone explicitly finds that a riot can occur, "either with
or without a common cause or quarrel." n222 Put another way, Blackstone requires
only that the actor has the intent to join the group in the riotous activity;
the actor need not share with the group a specific intent to carry out a
preconceived common plan. Applying the Blackstone standard to Schlamp, Schlamp
began the fight with the victim, Fournier put the victim in a chokehold, and
Davis encouraged them and closed in on the victim in a threatening way. n223
Because each manifested an intent to join the violent and unlawful activity
through his actions, each unlawfully assembled for a common purpose. The Schlamp
court, by requiring a "planned and deliberate" group purpose, ignored
Blackstone's interpretation and instead chose to rely solely on a narrow reading
of Hawkins.

   2. The Schlamp Court's Narrow Interpretation of Unlawful Assembly is also
Inconsistent with the Persuasive Authority of the Court of Special Appeals and
other Jurisdictions

 The Schlamp court's decision to narrowly construe Hawkins's common law standard
and to require planned and deliberate activity is inconsistent with Briscoe and
Gibson. n224 In Briscoe, the defendant  [*1036]  challenged his conviction in a
jailhouse riot, arguing that the state did not allege a specific intent to riot
in his indictment. n225 The court, in rejecting the defendant's challenge, found
that specific intent is not necessary to establish riot, as it is not essential,
and a previous agreement need not exist. n226 The court held that the only
intent needed is the intent to join or encourage the riot. n227

   Four years later in Gibson, the Court of Special Appeals applied the standard
from Briscoe and upheld a conviction in a jailhouse riot without explicitly
finding any proof that inmates had planned, deliberated, or confederated for the
unlawful purpose of rioting. n228 In short, the most recent cases decided in
Maryland - Briscoe and Gibson - interpreted unlawful assembly in accordance with
Blackstone and focused only on whether the defendant intended to engage in a
riotous act; n229 they did not require evidence that the defendant's acts be
preconceived, planned, or deliberate. n230 The Schlamp court's decision to
require evidence of "planned and deliberate" confederation not only narrowly
interprets the common law, n231 but deviates substantially from the latest
interpretations from the Maryland judiciary.

   The Schlamp court's narrow reconfiguration of unlawful assembly also
contrasts sharply with trends in other jurisdictions - which either entirely
omit unlawful assembly or apply the Briscoe standard. n232 Eighteen states, the
District of Columbia, and the federal government have completely removed the
language of unlawful assembly for a common purpose from riot law. n233 Even
Indiana, a state that has retained the  [*1037]  language of unlawful assembly
in its statutory text, interprets unlawful assembly analogously to Briscoe,
requiring only the intent to participate in the riot. n234 Likewise, New
Hampshire and Utah retain unlawful assembly in their statutes, but mitigate the
difficulty of proving the element by making it optional. n235 In all, at least
twenty-four United States jurisdictions have abrogated the unlawful assembly
element from riot, making the Court of Appeals's interpretation in Schlamp a
significant step back towards the malleable and difficult-to-prosecute common
law definition.

   C. The Schlamp Court's Unwillingness to Find Public Terror Suggests a
Diversion from the Widely Accepted Public Disturbance Interpretation

 Despite the Schlamp court's affirmation of the Briscoe standard of public
terror, the court's inability to find evidence of a public disturbance suggests
a return to an antiquated notion of public terror - where prosecutors must prove
that the public was actually terrified. n236 This view requires a level of proof
previously unnecessary in Maryland under Briscoe and Gibson. It also breaks with
the national trend of moving riot law away from elusive common law elements,
distinguishing Maryland from the majority of other jurisdictions.

   In Maryland, under Briscoe, an act sufficiently terrorizes the public when it
"tends to alarm and terrify law-abiding citizens in the peaceful exercise of
their constitutional rights and privileges." n237  [*1038]  Likewise, a victim's
terror in being threatened with violence can constitute fear sufficient to meet
the public terror requirement. n238

   In Schlamp, Fournier held Brandon Malstrom from behind and Schlamp berated
him and swung at him. n239 Davis, likewise, engaged in verbal taunts and
approached Malstrom in a threatening way as he closed in on him. n240
Furthermore, the group had functioned as a unit throughout the night causing a
number of disturbances at Dickinson Avenue parties, and each disturbance,
including the fight with Brandon Malstrom, occurred in a public forum. n241
Thus, if the court considered the victim's apprehension under the public terror
calculus, the jury's verdict was on sound footing. But even if the victim's fear
is not considered under the public terror requirement, and the court solely
applies Briscoe, it was reasonable for a jury to find that a battery on a public
street, which led to the stabbing death of a college student, would disturb the
peace and tranquility that law-abiding citizens feel in the University of
Maryland community. n242 In short, although the court acknowledged the Briscoe
standard for public terror, its inability to find sufficient evidence to support
a jury finding of public terror in this case implies a far narrower
interpretation of the element than previously required.

   The court's narrow interpretation of public terror is likewise unreasonable
in light of trends in other jurisdictions that generally broaden or abrogate the
public terror requirement. At least twenty-four states broadly interpret the
public terror requirement as breach of the public peace or public disturbance
similar to Briscoe. n243 Of the  [*1039]  remaining states, some have deleted
the language of public disturbance entirely, n244 while others have broadened
the language to include the creation of a substantial or grave risk of public
terror. n245 Even other common law jurisdictions have modernized their riot law
by reinterpreting the public terror requirement, holding that it only applies
when assembled citizens are armed, but do not commit any violent acts. n246
Given this clear trend in U.S. jurisdictions to move away from a strict
application of the public terror requirement, the Schlamp court should not have
narrowed Briscoe's scope by overturning the jury's finding of public terror.

   D. The Schlamp Court's Nuanced Interpretation of the Common Law Should Urge
the Maryland Legislature to Adopt a Conduct-Based Riot Statute Similar to the
Federal Anti-Riot Act or D.C. Code Section 22-1322

 The Schlamp court's narrow interpretation of the unlawful assembly and public
terror requirements elevates antiquated common law concepts over a common sense
understanding of riot, and should urge the Maryland legislature to modernize and
codify riot law. n247 Legislatures have adopted a balancing approach when
adopting modern riot law statutes. n248 On the one hand, a clear desire to
abrogate confusing, prerequisite common law crimes, such as unlawful assembly,
is key for effective prosecution and consistent judicial application. n249 On
the other hand, avoiding the complete preemption of common law standards is
desirable, as such an act may be found unconstitutional by state supreme courts.
n250 Taking these factors into consideration, an all-encompassing, modernized
riot statute similar to  [*1040]  section 2102 of the Federal Anti-Riot Act or
D.C. Code section 22-1322 would provide Maryland with a suitable modern riot
statute that retains basic common law concepts without relying on confusing
common law terms of art. n251 Such a statute would focus Maryland courts on the
conduct of the actors rather than on those actors' hard-to-determine
preconceived plans or the intangible terror of the public. This, in turn, will
create a more understandable riot law that will be an effective tool for
prosecutors while promoting consistent application by trial courts. n252

   V. Conclusion

 Although the Court of Appeals was bound to follow precedent and had little
choice but to apply the elements of unlawful assembly and public terror, n253
its mandate that "planned and deliberate" violent behavior must precede a riot,
n254 and its strict application of the "public terror" requirement deviated
substantially from Briscoe v. State and trends in other jurisdictions. n255
Furthermore, the court's narrow interpretation placed undue emphasis on
malleable common law elements while ignoring the common sense approach of
focusing on the conduct of the actors. n256 The Maryland legislature should view
the court's decision in Schlamp as an opportunity to modernize the State's riot
law by adopting a statutory definition similar to 18 U.S.C. section 2102 (a), or
D.C. Code section 22-1322. n257 By defining riot in this conduct-based manner,
Maryland can retain basic common law concepts, such as public disturbance, while
providing a clear, effective tool for prosecutors and enabling trial courts to
consistently apply the law. n258

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesRiot, Rout &
Unlawful AssemblyElementsCriminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous
OffensesRiot, Rout & Unlawful AssemblyPenaltiesGovernmentsCourtsCommon Law

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  390 Md. 724, 891 A.2d 327 (2006).





n2.  Id. at 725, 891 A.2d at 328.





n3.  Id. at 725-26, 891 A.2d at 328.





n4.  Id. at 737, 891 A.2d at 335.





n5.  Id.





n6.  See infra Part IV.A.





n7.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 732, 891 A.2d at 332.





n8.  Id. at 737, 891 A.2d at 328.





n9.  See infra Part IV.B-C.





n10.  See infra Part IV.D.





n11.  See infra part IV.D.





n12.  See infra Part IV.D.





n13.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 726, 891 A.2d at 328.





n14.  Id.





n15.  The record is confused as to the actual name of the street. The Court of
Appeals uses the name Dickerson Avenue.  Id. at 726, 891 A.2d 328-29. The actual
name of the street is Dickinson Avenue. See Google Maps,
http://maps.google.com/maps?oi=map&q= Dickinson+Avenue,+College+Park,+MD (last
visited Dec. 4. 2007).





n16.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 726, 891 A.2d at 328-29.





n17.  Id. at 726, 891 A.2d at 329.





n18.  Id. Fournier testified that he and Schlamp drank between fifteen and
twenty bottles of beer that day. Id.





n19.  Id.





n20.  Id.





n21.  Id. at 726-27, 891 A.2d at 329. Testimony indicated that Schlamp and
members of the group were consuming grain alcohol at this time.  Id. at 727, 891
A.2d at 329.





n22.  Id. at 726-27, 891 A.2d at 329.





n23.  Id.





n24.  Id. at 727, 891 A.2d at 329.





n25.  Id. Davis described the knife as "big and sharp, with a serrated edge."
Id.





n26.  Id.





n27.  Schlamp v. State, 161 Md. App. 280, 287-88, 868 A.2d 914, 918 (2005).





n28.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 727, 891 A.2d at 329.





n29.  Id.





n30.  Id.





n31.  Id. No one, in fact, had anyone else's cell phone. Id.





n32.  Id. at 728, 891 A.2d at 330.





n33.  Id. Conheim testified that Davis was present and seemed to be "favoring
his hip [like he was] reaching for something." Id.





n34.  Id.





n35.  Id.





n36.  Id.





n37.  Id.





n38.  Id.





n39.  Id. at 725, 891 A.2d at 328. The State also charged Davis with "first and
second degree murder, first and second degree assault, riot, and carrying a
dangerous weapon openly with intent to injure." Id. at 725 n.1, 891 A.2d at 328
n.1.





n40.  Id. at 725, 891 A.2d at 328.





n41.  Id. In mandating a ten-year sentence for riot, the trial court recognized
that it exceeded the sentencing guidelines; however, it justified its decision
by finding that the harm was excessive and that without Schlamp's threats and
aggressive behavior, the circumstances leading to Malstrom's death would not
have been set in motion.  Schlamp v. State, 161 Md. App. 280, 298-99, 868 A.2d
914, 924-25 (2005).





n42.  Schlamp, 161 Md. App. at 285, 868 A.2d at 917. Schlamp also challenged the
ten-year sentence as cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth
Amendment. Id.





n43.  Id.





n44.  Id. at 295, 868 A.2d at 922.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Id. at 296-97, 868 A.2d at 923.





n47.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 725-26, 891 A.2d at 328.





n48.  Id. at 725, 729, 891 A.2d at 328, 330. The Court of Appeals has only
reviewed two common law riot cases in the past: Kaefer v. State, 143 Md. 151,
122 A. 30 (1923), and Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 195 A. 532 (1937). Schlamp,
390 Md. at 729, 891 A.2d at 330.





n49.  See Cohen, 173 Md. at 221, 195 A. at 534 (articulating the three-part
common law definition of riot as the Maryland standard).





n50.  See infra Part II.A.





n51.  See infra Part II.B.





n52.  See infra Part II.C.





n53.  Md. Const. Decl. of Rts. art. 5, ("That the Inhabitants of Maryland are
entitled to the Common Law of England ... and to the benefit of such of the
English statutes as existed on [July 4, 1776].").





n54.  See infra Part IV.D.





n55.  4 William Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 146 (1769)
(noting also that riots and unlawful assemblies must have three or more
persons); see also 1 William Hawkins, a Treatise of the Pleas of the Crown 293
(6th ed. 1788) (requiring three persons for riot); 5 William Holdsworth, A
History of English Law 198 (1924) (noting that the "rule of three" originated
with the Court of Star Chamber).





n56.  E.g., Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937).





n57.  Some jurisdictions keep the common law rule of three or more persons. See,
e.g., 18 U.S.C. § 2102 (2000); Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.71 (West 2006).
Massachusetts, a common law jurisdiction like Maryland, also requires that three
persons be assembled for riot.  Commonwealth v. Berry, 71 Mass. (5 Gray) 94
(1862). Other jurisdictions have differing number requirements. For example,
California requires two or more persons, Cal. Penal Code § 404 (West 2006), D.C.
requires five or more persons, D.C. Code § 22-1322 (2006), Connecticut requires
six or more persons, Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175 (2006), and Texas requires seven
or more persons. Tex. Penal Code Ann. § 42.02 (Vernon 2006). Less commonly, the
Indiana legislature has designated no minimum number. Ind. Code § 35-45-1-2
(2006).





n58.  See, e.g., N.Y. Penal Law § 240.05 (McKinney 2006) (specifying four or
more persons for second degree riot, and ten or more persons for first degree
riot).





n59.  Blackstone, supra note 55, at 143 (citing 1 Geo. I c. 5 (1714)).





n60.  E.g., Craig v. State, 114 S.W.2d 1073, 1074 (Ark. 1938); Loomis v.
Edwards, 56 S.E.2d 183 (Ga. Ct. App. 1949).





n61.  Cohen, 173 Md. at 221-22, 195 A. at 534.





n62.  173 Md. 216, 195 A. 532 (1937).





n63.  Id. at 220-21, 195 A.2d at 533.





N64.  Id.





n65.  71 Mass. (5 Gray) 93 (1862).





n66.  Cohen, 173 Md. at 222, 195 A. at 534.





n67.  See, e.g., Rollin M. Perkins & Ronald N. Boyce, Criminal Law 483 (3d ed.
1982).





n68.  See Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146.





n69.  See infra Part II.B.2.





n70.  See infra Part II.B.3.





n71.  Perkins & Boyce, supra note 67, at 483.





n72.  Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146; Hawkins, supra note 55, at 297. This
appears to be a generally accepted standard today as well.





n73.  Perkins & Boyce, supra note 67, at 483.





n74.  E.g., Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146; Hawkins, supra note 55, at 297.





n75.  Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Hawkins, supra note 55, at 293.





n78.  Id. at 294-95.





n79.  143 Md. 151, 122 A. 30 (1923).





n80.  Id. at 153, 157, 122 A. at 31, 33.





n81.  See id. at 156-57, 122 A. at 32-34. Kaefer challenged his riot and
unlawful assembly convictions by arguing that the State failed to allege the
requisite elements in the indictment.  Id. at 155, 122 A. at 32.





n82.  Id.





n83.  173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937) ("The assembly must be unlawful,
else there is no riot, and the unlawful assembly must be charged in the
indictment.").





n84.  Id. at 220, 227, 195 A. at 533, 537.





n85.  Id. at 227-28, 195 A. at 537.





n86.  Id. at 225, 195 A. at 536.





n87.  Id. at 228, 195 A. at 537.





n88.  4 Md. App. 18, 240 A.2d 769 (1968).





n89.  Id. at 19, 240 A.2d at 770.





n90.  Id. at 30, 240 A.2d at 776.





n91.  See id. for a full explanation of McClelland's justification defense.
McClelland also argued that his acts did not terrorize the public.  Id. at
30-31, A.2d at 777.





n92.  Id.





n93.  Id. The court carefully noted that McClelland's degree of leadership was
only relevant in so far as it helped to show his involvement and planning of the
riot generally.  Id. at 30, 240 A.2d at 777.





n94.  See id., 240 A.2d at 777.





n95.  See, e.g., Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 228, 195 A. 532, 537 (1937)
(finding the unlawful assembly element satisfied when the defendant planned a
taxi driver riot but did not participate in the riot).





n96.  3 Md. App. 462, 240 A.2d 109 (1968).





n97.  Id. at 465, 240 A.2d at 111.





n98.  Id. at 467, 240 A.2d at 112.





n99.  Id.





n100.  Id. at 467-68, 240 A.2d at 112. The Briscoe court found that an
indictment need not allege intent since it is a matter of proof.  Id. at 468,
240 A.2d at 112.





n101.  Id. at 467, 240 A.2d at 112. The Briscoe rule stands in stark contrast to
the Court of Appeals's narrow interpretation of Hawkins, and appears to accord
more with Blackstone's articulation of riot. See infra Part IV.B.2.





n102.  Gibson v. State, 17 Md. App. 246, 300 A.2d 692 (1973).





n103.  Id. at 262, 300 A.2d at 700.





n104.  Id.





n105.  Id. at 261-62, 300 A.2d at 700-01. In fact, there was additional evidence
that one inmate intervened on an officer's behalf and another inmate took an
officer to receive first-aid treatment.  Id. at 262, 300 A.2d at 700. This
evidence may have further suggested to the court that the inmates did not have a
common intent to riot.





n106.  Briscoe, 3 Md. App. at 467-68, 240 A.2d at 112 (1968) (quoting 77 C.J.S.
Riot § 6 (1994)).





n107.  D.C. Code § 22-1322(a) (2001); see also infra notes 156-160 and
accompanying text.





n108.  N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (1996); Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-101,
(1)(a)(b)(c) (2003).





n109.  See, e.g., Tex. Penal Code Ann. § 42.02 (Vernon 2003). But see Henry v.
State, 149 S.W.2d 115, 118 (Tex. Crim. App. 1941) (holding, without explanation,
that riot can have no meaning under the statute without the element of unlawful
assembly).





n110.  Ind. Code Ann. § 35-45-1-2 (LexisNexis 2004).





n111.  2 Ind. 273 (1873).





n112.  Id. at 274-75.





n113.  Id.





n114.  Id.





n115.  139 N.E. 659, 663 (Ind. 1923).





n116.  Bolin v. State, 139 N.E. 659, 663 (Ind. 1923) ("The authorities cited by
counsel from other jurisdictions where the definition of riot embraces an
unlawful assembling together as an essential element of the offense are not in
point.").





n117.  1 Edward East, A Treatise of the Pleas of the Crown 73 (1806).





n118.  Id.





n119.  See Hawkins, supra note 55, at 293-94. Hawkins describes riot, in part,
as when three or more people who engage in a violent and turbulent act to the
terror of the people, regardless of whether the intended act is lawful or
unlawful. Id. But see Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146 (omitting any language
of public terror and describing riot as three or more persons who engage in "an
unlawful act of violence," or do a lawful act in a "violent and tumultuous
manner").





n120.  See infra Part II.C.1.





n121.  See infra Part II.C.2.





n122.  Kaefer v. State, 143 Md. 151, 155, 157, 122 A. 30, 31, 34 (1923).





n123.  Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937).





n124.  Id. at 228, 195 A. at 537.





n125.  Id.





n126.  See, e.g., Briscoe v. State, 3 Md. App. 462, 468-69, 240 A.2d 109, 113
(1968) ("There may be a riot, even though no person or persons are actually
terrified ... .").





n127.  Id.





n128.  Id.





n129.  Id. at 468, 240 A.2d at 113.





n130.  Id. at 469, 240 A.2d at 113.





n131.  4 Md. App. 18, 240 A.2d 769 (1968).





n132.  See, e.g., State v. Beasley, 317 So. 2d 750, 753 (Fla. 1975) (finding
that even if the legislature defined riot by statute, a breach of the peace
would be required by common law).





n133.  But see Int'l Wire Works v. Hanover Fire Ins. Co., 283 N.W. 292 (Wis.
1939), discussed infra notes 136-139 and accompanying text.





n134.  See infra notes 141-151 and accompanying text.





n135.  See infra notes 149-150 and accompanying text.





n136.  283 N.W. 292, 294 (Wis. 1939).





n137.  Id. at 293.





n138.  Id. at 293-94.





n139.  Id. at 294 ("No riot exists in the absence of publicity at the time of
the violent or tumultuous acts.").





n140.  See supra note 57 (describing the different number of persons required
for riot in various states).





n141.  See, e.g., D.C. Code § 22-1322(a) (2001) ("A riot in the District of
Columbia is a public disturbance involving an assemblage of 5 or more persons
which by tumultuous and violent conduct or the threat thereof creates grave
danger of damage or injury to property or persons.").





n142.  See, e.g., Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 53a-176 (West 2001) (using the
language "grave risk of causing public alarm"); N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1
(1996) (making risk of public alarm one of several possible ways to prove riot).





n143.  See, e.g., Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. § 752.541 (West 2004) (defining riot as
"5 or more persons, acting in concert to wrongfully engage in violent conduct
and thereby intentionally or recklessly cause or create a serious risk of
causing public terror or alarm").





n144.  Compare United States v. Bridgeman, 523 F.2d 1099, 1114-15 (D.C. Cir.
1975) (defining breach of the peace as "tranquility enjoyed by a community when
good order reigns amongst its members"), with Briscoe v. State, 3 Md. App. 462,
469, 240 A.2d 109, 113 (1968) (defining public terror as that which "tends to
alarm and terrify law-abiding citizens in the peaceful exercise of their
constitutional rights and privileges").





n145.  523 F.2d 1099 (D.C. Cir. 1975).





n146.  Bridgeman, 523 F.2d at 1114. The D.C. Circuit also noted that Congress
created the D.C. law as a model for modernized riot legislation with the purpose
of removing antiquated common law obstructions.  Id. at 1113-14; see infra Parts
IV.C-D.





n147.  Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.71 (West 2003).





n148.  State v. Winkels, 283 N.W. 763, 764 (Minn. 1939).





n149.  10 Mass. (9 Tyng) 518, 519 (1813) (citing Lord Holt's treatise on English
Common Law).





n150.  See, e.g., State v. Whitesides, 31 Tenn. (1 Swan) 88, 89 (1851); Thayer
v. State, 11 Ind. 287, 288 (1858) ("We think it was not necessary to allege that
the act was to the terror ... .").





n151.  See United States v. Bridgeman, 523 F.2d 1099, 1115 (D.C. Cir. 1975).
Modern courts' interpretation of the public terror requirement recalls the
classic philosophical question, "if a tree falls in the forest, does it make a
sound?" On one hand, some courts require that the public actually be afraid of,
or hear, the riotous activity. E.g., Int'l Wire Works v. Hanover Fire Ins. Co.,
283 N.W. 292, 294 (Wis. 1939) (denying riot insurance when no one was present to
witness the unlawful activity). On the other hand, many courts hold that if the
public is naturally apt to be afraid, even if they are not present and capable
of being afraid, riot still lies. E.g., Bridgeman, 523 F.2d at 1115; Briscoe v.
State, 3 Md. App. 462, 469, 240 A.2d 109, 114 (1968).





n152.  Allan L. Schwartz, Annotation, Validity, Construction, and Application of
Federal Anti-Riot Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C.S.§§2101-02), 22 A.L.R. Fed. 256, § 2
(1975).





n153.  Id.





n154.  See infra notes 156-160 and accompanying text.





n155.  See infra notes 161-164 and accompanying text.





n156.  D.C. Code § 22-1322 (2006), previously D.C. Code § 22-1122 (2001).





n157.  523 F.2d 1099, 1114 (D.C. Cir. 1975).





n158.  Id. at 1113.





n159.  Id. Thus, the Bridgeman court held that Congress intended the law to
apply to the streets and jailhouses equally.  Id. at 1114.





n160.  Id. at 1114.





n161.  See 18 U.S.C. § 2102 (2000). The forthcoming discussion is limited to §
2102. 18 U.S.C. § 2101 significantly limits the practicality of the Federal
Anti-Riot Act, and places very real obstacles in the way of effective
prosecution. Schwartz, supra note 152, § 2[a]. These practical problems stem
from the fact that federal riot jurisdiction is predicated upon the Commerce
Clause and interstate travel. Id.; see § 2101(a).





n162.  18 U.S.C. § 2102 (2000). There have been various constitutional
challenges to the Federal Anti-Riot Act, but none have succeeded. See Schwartz,
supra note 152,§§3-4.





n163.  317 So. 2d 750 (Fla. 1975).





n164.  Id. at 753. Florida has a riot statute, but the statute fails to offer a
definition. See Fla. Stat. Ann. § 870.01(2) (West 2000) ("All persons guilty of
a riot, or of inciting or encouraging a riot, shall be guilty of a felony of the
third degree ... .").





n165.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 737, 891 A.2d at 335.





n166.  Id. (quoting Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937)).





n167.  Id.





n168.  Id. at 729, 891 A.2d at 330.





n169.  Id. at 729-30, 891 A.2d at 330-31.





n170.  Id. at 730, 891 A.2d at 331.





n171.  Id.





n172.  Id. at 731, 891 A.2d at 332 (citing Perkins & Boyce, supra note 67).





n173.  Id. at 731-32, 891 A.2d at 332-33.





n174.  Id. at 732, 891 A.2d at 332.





n175.  Id. (citing Hawkins, supra note 55, at 514).





n176.  Id. at 732-33, 891 A.2d at 332-33.





n177.  Id.





n178.  Id. ("For every offence must be laid to be done in terrorem populi."
(quoting Hawkins, supra note 55, at 515)).





n179.  Id. at 733, 891 A.2d at 333. The elements of the offense nonetheless vary
by jurisdiction, as some require or omit a showing of actual terror, an unlawful
act, or injury to a person or property. Id.





n180.  Id. at 733-35, 891 A.2d at 333-34 (citing Kaefer v. State, 143 Md. 151,
153-55, 122 A. 30, 31-32 (1923)).





n181.  Id. at 734, 891 A.2d at 334. The court emphasized that riot only requires
the participation of three or more people in the tumultuous or violent act, not
that all persons involved are individually named in the indictment. Id. at 734,
891 A.2d at 334; Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937).





n182.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 735-37, 891 A.2d at 334-35.





n183.  Id. at 736, 891 A.2d at 335.





n184.  Id. at 737, 891 A.2d at 335.





n185.  Id. The court noted that the group's aggression before the incident was
verbal, involved no destruction of property, and did not result in any reports
of excessive noise. Id.





n186.  Id.





n187.  Id. at 737, 891 A.2d at 335.





n188.  See infra Part IV.A.





n189.  See infra Parts IV.B-C.





n190.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 732, 891 A.2d at 332.





n191.  See infra Part IV.B.1.





n192.  See infra Part IV.B.2.





n193.  See infra Part IV.C.





n194.  See infra Part IV.D.





n195.  See infra Part IV.D.





n196.  See infra Part IV.D.





n197.  Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 221, 195 A. 532, 534 (1937).





n198.  77 C.J.S. Riot § 1 (2006).





n199.  See State v. Beasley, 317 So. 2d 750, 753 (Fla. 1975) (noting that it is
within the state legislature's power to consider defining riot differently from
the common law).





n200.  Hawkins, supra note 55, at 294.





n201.  See infra notes 204-217 and accompanying text.





n202.  See infra notes 218-237 and accompanying text.





n203.  See infra notes 224-235 and accompanying text.





n204.  See Schlamp, 390 Md. at 731-32, 891 A.2d at 331-32. Despite the fact that
the court quotes directly from Blackstone, it gives little weight to this
quotation in its analysis.





n205.  See id. at 732, 891 A.2d at 332 (citing Hawkins, supra note 55, at 294).
The court's treatment of unlawful assembly is brief. The court merely states the
rule that the crux of the offense is planned and deliberate behavior and then
cites Hawkins's example. See id.





n206.  Hawkins, supra note 55, at 294-95.





n207.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 732, 737, 891 A.2d at 332, 335.





n208.  Hawkins, supra note 55, at 294.





n209.  Id.





n210.  Id.





n211.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 726-27, 891 A.2d at 329.





n212.  Id. at 727, 891 A.2d at 329.





n213.  See Schlamp v. State, 161 Md. App. 280, 295, 868 A.2d 914, 922 (2005)
(describing the group as "functioning as a continuing unit throughout the
evening").





n214.  Id. at 286, 868 A.2d at 917.





n215.  Id.





n216.  Id.





n217.  Schlamp, 390 Md. at 737, 891 A.2d at 335.





n218.  See Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146.





n219.  Id.





n220.  Id.; cf.  Schlamp v. State, 161 Md. App. 280, 295, 868 A.2d 914, 923
(2005) (describing the difficulty of proving the common purpose element of riot
).





n221.  Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146.





n222.  Id.





n223.  Schlamp, 161 Md. App. at 295-96, 868 A.2d at 923.





n224.  Briscoe v. State, 3 Md. App. 462, 240 A.2d 109 (1968); Gibson v. State,
17 Md. App. 246, 300 A.2d 692 (1973). The decisions in Kaefer, Cohen, and
McClelland did not reach the issue of whether a preconceived common plan is
necessary to constitute a riot. In Kaefer, the court accepted the indictment as
alleging the proper elements of riot without explanation.  Kaefer v. State, 143
Md. 151, 157, 122 A. 30, 32-34 (1923). In Cohen, the conviction was predicated
completely on a preconceived plan, as Cohen was indicted for inciting a riot but
did not actually participate in the riot.  Cohen v. State, 173 Md. 216, 228, 195
A. 532, 537 (1937). Likewise, in McClelland, there was ample evidence of a
preconceived common plan, as McClelland set fires to signal the start of the
riot.  McClelland v. State, 4 Md. App. 18, 30, 240 A.2d 769, 776 (1968). Thus,
before Schlamp, Briscoe and Gibson stood as the only Maryland cases in which the
court was called upon to decide riot without evidence of a common, deliberate or
pre-formed group intent.





n225.  Briscoe, 3 Md. App. at 465, 240 A.2d at 111.





n226.  Id. at 467, 240 A.2d at 112.





n227.  Id. at 467-68, 240 A.2d at 112.





n228.  Gibson, 17 Md. App. at 261-62, 300 A.2d at 700.





n229.  Compare Briscoe, 3 Md. App. at 467, 240 A.2d at 112 (finding mutual
assistance unnecessary and holding that the only intent necessary is the intent
to join the riot), and Gibson, 17 Md. App. at 261, 300 A.2d at 700 (same), with
Blackstone, supra note 55, at 146 (finding that no pre-established common cause
or quarrel is necessary for a riot).





n230.  See Schlamp, 390 Md. at 732, 891 A.2d 332.





n231.  See supra Part IV.B.1.





n232.  See, e.g., United States v. Bridgeman, 523 F.2d 1099, 1113 (D.C. Cir.
1975) (finding that the D.C. riot statute was created by the legislature as an
all-encompassing law to eliminate reliance on common law offenses, such as
unlawful assembly); infra Part IV.D.





n233.  Ala. Code § 13A-11-3 (LexisNexis 2005); Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100
(LexisNexis 2006); Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2001); Ark. Code Ann. §
5-71-201 (LexisNexis 2005); Cal. Penal Code § 404 (West 1999); Colo. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 18-9-101 (West 2004); Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 53a-175 (West 2001); D.C.
Code § 22-1322 (West 2001); Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-30 (LexisNexis 2003); Idaho
Code Ann. § 18-6401 (2004); Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-4104 (1995); Ky. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 525.010(5) (West 2006); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2004); Mich. Comp.
Laws Ann. § 752-541 (West 2004); Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.71 (West 2003); Mont.
Code Ann. § 45-8-103 (2006); N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (1996); N.Y. Penal
Law§§240.05-240.06 (McKinney 2006); N.D. Cent. Code § 12.1-25-01 (1997); Or.
Rev. Stat. § 166.015 (2005); Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-301(3) (2006); Tex. Penal
Code Ann. § 42.02 (Vernon 2003); Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-101 (2003); Va. Code Ann.
§ 18.2-405 (2004).





n234.  Compare Ind. Code Ann. § 35-45-1-2 (LexisNexis 2004) ("A person who,
being part of an unlawful assembly, recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally
engages in tumultuous conduct commits rioting ... ."), with Kiphart v. State, 2
Ind. 273, 275 (1873) (holding that state does not need to charge defendant with
lesser included act of unlawful assembly), and Bolin v. State, 139 N.E. 659, 663
(Ind. 1923) (finding that unlawful assembly is not a necessary element of riot).





n235.  See N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (1996) (providing alternative
definitions of riot that include and exclude requirement of common purpose);
Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-101 (2003) (same).





n236.  See, e.g., Int'l Wire Works v. Hanover Fire Ins. Co., 283 N.W. 292, 294
(Wis. 1939) (finding that a vandalism by three or more under cover of darkness
and out of the public's view was not a riot because the public was not actually
terrorized).





n237.  See Briscoe v. State, 3 Md. App. 462, 468-69, 240 A.2d 109, 113 (1968)
(rejecting a defendant's argument that there was no riot because the unlawful
activity was confined to the jailhouse and therefore did not terrorize the
public). Often, progressive courts consider any unlawful act to sufficiently
terrify law-abiding citizens, finding that a breach in the peace is a breach
that affects the public at large. E.g., United States v. Bridgeman, 523 F.2d
1099, 1115 (D.C. Cir. 1975) (finding public terror in a disturbance confined to
a jail).





n238.  See Gibson v. State, 17 Md. App. 246, 261-62, 300 A.2d 692, 700-01 (1973)
(using officers' testimony that they were placed in fear as the defendant
approached them with a club as relevant to establishing public terror).





n239.  Schlamp v. State, 161 Md. App. 280, 287-88, 868 A.2d 914, 918 (2005).





n240.  Id. at 295, 868 A.2d at 924. There was testimony that Davis was favoring
his hip and that he had a knife. See id. at 297, 868 A.2d at 923 (using
testimony about the knife as evidence of the public terror requirement).





n241.  Id. at 292, 868 A.2d at 925.





n242.  Cf.  Briscoe, 3 Md. App. at 468-69, 240 A.2d at 113 (finding the public
terror requirement met, in part, because people in the Baltimore community could
be terrorized by knowledge of a jailhouse riot); see also Bridgeman, 523 F.2d at
1114-15 (explaining that breach of the peace is any activity that threatens a
citizen's interest in tranquility, law, and order).





n243.  Bridgeman, 523 F.2d at 1115 n.13. The Cohen court also used the language
of public disturbance: "[Cohen] had no right to resort to violence, disturbance
of the public peace, or to create a reign of terror." Cohen v. State, 173 Md.
216, 228, 195 A. 532, 537 (1937).





n244.  E.g., Cal. Penal Code § 404 (West 1999); Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-30
(LexisNexis 2003); Tex. Penal Code Ann. § 42.02 (Vernon 2003); Va. Code Ann. §
18.2-405 (2004).





n245.  E.g., Ala. Code § 13A-11-3 (LexisNexis 2005); Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100
(LexisNexis 2006); Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 53a-175 (West 2001); Mich. Comp. Laws
Ann. § 752-541 (West 2004); N.Y. Penal Law§§240.05-240.06 (McKinney 2006); Or.
Rev. Stat. § 166.015 (2005); see also N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (1996)
(making substantial risk of public alarm an option); Utah Code Ann. § 76-9-101
(2003) (same).





n246.  Commonwealth v. Runnels, 10 Mass. (9 Tyng) 518, 519, (1813); State v.
Sims, 16 S.C. 486 (1882) (finding application of the terror requirement
necessary only when a lawful act is committed); State v. Whiteside, 31 Tenn. (1
Swan) 88 (1851) (same).





n247.  See, e.g., State v. Beasley, 317 So. 2d 750, 753 (Fla. 1975)
(recommending that the Florida legislature define riot and use a broad
definition similar to the Federal Anti-Riot Act).





n248.  See United States v. Bridgeman, 523 F.2d 1099, 1113-14 (D.C. Cir. 1975)
(describing the enactment of the D.C. riot statute).





n249.  Id. at 1114.





n250.  See Beasley, 317 So. 2d at 753 (requiring any definition to include
breach of the public peace under the state constitution); see also Bridgeman,
523 F.2d at 1114 (explaining that the Justice Department intended to preserve
underlying common law concepts in the D.C. riot statute).





n251.  See supra Part II.D.





n252.  See Bridgeman, 523 F.2d at 1114.





n253.  See supra Part IV.A.





n254.  See supra Parts IV.B-C.





n255.  See supra Parts IV.B-C.





n256.  See supra Parts IV.B-C.





n257.  See supra Part IV.D.





n258.  See supra Part IV.D.


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday

Rethink the communal violence bill

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 2813  words


The communal violence bill prepared by the National Advisory Council (NAC) seeks
fundamentally to change how the government deals with violence against
minorities. The bill focuses on religious and linguistic minorities as well the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, but religious minorities are at its
heart. The bill has some undeniable strengths, but it suffers from two
analytically fatal flaws. First, it places excessive faith in the state
machinery. Though attached to the government, the NAC's primary function is to
express civil society concerns. Civil society normally checks the powers of the
state. It is profoundly ironical that the bill asks for a substantial expansion
of state bureaucracy. Second, the bill assumes that India's future will be an
extension of its riot-infested past, a deeply implausible point for reasons
articulated below. Parliament should reject the bill.

Before I develop my critique, let me begin with a word of admiration. The
largest part of public commentary thus far has concentrated on whether
minorities require special protection against violence, as the bill purports to
do. The NAC is right; the critics are wrong.

Minority protection

The question of minority rights has a fraught and embattled history in political
thought. The cultural right is often opposed to giving legal recognition to the
concept of minorities, saying it prevents the minorities from assimilation,
instead promoting communal division, even separatism. This is fundamentally the
Hindu nationalist critique of the bill.

But it is not only the cultural right that takes this view. Radical liberals
also reject the notion of group rights and protections. For radical liberals,
citizenship is an individual right, and individuals should be allowed freely to
choose their identities. Group entitlements imprison individuals and societies,
inexorably pushing them towards dangerous collective identities.

By comparison, the Hindu nationalist argument is majoritarian, not rooted in
individual freedom. For them, it is Hindu values that define India's national
culture, and laws should promote assimilation of minorities to the nation's
presumed Hindu centre, not perpetuate a minority mindset. Their reasons might be
different, but the cultural right and the radical liberals normally have a
seemingly unlikely alliance on this matter.

On minority rights, we also have a tradition of moderate liberalism. A moderate
liberal asks: Is a person from the minority community simply a citizen like
others? Is a rich minority simply an aggregation of rich citizens, or can it
still suffer from some serious disabilities?

Not simply in pre-modern history, but also in modern times, it has been easy to
turn groups that the mainstream of a society looks down upon, or dislikes, into
objects of collective violence. Even richer minorities have suffered such fates.
Think of the Tamils in Sri Lanka, the Indians in Uganda, the Chinese in Malaysia
and Indonesia, the Sikhs in Delhi after Indira Gandhi's assassination, and
Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley in the early 1990s.  This realisation - that even
modern societies can easily slip into majoritarianism - is the basis for the
moderate liberal claim that minorities need special protection.

Does this position imply that minorities can do no wrong? Is the majority
community always to blame? By the 1940s, thinking long and hard about this
question, Jawaharlal Nehru had started distinguishing between minority
communalism and majority communalism.  Both were bad, but majority communalism
was infinitely worse. Nehru detested Jinnah's communalism, but called Hindu
communalism the greatest danger to India. Why?

Unless one carefully watches, majority communalism and nationalism tend to get
conflated. Following the logic that the majority community is the prime, or the
only, owner of the nation, such seamless morphing is quite common. Many
Sinhalese say that they define Sri Lanka, not the Tamil minority; many Malays
contend that they are the sons of the soil in Malaysia, not the Chinese; Hitler
argued that Jews could never be Germans; supporters of mass murderers in Gujarat
(2002) called violence against Muslims an act of patriotism; the killing of
Sikhs in 1984 was also described in several circles as an assertion of Indian
nationalism. Two Sikhs had after all assassinated the prime minister, the
highest elected official, thus desecrating the nation.

Because of these dangers, the key question for moderate liberals is not about
the abstract first principles: namely, should democratic rights be individually
based or group-based? Rather, we ask a historically necessary practical
question: How can one expect minorities to be patriotic, if they are by
definition excluded from the joint ownership of the nation, and violence against
them is permitted as a legitimate act or, worse, viewed as service to the
nation?

This position does not imply that minority communalism ought to be ignored.
Nehru had harsh words to say about Muslim organisations and leaders during a
Hindu-Muslim riot in Aligarh in 1954, and wanted those organisations punished.
My own research in Hyderabad uncovered many instances when Muslim organisations
were egregiously complicit in riots. Hyderabad's mass killers came in both hues,
Hindu and Muslim; Hindus had no monopoly over rioting. Other researchers came to
similar conclusions. Agar Hindu pachees Musalman marenge, said Hyderabad's
Muslim wrestlers to Sudhir Kakar, a psychologist who also researched violence,
to hum chhabbees Hindu marenge - yeh jo riot hai, woh one-day cricket ki tarah
hota hai (if the Hindus kill 25 Muslims, we will kill 26 Hindus - a riot is like
a one-day cricket game).

Moderate liberalism does not willfully disregard the violent misconduct of
minorities; it only points to the infinitely greater subversive potential of
majority communalism. Though real, Hyderabad and Aligarh are less common; the
nearly helpless Muslims of Ahmedabad, Baroda, Moradabad, Meerut, slaughtered
mercilessly in riots, have been more typical. Riots have indisputably killed
many times more Muslims than Hindus in post-1947 India.

In sum, therefore, fundamentally because of the easy, though erroneous, equation
of majorities with nationhood, a democracy must protect its minorities from
violence. The NAC is right to emphasise the vulnerability of minorities and to
stress that the Indian state can behave in a highly majoritarian fashion. But do
we need a new law and a new bureaucracy to make that point?

Should civil servants be liable?

The second important aspect of the bill is its insistence that if "communal and
targeted violence" against minorities takes place, it will automatically be
assumed that the civil servant in charge of law and order has not exercised
"lawful authority vested in him or her under law" and he or she "shall be guilty
of dereliction of duty". The bill makes civil servants legally liable for riots.
They will be fired, demoted or reprimanded, if a riot takes place on their
watch.

At one level, this is a welcome insistence. Quite often, IAS or IPS officers
have looked at political masters before deciding how to deal with a riot, even
though the rule-book makes it clear that the responsibility of law and order at
the ground level lies with the civil servant, not with the politician. By making
the civil servant liable, the bill seeks to strengthen the civil servant against
the politician. The NAC's assumption is that if civil servants were personally
liable for riots, there is a greater chance they would act according to the
rule-book, not wait for political signals from above.

But this assumption can only be half-right. The NAC has not confronted a factual
question. Why has Aligarh been so riot-prone, whereas Bulandshahr, a town next
door, has rarely had a communal riot? Why have Meerut and Morabadad been so
communally nasty, whereas the neighbouring Muzaffarnagar and Bareilly hardly
ever witnessed a communal riot after independence? Did Aligarh, Meerut and
Moradabad have riots because the civil servants stationed there ignored, or
supported, the killing of Muslims, or is there something about the local
relations of Hindus and Muslims in these towns that made them riot-prone?

Indeed, during 1950-95, as I calculated in my book on communal violence, a mere
eight cities of India - Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Hyderabad, Aligarh, Meerut,
Delhi and Kolkata - had nearly 46 per cent of all deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots.
Did these eight cities have repeated "dereliction of duty" by civil servants?
Did the peaceful cities have especially duty-driven officials and police forces?

To be sure, there are enough cases of officials ignoring their duties during
riots. Delhi after Mrs Gandhi's assassination and Gujarat 2002 have already been
cited. More examples can easily be added. But it is also worth inquiring whether
that is the only reason riots took place.

When I asked why he succeeded in keeping peace in smaller towns of Maharashtra
but, in 1984, failed to prevent an awful communal riot in Mumbai and later in
Ahmedabad, Julio Ribeiro, an outstanding police officer of post-1947 India whose
commitment to duty has never been questioned, said that there was something
about how social and economic life was organised in Mumbai and Ahmedabad, which
made his task enormously difficult.  The same question - why riots in some
places, not in others - elicited an identical answer from most police officers
and civil administrators I interviewed in my 10-year long study of communal
violence. Would the NAC fire a Ribero, and others like him, for their inability
to prevent riots?

Riots are jointly produced. They are, in part, an outcome of how the police
officials and civil administrators have performed their constitutionally
assigned functions. Rioting is also, in part, a result of how social and
economic life is organised in a town, whether Hindus and Muslims are segregated
or integrated, and what incentives or capacities such local structures have
created for politicians, always in search of political gains, to inflame and
polarise, or calm and unite, local communities. The same IAS officer who
functioned well in Warangal often felt helpless in Hyderabad. The NAC would like
to give more powers to the civil servant. But if riots are jointly produced by
the state and society, dealing with one side of the equation is surely not
enough.

Indeed, the NAC needs to be given another reminder about the limits of state
power. Aren't state capacity and governance in the US, Britain and France much
higher than in India? Yet the US could not prevent the so-called Rodney King
riots in 1992, Britain witnessed racial rioting in the 1980s, and Arab migrants
in France rioted in 2005. Los Angeles, Brixton and Paris burned, while the
police wielded their batons and even shot to discipline the crowds. If making
the state more powerful and/or rule-governed were the solution to rioting, the
world would be an easier place to govern.

A new bureaucracy for communal harmony, justice and reparation?

The bill also envisions creation of a new set of state institutions: a National
Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and Reparation, headquartered in Delhi.
The National Authority will have seven members, supported by a "Secretary
General, who shall be an officer of the rank of the Secretary to the Government
of India".  Presumably, the members will have the rank of ministers of state and
the chairperson will be of full ministerial rank. The National Authority will be
given police and investigative staff when necessary; it can investigate the
conduct of army officers during riots; it will have the powers of a civil court
for inquiry and investigation; and all district magistrates and police
commissioners will be required to report to it on matters concerning communal
violence. There will be corresponding institutions at the state level, too. A
massive bureaucracy will thus be created.

This great institutional proposal invites a basic question: Does the NAC expect
the future of India to be as riot-ridden as India's past has been? Massive
law-and-order bureaucracies are normally created to deal with a frequently
recurring problem, not for something highly infrequent or rare. We need to ask
if riots will be occasional episodes, or regular occurrences, in the coming
years. If riots are going to be occasional, we can't justify the creation of a
huge permanent bureaucracy.

To treat the future as a mechanical extension of the past is almost always an
awful mistake. The future is basically uncertain. That is why we use
probabilistic, odds-based reasoning about the future.

What can we say about the odds of rioting in India in the next 10, 20 or 30
years? A vast amount of cross-country research on riots and civil wars has been
published in recent years. And a large conclusion has emerged.  According to
worldwide evidence, riots are regular occurrences at low levels of national
income, but only occasional episodes at middle and high incomes.

On why this is so, the research is not conclusive. But two hypotheses have been
considered reasonable.  First, as incomes rapidly rise, popular aspirations
change and a desire for material advancement, perhaps always present, becomes
more realistic. It is possible to envision a better economic future, if many
others around are rising. As a result, a new politics of aspirations emerges,
shrinking space for politicians to mobilise groups for communal riots.  With
rising prosperity, issues in politics begin to change. Communal discontent does
not fully disappear, but it begins to take the form of higher-technology
terrorism as opposed to low-tech mass riots. Once that happens, a riot-
bureaucracy is incapable of handling the problem. Second, at higher national
incomes, state capacities also increase and governance improves. The NAC
believes that the latter is not happening in India and that may be true.  But it
shows no understanding of the rising politics of aspirations, which India is
beginning to see, as it moves economically forward. Indeed, this could well be
an important reason India has witnessed no big riots since 2002.

A preponderant majority of India's riots took place, when India was a low-income
country. India has now become a middle-income country and is growing faster than
ever before. To the extent we can make predictions on the basis of research,
riots will increasingly be a matter of India's past, not its future. While it is
not impossible for this prediction to be wrong, it will be a great surprise if
communal riots returns to India in a big way, as the nation rises up the income
ladder. The basic point is that we can't create a huge bureaucracy with
unprecedented powers on the basis of a low-odds scenario.

The NAC appears to be a prisoner of India's past, especially of Gujarat 2002.
What happened in Gujarat was a crushing embarrassment for all liberal Indians
and every effort should be made to punish the guilty, but to build a new
bureaucracy to prevent another Gujarat 2002, which is in any case unlikely in
the future, will be a terrible mistake.

Indeed, the creation of such a bureaucracy and law might create perverse
incentives. Conflict research shows that many people settle petty personal
scores in ethnic violence, pretending that a larger ethnic cause is being
served. If public servants are made liable for riots, those opposed to them, for
whatever reason, might have an incentive to touch off riots - to punish a civil
servant they did not like. Thus, even though the normal tendency is for the
incidence of riots to go down at higher levels of income, the creation of a
riots bureaucracy might counteract that trend. We could reinvent a problem,
which would otherwise naturally decline.

A final point is in order. A distinction needs to be drawn between riots and
prejudice. The fact that riots decline at higher levels of income does not mean
that prejudice and discrimination necessarily go down. After the 1960s, the US
has seen very few riots, but African Americans still end up in jail
disproportionately. Rich today, Malaysia has had no big riots since 1969, when
it was poor, but discrimination against the Chinese and Indians continues.
Prejudice also sometimes takes the form of hate crimes, including those
perpetrated by the police, both in the US and Malaysia, but riots are few and
far between.

The question for India is obvious. Riots may well decline in India in the
future, but will prejudice and discrimination against the Muslims, Dalits and
Adivasis also go down? That is a bigger question than riots. But it requires
construction of an anti-discrimination law and an equal opportunity commission,
not a new bureaucracy to prevent riots.

Varshney teaches political science at Brown University and is the author of
'Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in India'

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Narendra Modi is secular, says BJP on JD(U) meet eve

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 162  words


On the eve of the crucial JD(U) meet, alliance partner BJP on Friday asserted
that Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi was "totally secular" and highlighted
that Gujarat has witnessed no riots during the past 10 years under his regime.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.

The BJP spokesperson attacked Union minister Veerappa Moily for drawing
parallels between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots.

"Congress's efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depict that Congress has Modiphobia," Abhimanyu said adding, "Moily's
comparison of 1984 riots with 2002 Gujarat riots is mere cheating. We criticise
the remarks made by Moily."

The BJP said that while the "ruling party was involved in the 1984 riots there
was no such case in 2002 riots".

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Modi is secular, says BJP on JD(U) meet eve

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 162  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


On the eve of the crucial JD(U) meet, alliance partner BJP on Friday asserted
that Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi was "totally secular" and highlighted
that Gujarat has witnessed no riots during the past 10 years under his regime.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.

The BJP spokesperson attacked Union minister Veerappa Moily for drawing
parallels between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots.

"Congress's efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depict that Congress has Modiphobia," Abhimanyu said adding, "Moily's
comparison of 1984 riots with 2002 Gujarat riots is mere cheating. We criticise
the remarks made by Moily."

The BJP said that while the "ruling party was involved in the 1984 riots there
was no such case in 2002 riots".

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                   January 22, 1997, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Berntt spoke of plan to incite riot, court told: Witnesses say the man suing the
City of Vancouver talked about starting a disturbance hours before police shot
him.

BYLINE: DAVID SMITH; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1 / Front

LENGTH: 770 words


Ryan Michael Berntt talked about starting a riot while travelling on the
SkyTrain hours before the city's downtown erupted into the 1994 Stanley Cup riot
, two witnesses testified Tuesday.

Berntt was shot in the back and head by a police officer armed with an Arwen
anti-riot weapon during the riot and spent a month in a coma as a result of the
head wound.

He is suing the City of Vancouver and six police officers for negligence and
neglect of duty.

Roy Buxbaum, a 27-year-old adolescent care worker, said he heard Berntt say he
didn't care about the hockey game while both of them were travelling on the
SkyTrain from Surrey to Vancouver June 14, 1994.

"He said, 'I don't care. I'm just going in for the riot. I'm going to start
one,' " Buxbaum testified.

"It seemed quite clear to me he was going in for the riot."

Buxbaum said he was accompanied by his friend Nathan Cole Henry on the
mid-afternoon trip into Vancouver. They planned to meet other friends and watch
the last game of the Stanley Cup playoffs, he said.

Henry, a 27-year-old stockbroker, testified that Berntt got on the train with
another male and two teenaged females.

Berntt's demeanor during the SkyTrain ride was offensive, he said.

"He was swearing and talking about how there was going to be a riot downtown,"
Henry said. "I don't recall specifically what words he used, but I'm sure that '
riot' was part of it and talking about getting one going."

The next time he saw Berntt, Henry continued, was on television the next day
when he watched coverage of the riot, which caused $ 1 million in property
damage and left hundreds of people injured.

"As soon as I saw it, I said 'That's the guy who was on the SkyTrain with us.' I
saw that he'd been shot," Henry said.

Neither Buxbaum nor Henry testified at Berntt's criminal trial.

In the final day of testimony in the civil trial, Sergeant Gerry Pyke of the
Vancouver police department told B.C. Supreme Court Justice Bruce Cohen it was
he who instructed Constable Dave Hancock twice to fire at Berntt, 21, with an
Arwen anti-riot weapon during the riot.

Berntt was identified by police as a ringleader who was inciting the riot. He
was first shot once in the back and was treated for his injury. He then returned
to the scene and was shot a second time in the head.

Berntt was in a coma for a month and suffered memory problems and impaired
speech as a result of the head wound. He is currently serving a one-year jail
sentence for taking part in the riot and assaulting two police officers.

In the first shooting instance, Pyke said, "I advised Mr. Hancock that this
person is inciting the riot. If he becomes a threat, take him."

Pyke agreed that he meant "shoot him" when he used the expression "take him."

And when Berntt reappeared at the scene after being shot in the back by a
plastic projectile from an Arwen, Pyke said: "I said to Constable Hancock,
'There he is. He's back again. If he becomes a threat, take him'."

The officer said his attention was distracted by a beer bottle thrown at him by
someone in the crowd when Berntt was shot the second time.

Pyke said there was disagreement among members of the police crowd control unit
about whether they should carry weapons when attempting to quell a riot. There
was concern a police member might be overcome by the crowd and have his weapon
taken from him, he said.

He said Deputy Chief Rick Stevens did not know that members of the CCU were
armed when they confronted the Stanley Cup rioters.

Pyke also said he carried his handgun despite the deputy's directive that CCU
members should carry only a baton, shield and helmet.

Cross-examined by Berntt's lawyer, Rick Brooks, Pyke said the crowd's behavior
"subsided considerably" after Berntt was shot in the head.

Pyke also agreed with Brooks that he was familiar with the sighting system on
the Arwen -- a weapon that he said he fired three times in target practice at
the Burke Mountain firing range in Coquitlam.

The officer agreed, too, that the Arwen has a front sight and a back sight, both
of which flip up when engaged and that both sights must be erected in order to
aim the weapon properly.

On a CBC videotape presented at the trial, various officers were shown carrying
Arwen weapons.

In one case, the image showed both sights on one weapon were flipped up. In
another case, the front sight of an Arwen was clearly up and the rear sight
folded flat.

In a third instance, both the front and rear sights on an Arwen held by an
officer were folded flat.

The case continues with final submissions by counsel.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1997 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 31, 2014

Zail Singh secy further stokes '84 riots embers

BYLINE: ANIL SHARMA

LENGTH: 462  words


New Delhi: The Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi seems to have re-ignited the
three-decade old controversy surrounding the post Indira Gandhi assassination
1984 anti-Sikh riots with Tarlochan Singh, the then press secretary to president
Giani Zail Singh, making fresh accusations against the then prime minister Rajiv
Gandhi.



In a charge that has the echoes of the same accusations that are levelled
against the Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi in the post-Godhra 2002 Gujarat
riots, Singh said that the riots were 'orchestrated and sponsored' and Rajiv
Gandhi did not even take the phone calls from the president.

"Indira Gandhi was dead in the morning but the first riots started in the
evening. Gianiji collected this information himself that a meeting of Congress
leaders - attended by Arun Nehru and Delhi leaders like H K L Bhagat, Jagdish
Tytler and all - took place before Rajiv Gandhi arrived from Kolkata. They
decided to give a slogan 'khoon ka badla khoon'. The first riot then took place
near INA market," he charged.

Rahul Gandhi had apparently made the observations in his interview with a
television channel to differentiate between the `84 and 2002 riots. He had said,
''The difference between the `84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the government was doing everything it could to stop the riots."

Modi is accused of having aided and abetted the rioters and now the former
presidential aide, who is also an ex-Rajya Sabha member and was closely
associated with the organizing of the 2010 Commonwealth Games, has come up with
similar accusations against the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi who is also
reputed to have argued that when a big tree falls (a reference to Indira
Gandhi's death) then the earth shakes.

The government also tried to defuse the controversy with the union I& B minister
Manish Tiwari regretting the riots."As far as 1984 riots are concerned, these
were extremely sad and unfortunate. The Prime Minister has apologised several
times both in Parliament and outside it," he said. Tarlochan Singh, who has
served as vice-chairman of the National Commission for Minorities from 2000 to
2003, has further alleged that unlike the 1984 communal strife, the 2002 Gujarat
riots were "spontaneous".

The Gujarat police did everything to stop rioting, Singh said, adding the same
is evident from the fact that 137 rioters were killed in police firing. His
claim may find acceptance in some quarters as in Delhi only one rioter was
killed in police firing in 1984. Incidentally, Singh served as the NCM chairman
when the NDA was in power at the Centre. Later, he entered the Rajya Sabha from
Haryana in 2004 with support from the BJP and INLD.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 Scots Edition

RIOT-HIT SHOPS REFUSED COMPO.. BECAUSE THERE WERE TOO FEW LOOTERS

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words


HUNDREDS of shops attacked in last summer's riots have been refused
compensation... because not enough people were involved in the mayhem.

The three-day rampage across the UK cost stores and other businesses an
estimated pounds 1billion in damage and lost sales.

Afterwards PM David Cameron gave a personal pledge in the House of Commons to
help riot-hit shops get back on their feet.

But shopkeepers in some hardhit areas have now been told local unrest didn't
qualify as a fullblown riot so they can't claim. Police chiefs have refused to
pay out under the Riot (Damages) Act, saying some incidents did not meet the
strict legal definition of a riot, which must be "12 or more people together
using or threatening violence for a common purpose."

In Leicester, newsagent Jay Popat, 50, closed early on the advice of police as
around 100 troublemakers ran amok. Thugs smashed his windows, causing pounds
1,000 of damage, and he lost a whole day of trading.

He said: "Our insurance didn't cover it. We put in a claim to the Government
riot fund but it was rejected. I don't know how many people were involved but I
would have classed it as riot. The Government and police have made it very hard
for people to claim."

Praful Chauhan, whose shoe shop in Leicester was also hit, said: "Our insurer
passed the buck to the Government and they passed the buck to the police, who
said it wasn't a riot. Anyone who saw it would say it was a riot."

But Leicestershire police authority insisted: "The criteria have not been met."

Ex-Labour minister Frank Dobson has urged Home Secretary Theresa May to step in
after shops in his Central London consitituency were also turned down. He said:
"This looked like a riot, smelled like a riot and sounded like a riot. No
mean-minded police lawyers will convince me it wasn't. The Government gave a
clear impression people would be able to claim.. and now they are trying to
weasel out of it."

More than 5,700 businesses have claimed. The Home Office says it is up to
individual police authorities to deal with them.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anarchy... looters running wild Mayhem... store in flames last summer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 Ulster Edition

RIOT-HIT SHOPS REFUSED COMPO.. BECAUSE THERE WERE TOO FEW LOOTERS

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words


HUNDREDS of shops attacked in last summer's riots have been refused
compensation... because not enough people were involved in the mayhem.

The three-day rampage across the UK cost stores and other businesses an
estimated pounds 1billion in damage and lost sales.

Afterwards PM David Cameron gave a personal pledge in the House of Commons to
help riot-hit shops get back on their feet.

But shopkeepers in some hardhit areas have now been told local unrest didn't
qualify as a fullblown riot so they can't claim. Police chiefs have refused to
pay out under the Riot (Damages) Act, saying some incidents did not meet the
strict legal definition of a riot, which must be "12 or more people together
using or threatening violence for a common purpose."

In Leicester, newsagent Jay Popat, 50, closed early on the advice of police as
around 100 troublemakers ran amok. Thugs smashed his windows, causing pounds
1,000 of damage, and he lost a whole day of trading.

He said: "Our insurance didn't cover it. We put in a claim to the Government
riot fund but it was rejected. I don't know how many people were involved but I
would have classed it as riot. The Government and police have made it very hard
for people to claim."

Praful Chauhan, whose shoe shop in Leicester was also hit, said: "Our insurer
passed the buck to the Government and they passed the buck to the police, who
said it wasn't a riot. Anyone who saw it would say it was a riot."

But Leicestershire police authority insisted: "The criteria have not been met."

Ex-Labour minister Frank Dobson has urged Home Secretary Theresa May to step in
after shops in his Central London consitituency were also turned down. He said:
"This looked like a riot, smelled like a riot and sounded like a riot. No
mean-minded police lawyers will convince me it wasn't. The Government gave a
clear impression people would be able to claim.. and now they are trying to
weasel out of it."

More than 5,700 businesses have claimed. The Home Office says it is up to
individual police authorities to deal with them.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anarchy... looters running wild Mayhem... store in flames last summer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

RIOT-HIT SHOPS REFUSED COMPO.. BECAUSE THERE WERE TOO FEW LOOTERS

BYLINE: STEPHEN HAYWARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 339 words


HUNDREDS of shops attacked in last summer's riots have been refused
compensation... because not enough people were involved in the mayhem.

The three-day rampage across the UK cost stores and other businesses an
estimated pounds 1billion in damage and lost sales.

Afterwards PM David Cameron gave a personal pledge in the House of Commons to
help riot-hit shops get back on their feet.

But shopkeepers in some hardhit areas have now been told local unrest didn't
qualify as a fullblown riot so they can't claim. Police chiefs have refused to
pay out under the Riot (Damages) Act, saying some incidents did not meet the
strict legal definition of a riot, which must be "12 or more people together
using or threatening violence for a common purpose."

In Leicester, newsagent Jay Popat, 50, closed early on the advice of police as
around 100 troublemakers ran amok. Thugs smashed his windows, causing pounds
1,000 of damage, and he lost a whole day of trading.

He said: "Our insurance didn't cover it. We put in a claim to the Government
riot fund but it was rejected. I don't know how many people were involved but I
would have classed it as riot. The Government and police have made it very hard
for people to claim."

Praful Chauhan, whose shoe shop in Leicester was also hit, said: "Our insurer
passed the buck to the Government and they passed the buck to the police, who
said it wasn't a riot. Anyone who saw it would say it was a riot."

But Leicestershire police authority insisted: "The criteria have not been met."

Ex-Labour minister Frank Dobson has urged Home Secretary Theresa May to step in
after shops in his Central London consitituency were also turned down. He said:
"This looked like a riot, smelled like a riot and sounded like a riot. No
mean-minded police lawyers will convince me it wasn't. The Government gave a
clear impression people would be able to claim.. and now they are trying to
weasel out of it."

More than 5,700 businesses have claimed. The Home Office says it is up to
individual police authorities to deal with them.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anarchy... looters running wild Mayhem... store in flames last summer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

Society: The unheard voices of the riots: An Oxford law graduate arrested in the
summer of 2011 has made a film that gives protesters a say

BYLINE: Mary O'Hara

SECTION: GUARDIAN SOCIETY PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 845 words


Salim Ormanli speaks calmly andquietly to the camera: "I was thinking, shit,
man, I just want to wake up. I hope this is a dream. I hope I got hit on the
head or something in the riots . . . But it was real." The 23-year-old
Londoner's candid account of the shock and hardship of being in prison following
the summer riots of 2011 is one of many that have emerged in the wake of the
unrest that spread across the country a year and a half ago.

This time the interview is unusual because it is for a documentary made by a
fellow arrestee, Fahim Alam (pictured below), who spent six weeks in prison on
remand and a further six months on an electronic tag after being wrongly accused
by police of hurling bricks at them during rioting in east London.

Alam interviewed Ormanli along with activists, academics, poets, youth workers,
lawyers and people arrested and convicted during other riots for his first
documentary, Riots Reframed. The film is a scathing and uncompromising
dissection of the society that spawned the unrest, which premieres on 16 March
in London. It is, according to its 27-year-old producer and director, an attempt
to challenge politicians' and mainstream media's superficial depictions of the
riots as nothing more than the product of "mindless criminals", and to provide a
platform for more informed discussion.

"Whether they're a professor or an activist or a poet or whoever, through their
voices, they paint a different picture," he says of the people in the
documentary. "The thing that unites them is that in some way they resist the
dominant narrative." Alam is a law graduate from the University of Oxford with a
master's degree from the London School of Economics, who, two months before his
arrest, was heralded in this newspaper as a shining example of a young person
who beat the odds to make it from a disadvantaged background to two of the
world's top universities. Alam's story before the riots is remarkable. That he
went in a single day from being a symbol of aspiration and achievement to being
gratuitously splashed across the nation's media for a crime, of which a jury
would take under half an hour to clear him, makes it all the more poignant.
Being dragged into a police van simply because he was where riots were taking
place (he was on his way to visit his grandparents in Hackney), being denied
bail, going through the specially convened "riot courts" at 3am, and then
spending weeks in prison "not knowing" if and when he'd be released was
profound, Alam says.

He describes jail as "a very sharp and sudden shock", but he has since tried to
make sense of the backdrop to the riots. "I now know that the riots aren't just
about the riots," he says. "The riots are about everything else. The riots are
about society and the system we live under. So, really, this film is . . . about
everything else the riots have touched. It highlights so many aspects of the
system we live under - prison or poverty. Or whether it's war or rebellion or
the police - it opens up so many conversations."

Reframing the Riots is self-funded. Alam set up a company, VoiceOver, to make
it. And it deliberately does not provide a balanced analysis. "The politicians,
police and other authority figures get enough space and propaganda to air their
views in the mainstream media," Alam says.

The documentary presents views and insights on an array of complex and
interwoven subjects such as unemployment, poverty, racism and even corporate tax
avoidance. Almost everyone interviewed warns of more social unrest.

Alam's lawyer Imran Khan has represented the family of Stephen Lawrence and was
involved in the appeals process after the Bradford riots of 2001. He says he
hopes the documentary helps inform a wider discussion on the political and legal
responses to rioting. "You can give whatever sentences you want, it's still
going to happen. Riots (and) disorder are organic processes which take place
because of what people feel at the time," says Khan. "You know what? If it can
happen to (Fahim) it can happen to any of us. The fact that he is doing the
documentary? He is continuing the great tradition which is saying 'It's not
about me, it's about how it affects everybody else.'"

Kahn and Alam have launched a formal complaint against the police for Alam's
arrest, but, while a resolution on this could take years, his immediate plans
are to take the documentary "as far and wide as it can go". He has screenings
lined up in the US, but there are hopes of sparking debate at home too.

Alam is keen to emphasise the "positive" fallout of the riots. For example, he
points out that, in the aftermath, some people began "talking about a section of
the population that for years had been ignored" helping to "strip away the veil
of normality" that concealed entrenched social despair.

"Sometimes there are deep and profound opportunities within the biggest
injustices and if we can use these things to (speak to) power then we should."

Captions:

Many young Londoners were imprisoned following the outbreak in August 2011
Photograph: John Cantlie/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

The Victorian law which has reduced the impact of the riots

BYLINE: Last summer's scenes of violent unrest ripped the heart out of Salford
and Manchester. But what will the impact be for insurance premiums. Paul Maher
reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 673 words


SPONSORS' COMMENT

Question: What impact have the riots had on insurance premiums for
shopkeepers/commercial businesses?

Rob Black at C&C Insurance Brokers, commented as follows.

The cost of last year's riots to the insurance industry was estimated at tens of
millions of pounds. Whilst individual businesses who had to claim on their
insurance for damage to property or theft of stock may see a marginal increase
in their premium at next renewal, it is unlikely that this one event alone will
have a significant impact across all business insurance policies.

However, if this type of civil unrest was to become more regular we may find
that insurers will increase premiums or malicious damage excesses for the areas
being affected.

At a time when there is huge focus on reducing public spending it may even force
the Government to make changes to the Riot Damages Act which currently,
providing certain time scales are met, acts as a safety net for underinsured
businesses and allows insurers to recoup some of their costs.   LAST summer's
riots are unlikely to result in an across-the-board hike in insurance premiums,
thanks to the Riot (Damages) Act, but some businesses could still feel a serious
pinch as a consequence. Dating back to Queen Victoria's reign, the act means
much of the damage costs incurred during the Manchester and Salford disturbances
in August will be covered by Greater Manchester Police Authority However, not
everything is covered by the 126-year-old law, and insurance companies have
still had to stump up payments for losses such as business interruption and
vehicle damage. There were more than 1,000 incidents across Manchester and
Salford during the riots in which plundering and destruction saw more than 100
properties damaged and 155 fires started. In total 381 claims have been filed
with the GMPA worth  £5.7m 170 have already been rejected as ineligible under
the act. The Association of British Insurers estimates that its members have
handled more than  £12m worth of claims as a result of the riots. Malcolm
Tarling, spokesman for the ABI, said: Although this act dates back to the
Victorian era, and there are attempts being made to revise it, we think the
principle should remain the same as it has enabled riot damage insurance to
remain widely available, as when riots do occur they can be very costly. Cover
for riot-damage is standard for most business policies. The Riot (Damages) Act
means insurers can claim back that cost from the relevant police authority but
it also ensures that if you haven't got riot damage cover, you are still
covered. However, there will be a cost on insurance regardless as the Riot
(Damages) Act doesn't cover everything. Whether businesses do face higher
premiums will be dependent on the area where their property is located and the
nature of their business. Jewellers, sports and footwear stores and mobile phone
shops are all seen as being at high risk. Insurance costs will also vary between
individual insurers who will assess past claims and the costs they incurred as a
result of the disturbances before offering new policies. But security measures
can be taken to help reduce insurance bills. The installation of toughened
glass, meshing, shutters, CCTV cameras or intruder alarms can all have an impact
on premiums. The ABI advises business owners and managers speak to their
insurance companies and get advice before spending money on increased security.
It also suggests the use of brokers to find insurers who specialise in covering
inner-city businesses. Tarling added: It is the role of an insurance company to
offer risk management advice and it is essential that those conversations take
place as important practical measures can be taken. Businesses should look to do
the same from a vandalism or burglary point of view. A common sense approach is
to look at the risk factors and talk to insurers. For a small business these are
precarious times and, if they face a loss, it could mean the end of the business
but that is why we have insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

The Victorian law which has reduced the impact of the riots

BYLINE: Last summer's scenes of violent unrest ripped the heart out of Salford
and Manchester. But what will the impact be for insurance premiums. Paul Maher
reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 672 words


SPONSORS' COMMENT

Question: What impact have the riots had on insurance premiums for
shopkeepers/commercial businesses?

Rob Black at C&C Insurance Brokers, commented as follows.

The cost of last year's riots to the insurance industry was estimated at tens of
millions of pounds. Whilst individual businesses who had to claim on their
insurance for damage to property or theft of stock may see a marginal increase
in their premium at next renewal, it is unlikely that this one event alone will
have a significant impact across all business insurance policies.

However, if this type of civil unrest was to become more regular we may find
that insurers will increase premiums or malicious damage excesses for the areas
being affected.

At a time when there is huge focus on reducing public spending it may even force
the Government to make changes to the Riot Damages Act which currently,
providing certain time scales are met, acts as a safety net for underinsured
businesses and allows insurers to recoup some of their costs.

LAST summer's riots are unlikely to result in an across-the-board hike in
insurance premiums, thanks to the Riot (Damages) Act, but some businesses could
still feel a serious pinch as a consequence. Dating back to Queen Victoria's
reign, the act means much of the damage costs incurred during the Manchester and
Salford disturbances in August will be covered by Greater Manchester Police
Authority However, not everything is covered by the 126-year-old law, and
insurance companies have still had to stump up payments for losses such as
business interruption and vehicle damage. There were more than 1,000 incidents
across Manchester and Salford during the riots in which plundering and
destruction saw more than 100 properties damaged and 155 fires started. In total
381 claims have been filed with the GMPA worth  £5.7m 170 have already been
rejected as ineligible under the act. The Association of British Insurers
estimates that its members have handled more than  £12m worth of claims as a
result of the riots. Malcolm Tarling, spokesman for the ABI, said: Although this
act dates back to the Victorian era, and there are attempts being made to revise
it, we think the principle should remain the same as it has enabled riot damage
insurance to remain widely available, as when riots do occur they can be very
costly. Cover for riot-damage is standard for most business policies. The Riot
(Damages) Act means insurers can claim back that cost from the relevant police
authority but it also ensures that if you haven't got riot damage cover, you are
still covered. However, there will be a cost on insurance regardless as the Riot
(Damages) Act doesn't cover everything. Whether businesses do face higher
premiums will be dependent on the area where their property is located and the
nature of their business. Jewellers, sports and footwear stores and mobile phone
shops are all seen as being at high risk. Insurance costs will also vary between
individual insurers who will assess past claims and the costs they incurred as a
result of the disturbances before offering new policies. But security measures
can be taken to help reduce insurance bills. The installation of toughened
glass, meshing, shutters, CCTV cameras or intruder alarms can all have an impact
on premiums. The ABI advises business owners and managers speak to their
insurance companies and get advice before spending money on increased security.
It also suggests the use of brokers to find insurers who specialise in covering
inner-city businesses. Tarling added: It is the role of an insurance company to
offer risk management advice and it is essential that those conversations take
place as important practical measures can be taken. Businesses should look to do
the same from a vandalism or burglary point of view. A common sense approach is
to look at the risk factors and talk to insurers. For a small business these are
precarious times and, if they face a loss, it could mean the end of the business
but that is why we have insurance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday

'Yakub hanging is justice, wish same zeal shown in 1993 riots cases': Judge who
probed Mumbai riots

BYLINE: seema chishti

LENGTH: 671  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


A day after the hanging of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict Yakub Memon,
Justice B M Srikrishna, who headed the one-man commission that inquired into the
riots that preceded the blasts in the city, said "justice according to law has
been done".

But commenting on the treatment of the riots and blasts cases, Justice
Srikrishna, in an email interview, said: "It is distressing that instead of
being looked at as incidents of crimes, the two sets of acts got dealt with
disparately depending on the communal inclinations of the state apparatus."

The Srikrishna Commission was set up by the Maharashtra government to
investigate incidents of widespread rioting from December 6 to 10, 1992 and
January 6 to 20, 1993 and damage and loss to the city during that period. One of
the terms of reference for the commission was to see if the riots and the blasts
were connected. The riots left 900 dead.

In his inquiry report, Justice Srikrishna concluded that there was one: "One
common link between the riots of December 1992 and January 1993 and bomb blasts
of 12th March 1993 appears to be that the former appear to have been a causative
factor for the latter. There does appear to be a cause and effect relationship
between the two riots and the serial bomb blasts."

On Yakub's hanging, he said: "I think justice according to law has been done.
That should provide a closure to the unnecessary controversies and avoidable
whipping up of passions all around."

He said the main reason for the difference in the treatment of the riots and
blasts cases was "state bias". "If the state is is complicit in the communal
riots, police will turn a Nelson's eye towards the real aggressors and round up
the real victims, as happened during Mumbai riots and Delhi riots.

Obviously, prosecutions also will be geared to meet the ends of state. While no
one could have objected to the zeal with which the police prosecuted the bomb
blast cases, one wishes that the same zeal had been shown in investigation and
prosecution of the riot cases. Both are crimes and what is desirable is that the
state machinery be agnostic to communal and religious factors on both
occasions."

"As long as the inherent state bias is not removed, there would be no change in
the situation," he said. "The victims of such state complicity in aggression,
therefore, looked for succour from outside and that resulted in the bomb
explosions." He termed the Mumbai bomb blasts, as a case of "history repeating
itself at enormous cost to human lives."

In his inquiry report, he had referred specifically to Tiger Memon, Yakub's
brother, as "the key figure" in the serial blasts case, and one of "his trusted
accomplices, Javed Dawood Tailor".

"Apart from these two specific cases, there was a large amorphous body of angry
frustrated and desperate Muslims keen to seek revenge for the perceived
injustice done to and atrocities perpetrated on them or to others of their
community and it is this sense of revenge which spawned the conspiracy of the
serial blasts. This body of angry frustrated and desperate Muslims provided the
material upon which the anti-national and criminal elements succeeded in
building up their conspiracy for the serial bomb blasts," the report concluded.

Justice Srikrishna says he believes in the death penalty. "I am of the view that
capital punishment must remain. When I was faced with confirmation of a death
sentence for the first time as a judge, I spent several hours debating the issue
in my mind till I came to the conclusion that it should remain. However, in a
democracy, if the will of people reflected (theoretically, at least) by law made
by Parliament decides to abolish it, so shall be it."

On the role of prosecutors in trials like these, Justice Srikrishna said: "The
role the prosecutor is to impartially place all relevant evidence before the
court to judge. Unfortunately, this is not done as impartially as required.
Prosecutors tend to go overboard for securing convictions as that gets them
greater number of feathers in their caps."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Nepali Times

                             April 19, 2013 Friday

What a riot

LENGTH: 592  words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, April 19 -- India's opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) simply
can't figure out why communal riots under its rule are never forgotten, while
those under Congress governments are.

This has assumed special importance as the BJP is inclined to project as its
prime ministerial candidate Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, whose alleged
fanning of the 2002 riots continues to haunt him and his party.

Indeed, it is actually the Congress that has palpably failed to control communal
hotheads from running amok periodically. Yet the party still garners a
substantial chunk of the minority as well as secular votes. Why then is it the
BJP that has the 'communal' label?

For one, a riot is an extreme manifestation of the BJP's politics which is
predicated on addressing the grievances of Hindus, real or imagined. The origin
of these grievances lie either in India's medieval past or in public policies
after independence which the party perceives as favouring minorities.

This worldview pits India's Hindus against the minorities, particularly Muslims.
In other words, the inter-community tensions signifying the abnormal in
politics, have no possibility of closure in the immediate future.?

This is stoked at state, district and India-wide levels. The Ram Janmabhoomi
movement sought to meld the Hindus into a monolith, through a demand asking
Muslims to voluntarily relinquish the Babri Masjid. There are similar demands
for the relocation of mosques abutting the Krishna and Shiv temples in Mathura
and Varanasi.

These symbols of pan-India Hindu mobilisation are augmented through disputes
over other places of worship of local significance. For variety, Christian
priests are also attacked for allegedly converting Hindus to Christianity.

In this culture of inter-community tension, fanned and allowed to simmer, the
riot is the logical culmination of an insidious process. The salience of
tension-riot in the politics of BJP is why a localised inter-community conflict
under its rule acquires a countrywide resonance. The 2002 riot of Gujarat was
horrifying because it was viewed to have been ideologically driven and,
therefore, bound to be replicated elsewhere.

By contrast, the riots under the Congress, even the ones its activists spearhead
are instrumental rather than ideological. Barring the anti-Sikh pogrom of 1984,
the riots under the Congress rarely spill beyond a parliamentary constituency or
two. The motive behind such mayhem is usually a local Congressman wanting to win
an election from a constituency, a riot or communal tension rarely becomes a
tool for political mobilisation countrywide. The 1984 riots were the exception.
Though 20 years too late, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, a Sikh himself,
apologised to the entire nation "because what took place in 1984 is the negation
of the concept of nationhood in our Constitution".

The Congress is forgiven because the riots under it are often (not always) the
handiwork of organisations belonging to the Sangh Parivar. It's a conclusion
several commissions of inquiry appointed to probe riots have reached. The
tension-riot remains the Sangh Parivar's defining strategy of achieving its
ideological goal of turning India Hindu. This is why the riots under the BJP are
remembered and not those under the Congress, which too has been guilty for the
spilling of blood and untold misery. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Nepali Times. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Himal Media Pvt. Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Reading the Riots launches Community Conversations

BYLINE: Symeon Brownguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 561 words

ABSTRACT

Guardian/LSE's groundbreaking study into last summer's disorder now holding
series of debates in riot-affected cities

FULL TEXT

Six months on from the unprecedented events of last August, the Guardian/LSE's
groundbreaking collaborative study into the disturbances is hosting a series of
grassroots debates in riot-affected cities across England.

These meetings will be open debates, organised in conjunction with local
community groups, and will be a chance for the people directly affected by the
riots to give their views about what happened in the summer and in the
aftermath.

The first debate took place this morning in Tottenham, the area of north London
which lit the spark for the riots, after an initially peaceful protest following
the police shooting of local man Mark Duggan turned violent.

The inaugural event was staged in support of the campaigning group North London
Citizens who launched their Citizens' Inquiry Report into the causes and
consequences of the riots in Tottenham. Speakers at the event included David
Lammy, the Labour MP for the area, and local children who attend school with the
children of Mark Duggan.

The first phase of the Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots research was published in
December 2011, and included interviews with around 270 people who took part in
the riots. As well as community events, phase two of the research will include
interviews with frontline police officers and those in command positions, as
well as looking at how the criminal justice system responded to these
unprecedented events.

To share your views and attend a local community conversation email
symeon.brown.casual@guardian.co.uk

Community Conversation dates

Peckham: Tuesday 21 February

In partnership with the Damilola Taylor TrustDamilola Taylor Centre, 6pm-8pm

Panellists: Gary Trowsdale CEO, Damilola Taylor Trust Jan Asante, Gizella
Boutique (affected by riots) Ben Ferguson, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Croydon: Thursday 23 February

In partnership with Croydon Voluntary Action CVA Resource Centre, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Cllr Vidhi Mohan, cabinet member for communities and big society Karen Chillman,
CVA manager Carl Neilson Rock Bottom, local business owner Yemisi Adegoke,
Croydon resident, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Birmingham: Tuesday 28 February

In partnership with the Haven Community Project The Drum, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Mukhtar Dar, film-maker and director of arts Simon Jay, Haven Community Project,
Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Liverpool: Thursday 1 March

In partnership with the Unity Community ProjectThe Unity, Toxteth, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Earl Jenkins, Unity Community Association Wally Brown, retired principle of
Liverpool College Ricky Jones, Tiber Youth Tracey Tgore, Biko Housing
Association Katinka Weber, Guardian-LSE Reading the Riots

Community Conversation at the Faith Forum for London Conference: Monday 5 March

Stamford Bridge

Panellists:

Boris Johnson, mayor of LondonChristopher Chessun, Bishop of SouthwarkCamila
Batmanghelidjh, Kids Company

Manchester: Tuesday 6 March

In partnership with the Social Action and Research Foundation Friends Meeting
House, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:

Cllr Pat Karney, lead member for communities Diane Curry, Partners of Prisoners

Salford: Thursday 8 March

In partnership with the Social Action and Research Foundation 2 Pendleton
Gateway, 6pm-8pm

Panellists:Cllr John Merry, leader of Salford council

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

Reading the Riots conference - live blog

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 7071 words

ABSTRACT

Live coverage as Ed Miliband, Theresa May and Yvette Cooper speak at
Guardian/LSE conference on the summer disorder

FULL TEXT

5.02pm: The last speaker is Alan Rusbridger, the editor of the Guardian. He says
it is very rare for a newspaper to collaborate with a university but from the
Guardian's point of view it has been very rewarding. He hopes it will inspire
other news organisations and universities to link up in a similar way. He uses
Carl Bernstein's description of journalism as "the best obtainable version of
the truth", and that is what academics look for too. Attacks on the project have
been "simplistic", he says. The findings were nuanced and are rooted in evidence
rather than speculation.

In phase two we will interview victims, police, judges and court officials, but
it was right to start with the rioters, Rusbridger says - they were the ones who
committed these crimes. When we have carried out these interviews too, "only
then can we tell the story in its totality".

4.57pm: "Police are unfair" and "police are the biggest gang out there" were the
two main ideas about the police expressed by the rioters we interviewed. Some
interviewees said they felt unprotected by the police, that the police were
there to protect others but not them.

An important theme that emerged from the research was that rioters felt
empowered for the first time, and part of this was feeling they had power over
the police.

Was anger at the police post-justification? The strength and prevalence of this
feeling suggest not, Burch says.

4.53pm:Alex Burch, one of the LSE analysts involved in the research, speaks next
about how the theme of policing emerged from the speech. A small but significant
proportion of young people are completely alienated from the police, she says.
Stop and search is a big part of that - and the manner of stop and search rather
than the search itself. There is also a "collective historical memory" of past
riots and past controversial police actions in places like Brixton, Tottenham
and Liverpool.

4.48pm: The riots communities and victims' panel has welcomed Theresa May's
decision to ask Acpo to review best practice on stop and search, which was a
recommendation of the panel's recent interim report. A spokesperson said:

We spoke to communities about stop and search on our visits to 17 areas affected
by the August riots, and three areas that were not. We discovered that if stop
and search is not conducted correctly and with courtesy there is a risk that
widespread support for it in communities will be eroded. This was not an issue
simply raised by rioters. Individuals, young and old and from all backgrounds,
told us it must be addressed to improve relationships between the public and the
police.

4.44pm: Casey says we should not concentrate on police tactics. Poverty and poor
education of the rioters is crucial. "Surely some of the response to the riots
is about building resilience to our families and our communities."

4.42pm: Cooper says what stopped the riots was having more police on the
streets.

She says in some cities such as Leeds where rioting did not take place
councillors credited "community work" for preventing them.

Owens agrees about policing, and also says "four days of rioting makes you quite
tired - the probably needed to sleep".

"A lot of people started to realise how much damage had been inflicted on the
communities they lived in," Sakil says, explaining why he thinks the riots
ended.

Sakil talks about being stopped and searched after someone on bail used his
name. Afterwards when the mistake was revealed and they found out he was the
"young mayor" of Lewisham they drove him home. His anger at this incident is
palpable, giving a good illustration of the alienating effects of stop and
search.

4.34pm: A man from the Runnymede Trust thinktank talks about stop and search's
tinyrates of success; he gets a round of applause.

Sakil says he thinks young people have become more politically engaged and
determined to vote since the riots. He says there can be a political side to
rioting, and this conference shows some of the political results of it.

4.27pm: Sakil says a lot of young people do not mind stop and search, but it is
an invasion of privacy, so people want to "defend themselves". He says: "It
feels like you're trying to scare ... young people, because we're getting
stopped and searched a bit too often."

Cooper says some of the things Ken Clarke has proposed are right, but says his
position on halving rape sentences where offenders plead guilty was wrong.

Justin Webb says all these problems of crime and lack of respect were there when
Labour was in power. Cooper acknowledges they are "deep-rooted problems".

Cooper points out that the police were back on the streets "without arms" the
day after the riots - it is hard to imagine that happening after riots in other
countries, for example the one in Los Angeles, she says.

4.21pm: Eric Allison of the Guardian asks why youth custody has gone up if youth
crime has gone down and why Labour does not support Ken Clarke's proposals on
criminal justice.

The panel is asked about the police being masked during recent protests in
central London. The questioner says this shocked her.

Justin Webb says the "kind of gear" police often wear now makes them look more
militaristic.

Owens says complaining about stop and search is often used as shorthand for "we
don't like the way the police engage" - ie there are more issues the police have
to get right than just stop and search.

She says the police have been "very slow on social media". The police are still
not "wholly up to speed" on that as an investigative and intelligence tool.

Casey says some families are hostile towards authority because "authority is
rightly doing its job properly". Sometimes the police have to be tough on
anti-social behaviour. But she adds: "Communication is the absolutely most
important part of all this." If police communicate why they are doing things and
what they are doing, explaining why they are taking action, that would improve
relations.

4.12pm: Lynne Owens, the deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan police, who is
leading the Met's review of its response to the riots, speaks next. She says she
is here mainly to listen rather than talk. "I'm not here in any defensive way."

She says the police review will cover "intelligence functions, social media, our
relationship with the IPCC, public order tactics" and more.

Jacob Sakil, former "young mayor" of Lewisham, speaks next. He appeared on
Newsnight's special Reading the Riots. He says self-esteem, mental health
issues, and role models are important issues in explaining the riots. "When we
talk about young people, we never involve young people in the conversation," he
says.

Louise Casey, the former "respect tsar" who is leading the government's response
to the riots, says the best thing about this study is that it is looking at the
evidence rather than shooting from the hip. The riots brought into very sharp
focus a great number of issues in our urban areas. She talks about "the lack of
connection so many people felt with their communities". But as well as receiving
help, people in poor areas need to take more responsibility for themselves and
their children, she says. She points out how many of the general public in the
Guardian's ICM poll on the riots - 86% - thought poor parenting was to blame.

Cooper says at times stop and search is really important to the police -
counter-terrorism, knife crime - but there are concerns about it being used
repeatedly in particular areas where "nothing is found". There is a need to have
a proper debate with local communities about stop and search, and there might be
an argument for changing some of the guidance on stop and search.

Lynne Owens says "it really isn't as simple as" stop and search is good or bad.
It is a very important tool for the police, she says. She says the police
surveyed the public and 75% supported stop and search but there was an issue
about how it was carried out.

3.56pm: Cooper says that in Tottenham everybody underestimated the scale of what
was happening and the scale of the response that was needed. "It does raise
questions for the model of policing" if people are suddenly able to gather
together to commit crimes. "The police need to be able to gather very fast as
well." It took 16,000 police officers to restore calm in the capital, so to cut
police numbers now is wrong, she says.

She points out that many young people were not involved in the riots, and were
indeed involved in the clean-up.

Cooper mentions the commission on policing that Labour has set up, which will
look into issues such as stop and search.

We are not seeing a serious commitment to preventing the riots happening again
from the government. She says she is worried that "in some form or another, we
will see similar problems arise again in the future."

3.51pm: Next comes a panel on policing consisting of:

Louise Casey, director-general, Troubled Families Unit, Department of
Communities and Local GovernmentYvette Cooper, shadow home secretaryLynne Owens,
deputy commissioner, Metropolitan policeJacob Sakil, former "young mayor" of
Lewisham

Cooper welcome the Guardian/LSE study. She says it seemed during August that
"law and order had collapsed in parts of our cities". She says people felt the
law either could not or would not be enforced.

There is no excuse for criminal behaviour, she says. But there is also no excuse
for governments not to look at the wider issues to prevent such events being
repeated.

She points out that the police are sometimes criticised for not policing hard
enough, sometimes for being too soft "and we should also of course back the
police" as they try to maintain the rule of law.

Cooper says there were serious problems in the way the police and the IPCC
handled the shooting of Mark Duggan.

3.46pm:Philip Meyer, the Detroit journalist whose study into the 1967 riots
inspired this study, has sent a video message to the conference. He says they
went into their study trying to prove theories about the causes of the riots
"but in England's case there is not enough existing theory" so the study has had
to provide the theory.

3.19pm: Brajeux says there were some positive effects of this gang truce, with
parties afterwards where rival gang members could attend. But others said
everything had just gone back to how it used to be.

3.12pm: Bawdon says many rioters interviewed seemed very aware that politicians
and the media had pinned the blame for the riots on gangs, and were very keen to
debunk this. They described hostilities between gangs as ceasing for the
duration of the riots.

3.06pm:Fiona Bawdon and Marie-Aimee Brajeux, from the Reading the Riots research
team, are up next to talk about the role of gangs during the riots. The research
found gang involvement was not significant during the riots. Gang members were
present, but the rioting and looting was not orchestrated by gangs.

3.03pm:Procter talks about how Twitter was used to organise the clean-up after
the riots.

Procter says government should not let fear of misuse of social media persuade
it to close down social media platforms during events such as the August riots.
People need access to information during crisis situations and social media can
help with this.

3.01pm: Some Twitter users are prepared to fake evidence in order to get others
to believe rumours, he says, with reference to the above mocked-up picture of
the London Eye on fire.

2.58pm: Rob Procter is showing the conference this interactive graphic on how
rumours on Twitter during the riots spread and were eventually dampened down or
disproved.

2.54pm: My colleague Paul Lewis has just clarified what he said earlier this
morning about other research conducted into the riots (see 10.09am). He told the
audience the independent communities and victims' panel was doing some essential
work, but its focus has - understandably - been on the impact of the riots on
communities. (The panel also spoke to a small number of people who were involved
in the riots.) It was with a view to "filling the gap" that the Reading the
Riots team, which was primarily concerned with better understand why the riots
happened, decided it was important to interview large numbers of rioters.

2.52pm: Rob Procter talks about how he and his team analysed 2.6m tweets related
to the riots.

2.50pm: Ball runs through the ways in which new media has been blamed for riots
in recent times. Twitter was blamed this time, he points out.

He points out that BlackBerry Messenger was the most important technological
factor during the riots.

BlackBerry smartphones are very cheap to buy and use. They are secure and
messages sent are not public like Twitter but can be sent to hundreds of people
with one push of a button.

But television and radio were also very important and many rioters used them to
find out what was happening in the riots and often to find out where to go to
join in.

2.44pm: Up next, and talking about the role of social media in the riots, are my
colleague James Ball, and Prof Rob Procter of the University of Manchester and
Dr Farida Vis, who analysed 2.6m tweets sent during the riots.

2.43pm: The living wage is part of the solution, Miliband says.

He is worried about the government's cuts to housing benefit, which will have "a
massively bad impact", he says.

Justin Webb asks again about whether the questions asked by the study allowed
the rioters to justify their actions in ways that do not really reflect their
true motives.

Miliband gives this short shrift. "If you don't like the research, you attack
the researchers," he says. He says the Guardian/LSE research "dovetailed
absolutely" with what the victims' panel says. Webb gives Miliband another
chance to criticise the research, but Miliband says it was a really worthwhile
piece of work.

2.35pm: Justin Webb asks him about the harsh sentences for the rioters. Miliband
says it is right that a signal is sent that you will be punished if you do the
wrong thing. But you've also got to make sure there is proper rehabilitation for
offenders. Tough community sentences are a way forward, he says.

Parenting is an issue, Miliband says. "Clearly the way kids are brought up has
an effect." But there was not just one cause for the riots, he says. Some
parents who do absolutely the right thing, and their kids "can still go out and
do the wrong thing".

Restorative justice is very important, he says. It could be used more in this
case and right across the board, he says.

He says: "I can't promise to reverse the cuts ... It's about credibility. It's
about what we can do and what we can't do. We'll see where we are."

He says Ken Clarke, the justice secretary, is doing "rehabilitation on the
cheap, and it's very hard to do that".

2.30pm: Asked about Labour's poll ratings, Miliband says: "I'll let you worry
about the polls."

He says peaceful political protest is the only legitimate form of protest. In
the riot-hit communities that is where people were the most outraged about the
riots.

It takes a very short time to create generational disadvantage, and a very long
time to undo it, he says.

He says the last Labour government "didn't take the values at the top nearly
serious enough".

We have to change the ethic of the "take what you can" society, he says.

2.18pm: He closes his speech with this:

If we act not only on opportunity but on the values of our country, we can not
only prevent another riot, but build the kind of society we want to see.

He is asked about cuts to local authorities. He says there is a good case to
make youth services statutory.

He says it is too simplistic to draw a simple line from cuts such as that to EMA
to the riots.

2.12pm: We have to make sure young people have more to aspire to than "nicking a
pair of trainers or a flatscreen TV", Miliband says.

Youth unemployment is a key issue, he says. The idea that the next generation
will do better than the last "is under threat as never before".

In David Lammy's recent book about the riots, Miliband says, Lammy uses the
example of a boy who received BBM messages inviting him to riot - and he did not
do so, passing the messages to his parents who passed them to the authorities.

He is emphasising that although people's circumstances can have an effect on
their behaviour, their own values matter too.

Male role models are also important, Miliband says.

2.09pm: He harks back to David Cameron's 2006 "hug a hoodie" speech. There were
some things in that speech that were right, Miliband says - that there are
connections between circumstances and behaviour.

The Guardian/LSE research and the victims' panel both found that.

Too many people felt they had not much to lose and too much to gain from what
they did.

He says the choice between the right and wrong paths can be "marginal" in poor
neighbourhoods.

2.07pm: Miliband says:

Some people, and I gather the home secretary did this this morning, will give
you the easy answer: it's criminality pure and simple.

It's right to look at stop and search, Miliband says. The commission Labour has
set up headed by Lord Stevens will be looking at that, he says.

Criminal justice is not the only response, he says.

Government policy alone cannot solve the problem, the Labour leader says. Those
things are important but alone they are not sufficient, he says.

2.05pm: Miliband says we need a different set of values in our economy and our
society. He refers to the study's findings that half of those interviewed said
they would riot again.

He says that his fear that politicians and the media have moved on from the
riots has largely come true. He went to Brixton last Friday, where he had been
in August. He met someone called Steve, he says, who grew up on an estate where
he felt nothing good was coming out of his neighbourhood. One of his teachers
told him he would end up in a dead-end job or in prison. But he said to himself
that Ian Wright came from his neighbourhood, and if Wright could succeed, he
could. Steve got great qualifications and works with young people using sport to
change their lives, Miliband says.

The vast majority of young people, like Steve, did not riot, he says. "Britain
is not broken. The vast majority have good values."

2.01pm: Miliband gets a big cheer - especially when it is announced that unlike
Theresa May he will take questions at the end. He says May was a good warm-up
act.

2.00pm:Ed Miliband has arrived and will make the first speech this afternoon.

1.51pm:Here's a video of Theresa May's speech from earlier.

12.47pm: The audience here today is a diverse group, including MPs,
policy-makers, youth workers, academics, young people, police representatives,
lawyers and community activists and campaigners from riot-affected cities across
England. It feels part academic conference, part town hall debate. The
discussions so far have been lively and passionate.

12.44pm: Batmanghelidjh says the Guardian should now start looking at children's
services in poor communities.

Penny Young of NatSen social research says their study also looked at what
protected people from getting involved and what made it more likely to make them
get involved. "People weren't going out rioting because of their poverty; it
made it more likely for them to get involved once they saw what was going on."

12.36pm: Sherlock says to Brake she has made specific recommendations to local
authorities on how they can handle returning rioters. She says she is waiting
for the government to respond to these.

12.32pm: Simon Jay, one of the researchers on the project, challenges Theresa
May over her comment that people had to learn that actions have consequences.
Jay says that if you are in the financial sector "selling very bad policies to
people, making decisions that risk the collapse of our economy ... you get
rewarded for it ... You can carry on without any regard for anyone else." But
poor young people get criminalised for doing the same thing.

Tom Brake, the Lib Dem MP, says some of the sentences were disproportionate but
the real challenge has that in Croydon for example 200-300 people were
imprisoned and will soon be returning. "The challenge for all of us is what is
going to be in place when these people start returning ... Otherwise we've got a
hard core of young people returning to their towns and cities who have nothing."
Webb asks him what is the answer. Brake says the government is changing the law
relating to rehabilitation of offenders and this may help.

Has the coalition got a proper sense of what happened and what it should do,
Webb asks. Brake replies:

I don't agree with what the home secretary has just said ... It is very clear
that there is a large number of principally young people who feel very
disconnected who governments have failed and we have to address the root cause
of the problems.

12.27pm: Baroness Sherlock says most of the victims she has talked to who
mentioned sentencing "probably felt like they weren't long enough". She also
points out that many of the harsh sentences were handed out in the immediate
aftermath of the riots when many people felt they could carry on - and they were
meant to act as an immediate deterrent in that sense. But some victims in
Salford felt concerned about what would happen when people given heavy sentences
returned to the community. She says she is worried about people coming out of
prison unable to get jobs because of their criminal records. Unwin agrees. "I
think we need to be very worried about 2013 when they are back on the streets."

12.23pm: Stella Creasy, the Labour MP from Walthamstow, asks a question from the
floor. Creasy says nothing excuses the riots but we do need to understand why
they took place.

A youth worker from Manchester points out that Mark Duggan - whose shooting by
police sparked the first riots in Tottenham - has not been mentioned very much
today. He also points out the "disproportionate" sentences handed down by courts
in relation to the riots.

Ryder says the courts rejected the feeling that the sentences were too high,
saying the courts felt it was very important to send out a message of deterrent.
Most appeals have failed, he says. Ryder says: "A focus on deterrent is a very
risky strategy" because it leads to a "one size fits all" treatment of
offenders. The courts have sophisticated ways of dealing with different types of
offenders, but this risks losing that, he says.

12.17pm: Catherine Mayer from Time magazine points out some of the words that
Theresa May used - "thugs" and "louts" - and links this to young people telling
Batmanghelidjh the government hated them. Batmanghelidjh says that during the
leaders' debates references to children were only related to their economic
potential or "feral" youths causing trouble. Nick Clegg did say we should have
more youth centres, she says.

12.13pm: Unwin says many poor communities show a level of morality and
solidarity that richer communities do not show.

Ryder mentions Iain Duncan Smith's attack on the "get rich or die trying"
culture, saying this is a concern of the left too. Banks take part in this way
of thinking too, he says: "Get rich or the bank goes under."

Webb says the victims of the riots will not sympathise with this.

12.10pm: Morality changes according to context, Batmanghelidjh says. The ones
who did not go and riot had "social capital" - college, jobs - and "had a chance
to weigh up what was going to benefit them more". Others had "nothing left to
engage with in society".

12.08pm: Phillip Blond of Respublika, the so-called "Red Tory", says there is
nothing in the conclusions of the report that one would be surprised by. But the
riots were new in the way they were organised and their ubiquity. There is a
rightwing view of these riots, too: "a language of morality and family", he
says. He points out the difference in the proportion of public and rioters who
blame the rioters' families.

12.04pm: Justin Webb asks Baroness Sherlock if the dichotomy between criminals
and victims is in this case unhelpful. Sherlock says there are not two
categories of people, but there are people who committed crimes and people who
had crimes committed against them.

She talks about people who did not riot, despite sharing many of the grievances
of the Guardian/LSE rioters. People said they had a baby or a job, and so had a
"stake" in society, or adults or mentors dissuaded them. Some said they knew the
difference between right and wrong.

12.01pm: Ryder says if people perceive what they are doing as protest we may
have to rethink what we think of as protest.

11.59am: Matthew Ryder of Matrix Chambers speaks next. "Separating out victim
and perpetrator is often a false thing to do." Victims and perpetrators can
often live in the same family, in the same communities, he says, acknowledging
that this will be taken as a criticism of May's speech. He adds:

Excuse and explanation - to try to conflate them ... is a recipe for huge
problems. Explanations are vital. The concerns of the victims are vital but the
victims can only take you a limited distance in understanding ... why it
happened.

11.54am: Batmanghelidjh says she knew in advance that "the streets were going to
blow up" and a sense of "revenge" was brewing. Young people kept saying to her:
"The government hates us."

Many people in England were scared during the riots, but many young people are
"terrified practically every day of their lives," she says. "We talk about
hearing from victims, but many of these young people are victimised every day of
their lives."

She says Britain has a history of "honouring human dignity" but young people
feel "disrespect" from representatives of power now. "They have started being
very rude to the client group," she says. To gain more status, poor young people
demonstrate "the level of violence" they can carry out.

"Much of what we call criminal here is actually survival behaviour," she says.
She is getting quite a lot of applause throughout her short speech.

11.51am: Despite May's uncompromising language, her announcement that ACPO, the
Association of Chief Police Officers, will investigate best practice in stop and
search is new and indicates that perhaps she takes that aspect of the findings
more seriously than her speech would suggest.

11.49am: Theresa May leaves immediately to quite a noisy reception from the
crowd. Next is a panel discussion with:

Camila Batmanghelidjh, founder & director, Kids CompanyMatthew Ryder QC,
barrister, Matrix ChambersBaroness (Maeve) Sherlock, riot communities and
victims' panel 2011Julia Unwin CBE, chief executive, Joseph Rowntree Foundation

In response to May, Unwin says: "If we say that any understanding of why people
did it is only an excuse, we are really missing the point."

11.47am: She praises the courts' harsh punishments in the wake of the riots.
"Now criminals know what will happen - actions will have consequences."

She says the Home Office is supporting an anti-gang initiative.

The study found gangs played no significant role in the riots.

What the report tells me more than anything is that the rioters have still not
accepted responsibility for their actions ... It is an individual's choice
whether or not to riot ... We should not just accept excuses ... Most of all we
should listen to the victims ... It is the victims who matter most.

11.44am: Do the police need to change their tactics, on stop and search and
community relations? I strongly believe stop and search should be used
proportionally, she says, but if it is used courteously it can be an important
tool. I have asked ACPO to look at best practice in stop and search, she says.
Where there are problems with the police, we need to look at policing - but two
thirds of those interviewed had been cautioned or convicted. She says she would
be angry if the police were leaving career criminals alone. "They are exactly
the sort of people the police should be targeting."

She says the "payback" that the rioters talked about was because they did not
like the police because the police had stopped them committing earlier crimes.
"Are they really being stopped too much? I don't think so."

11.41am: She says it was "right" the research was done, but wants to talk about
its limitations. "The riots weren't about protests, unemployment, cuts ... They
were about instant gratification." There is a lot of loud discontent from the
audience at this. Justin Webb tries to quieten them down so the home secretary
can speak.

11.39am: She says the rioters "tried to excuse or rationalise their inexcusable
and irrational actions". The vast majority "were not protesting, they were
thieving", she says.

There were no riots in many other cities such as Sheffield which face similar
problems. Why did riots not happen there.

"No one got killed in Sheffield," a man in the audience interjects.

11.37am: May says last summer's riots were among the most "disgraceful" ever
seen on our streets. She says it is important to understand the riots in order
to prevent them happening again. She says the LSE/Guardian report adds to the
evidence that has so far been found.

11.36am:Theresa May, the home secretary, has just arrived and is about to speak.

11.11am: Some speakers have referred to an article in the London Evening
Standard yesterday, in which Conservative MP and LSE governor Margot James
criticised the Reading the Riots study, saying:

For the LSE researchers to automatically conclude that this was anger at
treatment at the hands of the police without commenting on the likelihood that a
lot of people are going to post-rationalise that behaviour and find excuses for
it was naive.

In my opinion, criminals may well seek to justify their actions by ascribing
motivations that were not there at the time, but that does not mean we should
not listen to what they say - after that we can make our own minds up about how
much value we place on that.

The Daily Mail also criticised the study on Saturday, writing:

Now, you or I - like everyone apart from the Guardianistas of this world - knows
what you have just read [the key findings of the study] is little more than
left-wing claptrap dressed up as serious academic research. Apart from anything
else, the majority of those the researchers spoke to had criminal convictions.
Not exactly breaking news that the Guardian found that criminals hate the
police.

Whether they already had criminal records or not (63% of Guardian/LSE
respondents had previously received a caution or reprimand and over 70% had been
previously arrested), many of the rioters spoke about perceived injustice and
aggression in the police's day-to-day treatment of them, and presented this as a
motivation for their rioting. If police want to try to prevent riots happening
again, they could conceivably try to address this - for example in the seemingly
discourteous and aggressive way stop and search is carried out, which many of
the people we spoke to said alienated and angered them.

Today Scotland Yard has released CCTV footage of over 200 suspects still wanted
by the police in connection to the riots.

11.00am: Webb is criticised from the floor for a perceived unwillingness to
listen to what the rioters are saying, But Webb says the conference is not
taking place in a vacuum and part of his role is to provide a breadth of opinion
here.

Lewis says "people don't like what we were told" by the rioters. But "we can't
be held accountable for that".

10.57am: Paul Lewis points out that opportunism was very important too. People
felt that this was "a moment in time that they could exploit ... They saw or
perceived a suspension of law."

The reason that we do this is because we want to avoid a repeat.

Webb tries to return to his point that the results may have been skewed because
of "speaking to these people in this way".

Symeon Brown says the researchers asked open questions and some of the
interviews went on to very long time. "They show a consistent narrative and
anyone who rejects this is not an empiricist because the evidence speaks for
itself."

10.52am: Justin Webb asks if we have over-emphasised socio-political reasons
given by the rioters and underplayed "sheer, wanton, nasty criminality". If you
sit a rioter down and give them the chance to come up with such excuses, they
will, he suggests.

Tim Newburn says this is an important and legitimate question. "Are we simply by
doing this allowing people who really shouldn't have a voice to have a voice?
... To which my answer is straightforwardly 'no'." He says for those who read
beyond the headlines of the research they find a nuanced picture of people's
accounts of the riots. He says the riots were "reprehensible".

I don't think anyone can have watched them and been anything other than appalled
and shocked, he says.

He rejects Webb's idea that the rioters may have not been telling the truth. He
says they were "believable narratives" and it was striking that the same issues
came up in so many interviews across the country.

Unfair and aggressive treatment by the police was a major part of this, Newburn
says.

10.48am: Underneath the "convoluted reasons" people gave for rioting, there are
"fundamental narratives", he says. The issue of power between the people who
took part and the state is one of the most important of these, Brown says.

10.46am: Some of the rioters were very aware of politics and policies that
affected them, Brown says.

Others were very clear that they went out to steal and make money, he says.

10.42am: "I don't think any serious person can discount the fact that these
riots happened in poor communities," Brown says.

He also talks about the feeling of unity and empowerment that many of the
rioters felt during the disorder. This was a huge factor in explaining how the
riots grew, Brown says.

It was not a "conscious form of protest ... or political activism", he says, but
power was a real issue.

10.35am:Symeon Brown, one of the lead researchers on the project, speaks next,
trying to answer the question: "What motivated the rioters?"

He talks about the events that sparked the riots in Tottenham, where he is from,
and seeing the first incidents in the disorder first-hand.

He talks about the concept of rebellion and injustice in motivating some of the
rioters. Others took advantage of the fact that the police seemed absent or
powerless, he says. Anti-police sentiment was common to all areas, he says.

There was a feeling among many rioters that "the government don't care about
us". Cuts to the educational maintenance allowance came up frequently.

10.32am: He shows maps of Manchester and Birmingham showing rioters coming in
from poorer suburbs to riot and loot in the centre. The picture is different in
London, though, where rich and poor can live "cheek by jowl" and there are many
different centres across the city.

He shows this video of rioters "commuting" from their homes to where the
disorder happened.

10.30am: Rogers points out that the prime minister was insistent that the riots
were not about poverty. But he runs through some of the figures showing the
rioters were disproportionately poor. (Again the figures are here.)

10.28am: He runs through some of the figures for those arrested, and the data
for the 270 rioters we interviewed. You can see all of this here.

10.25am: Rogers says that the network of court reporters who used to work around
the country "aren't there any more". But the courts still publish a court
register, which records the details of the cases and the results. He asked
courts if he could get hold of these and was told "no". So he went to the
Ministry of Justice, which sent an instruction out to every magistrates court in
the country telling them to give the details to us.

10.23am:Simon Rogers, who edits the Guardian's Datablog, is up next. He talks
about tracking down the data about those arrested and taken to court in
connection with the riots. He points out that there were great variations around
the country in what people were being charged with: in Croydon, for example, 73%
were charged with acquisitive crimes (ie theft), in Liverpool 75% were charged
with criminal damage.

10.18am: The conference is shown the above video on how the project was carried
out.

10.15am: Paul Lewis explains how the team used the courts database to find
rioters who might agree to be interviewed, but the 30 researchers we hired were
the key to getting so many to agree - 270 in the end.

10.09am: Lewis addresses the question of why we chose to focus on the rioters.
"In academia and journalism, if you want to find out why something truly
terrible has happened, arguably there is no better way than to ask those people
responsible for it," he says. It was also something no one else seemed to be
doing. The government's communities and victims' panel was not trying to explain
why the riots happened, he says. The Cabinet Office's research was similar, he
says, but most of the people they spoke to were not directly involved in the
riots, and many were in prison.

10.07am: The LSE's Tim Newburn takes up the story. He says he felt that in the
immediate aftermath of the riots there was "a rush to judgment" - politicians,
commentators and academics rushing to a final judgment: "sheer criminality"
primarily to do with gangs, with social media also responsible. The government
"set its face against the idea of a full-scale public inquiry", Newburn says.
"It's into that vacuum that Reading the Riots sought to step," he says. Not as
the final answer, but as a contribution.

10.03am:Paul Lewis, the Guardian's special projects editor, is speaking now. He
says that the reporters "on the front line" during the riots "really struggled
to understand why it happened".

What we really struggled with was explaining why.

He says that colleague James Ball spotted a blog about the study into the 1967
Detroit riots, a collaboration between the University of Michigan and the
Detroit Free Press newspaper. That gave Lewis the idea of working with a
university to produce a serious piece of social research.

10.00am: Webb says he was behind an elderly black man in the crowd and wanted to
ask him about his lifetime of oppression. But when the man turned around it was
Sir Trevor McDonald.

9.57am: The conference has begun, with the BBC's Justin Webb making the opening
speech. He is talking about being there at the moment when Barack Obama was
chosen as the Democratic candidate for president in 2008.

9.56am: To respond to some of the early comments: TheotherWay and rudy2hats,
this project was very deliberately about interviewing the rioters. If you want
to try to prevent the riots happening again, you have to understand why they
happened in the first place. An important starting point is asking the people
who took part why they took part.

In the next phase of our study we will be interviewing others involved and
affected, from local communities to police and judges.

capoeiralover, it was rioting and looting. We have covered the looting
extensively, for example here.

9.49am: The hall is starting to fill up. Stella Creasy, the Labour MP for
Walthamstow, has just arrived.

9.29am:Here is the Guardian and LSE's 40-page report into the August riots,
which was published for the conference today.

8am: Last week the Guardian and the London School of Economics published Reading
the Riots, our groundbreaking study into the causes of the summer disorder. We
interviewed 270 rioters to try to understand why the riots happened and whether
they will occur again.

Today Ed Miliband, home secretary Theresa May, shadow home secretary Yvette
Cooper, Lynne Owens, the deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Louise
Casey, the former "respect tsar" who is leading the government's response to the
riots, Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger and others will all speak at a special
conference on our findings held at the LSE in central London.

Key members of the Reading the Riots team, such as Paul Lewis, the Guardian's
special projects editor, Prof Tim Newburn, who led the LSE's involvement, and
Prof Rob Procter of Manchester University, who led the team analysing tweets
from the riots, will also take part. Philip Meyer, whose study of the 1967
Detroit riots inspired ours, will address the conference by video-link.

I'll be covering the whole event here throughout the day.

Here is the full programme.

9.45amJustin Webb, journalist, BBC News

9.55amProfessor George Gaskell, deputy director, London School of Economics

10amAbout the Reading the Riots researchWhy was the research undertaken? What
processes were used? How was the data collated?Paul Lewis, special projects
editor, the GuardianProfessor Tim Newburn, head, department of social policy,
London School of Economics

10.20amResearch findings: Who were the rioters? Where did the rioters come from?
What sort of background did they have? What have we learnt about race and
ethnicity of rioters?Simon Rogers, news editor, the Guardian

10.35amResearch findings: What motivated the rioters? Why were the rioters
involved? What does the research tell us about deprivation and social exclusion?
Symeon Brown, senior researcher, Reading the Riots research team

11.30amTheresa May, home secretary

11.40amPanel discussion: The panel respond to the research findings.Camila
Batmanghelidjh, founder & director, Kids CompanyMatthew Ryder QC, barrister,
Matrix ChambersBaroness (Maeve) Sherlock, riot communities and victims' panel
2011Julia Unwin CBE, chief executive, Joseph Rowntree Foundation

2pmEd Miliband, Labour leader

2.20pmResearch findings: What impact did social media have on the riots?James
Ball, data journalist, the GuardianProfessor Rob Procter, director, Manchester
eResearch Centre, University of ManchesterDr Farida Vis, lecturer in media and
communication, University of Leicester2.35pmResearch findings: What role did
gangs play in the riots?Fiona Bawdon and Marie-Aimee Brajeux, Reading the Riots
research team

2.50pmResearch findings: Police and community relations - a factor in the riots?
Alex Burch, LSE analyst, Reading the Riots research team

3.35pmVideo addressPhilip Meyer, journalist, Detroit riots 1967

3.40pmPanel discussion: The panel discuss the policy implications of the
research findingsLouise Casey, director-general, Troubled Families Unit,
Department of Communities and Local GovernmentYvette Cooper, shadow home
secretaryLynne Owens, deputy commissioner, Metropolitan policeJacob Sakil,
former "young mayor" of Lewisham

4.40pmNext steps for the researchPaul LewisProf Tim Newburn

4.55pmAlan Rusbridger, editor, the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                            October 31, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

What's trending?

SECTION: BITS AND BYTES; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 339 words


I predict a riot:

Congratulations to the San Francisco Giants on wining the World Series. And
thanks to their "fans" who took to the streets a! er their baseball team's Game
7 win over the Kansas City Royals for tearing the place up. It's nice to have a
little breathing room up here in B.C. where participants in the 2011 Stanley Cup
riot are still being processed through the court system.

White people only riot over important things, like baseball #Ferguson - @Wisco

America: where peaceful protesting in #Ferguson is labeled as a riot, and actual
riotous behavior is labeled a World Series celebration. - @LeftSentThis

@jaymohr37 San Francisco is actually a very convenient city for a riot.. It's
really easy to turn over Smart Cars Priuses #JayMohrSports - @YFPFP

Can anyone in San Francisco recommend a good place to riot? Nothing crazy, maybe
flip over a few cars or. burn some stuff. #wheninrome - @chris_olbekson

Rioting because your team just won the World Series is logically analogous to
urinating on housepets because you just got a raise. #sfgiants -
@TrainedHedonist

So here's the plan: The A's win the World Series next year, and people riot and
destroy the Colosseum. Then they HAVE to build a new one. - @TheKings_Slayer

Oh my god, why do people riot over SPORTS? I'm looking at you #SanFrancisco.
Terrible things are happening, riot over that. - @RachelLiez

WTH?! #SanFrancisco #riot - @LucyLyrical

Vancouver's like: "San Francisco had a 'riot' ? That's cute." - @TimSwan_

Not gonna lie, these riot photos of San Francisco make me a bit homesick for
Detroit. - @renaud

THE CITY THAT WILL RIOT HARDER SHOULD WIN. #WorldSeries #Game7 - @paradeofflesh

I have new respect for San Francisco as a city. Thats a proper blue collar riot.
I hope i dont find out the burning couch was from West Elm. - @danielgoodman

from what i can gather san francisco is having a riot because a giant beat up
lorde - @tinybaby

Why do people riot, shoot people, and set things on fire when they're
celebrating? #worldseries #sanfranpsycho - @claytonbrooks

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);;  (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

London Riots Turned Into Dramatic Stage Play

BYLINE: THR Staff

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 351  words


The events of the London riots earlier this year have been turned into a stage
production, the Associated Press reports.

A 250-seat London venue, Tricycle Theatre, opened The Riots earlier this week,
recreating the mayhem that took place over four nights in August through
real-life testimonies from residents, police, politicans, community employees
and rioters.

Director Nicholas Kent said that The Riots was done with the intention of acting
as a public inquiry into the riots. The government has not held an inquiry thus
far.

STORY: London Riot Footage Should Be Handed Over to Police: PM David Cameron

"It didn't have to happen," Kent told the AP. "That's the thing I totally took
away from our work on the play. It seemed to us important to explore the reasons
for the riots and people's motivations and what happened and what our response
was to it as Londoners -- and how we could prevent something like that happening
again."

The riots took place after a fatal shooting in the working class neighborhood of
Tottenham of 29-year-old Mark Duggan on Aug. 4. The Riots spotlights the events
that came shortly thereafter.

Gillian Slovo, who penned the story, and her team of researchers had 56 hours
worth of interviews with police officers on duty in Tottenham that night,
community leaders, rioters and a man who was left without a home due to arson.
Two people who were sent to prison for taking part in the riots wrote letters
after Tricycle advertised in a prison paper.

STORY: London Riots Damage Jamie Oliver's Birmingham Restaurant

Slovo defended the decision to include their voices in the production, saying in
an interview, "I do think it's important for us to listen and to see how they
got caught up, what they think about it afterwards and what provoked them to do
it. Because otherwise how can you make sure this won't happen again?."

The production also depicts how different the riots felt depending on a person's
perspective.

The Tricycle has been known to put on numerous productions based on true-to-life
events, including the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Riots will play through Dec. 10.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Reading the riots: Guardian/LSE investigation: 'There is an urgent need
for rigorous social research'

BYLINE: Paul Lewis Special projects editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words


The causes and consequences of the English riots last month, the most serious
bout of civil unrest in a generation, will be examined in a study by the
Guardian and the London School of Economics.

Researchers will interview hundreds of people who were involved, in the first
empirical study of the rioting and looting.

As well as surveys of those who took part in the disorder, the research will
include interviews with residents, police and the judiciary, and an advanced
analysis of more than 2.5 million riot-related Twitter messages.

The study - Reading the Riots - is supported by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation
and the Open Society Foundations. The project, announced on the eve of the
one-month anniversary of the outbreak of trouble in Tottenham, north London,
will seek to better understand why riots then spread to other parts of the
capital and cities across England. Four consecutive nights of looting and arson
left five people dead with more than 2,000 suspects arrested. Police anticipate
that investigations to identify perpetrators of the disorder will last several
years.

Reading the Riots is modelled on an acclaimed survey conducted in the aftermath
of the Detroit riots in 1967. The findings of that study, the result of a
groundbreaking collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and
Michigan's Institute for Social Research, challenged prevailing assumptions
about the cause of the unrest. Prof Phil Meyer, who co-ordinated the Detroit
study, will advise on the research into the English riots.

The LSE's involvement will be led by Prof Tim Newburn, head of the university's
social policy department, which has the highest possible research rating in the
UK.

Newburn, a former president of the British Society of Criminology and an adviser
to the Metropolitan police and Home Office, said: "There is an urgent need for
some rigorous social research which will look, without prejudice, at the causes
and the consequences of the recent riots.

"Crucially, it is vital that we speak with those involved in the disturbances
and those affected by them to try to understand any lessons for public policy."

The government has resisted calls for a public inquiry into the August riots.
There have been no attempts to systematically speak to those involved.

Reading the Riots will bring together a team of leading academics and experts.
At the heart of the project are two unique databases compiled by the Guardian
over the last month. The first comprises more than 1,100 defendants, or over
70%, of those who have appeared in court.

The second database contains 2.5m riot-related tweets. Executives at Twitter's
headquarters in California authorised the collation of tweets, pooled from
hashtags relating to the riots and their aftermath. Julia Unwin, chief executive
of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, said: "The qualitative and quantitative data
the Guardian has in its unique possession is invaluable."

Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian News and Media editor-in-chief, said: "The
Guardian continues to make great strides in the field of data journalism, and
the volume of information and statistics we have gathered since the riots
erupted this time last month is vast. As a newspaper we can draw objective
conclusions from this data, but working with LSE will enable us to slot these
facts into the wider social picture and present a more comprehensive look at
what caused these events to unfold."

Captions:

Prof Phil Meyer co-ordinated the Detroit study and will advise on the research
into the English riots

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday

One year later, Stanley Cup riot just a distant memory

BYLINE: GARY MASON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS: COLUMN; LEGACY; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 706 words


gmason@globeandmail.com

It was one year ago today that the citizens of Vancouver began to put the
Stanley Cup riot behind them.

That is when dozens of them arrived downtown, some with brooms, others with
shovels, most with gloves, to begin the cleanup from the mayhem of the night
before. Some began writing on the blank sheets of plywood that were covering the
shattered windows of The Bay department store.

The opportunity to put into words what they were feeling at that moment was
wonderfully cathartic. More than anything, their expressions of anger and
disgust but also of defiance - the determination not to allow the riot to define
their city in any way - proved to be prophetic.

Contrary to the predictions of those who said the riot would leave deep and
lingering psychological scars on the city, it did nothing of the sort. While the
people of Vancouver and surrounding area won't ever forget June 15, 2011, most
are no longer consumed by it. They long ago put it behind them to be preoccupied
by things that matter more - their jobs, their family, the shaky state of the
world.

Even the sentencing of those convicted of taking part in the riot barely moves
the interest-meter of most people these days.

There are many reasons why the riot didn't have the deep and lasting impact that
many forecast.

Firstly, no one died. In many respects, that remains one of the true miracles of
that evening, given the bottles that were being thrown around, the fights that
were breaking out, the guns and knives that were undoubtedly being carried by
some of those who were there.

Had three or four people been killed, then the riot would be remembered quite
differently.

When I think of events likely to prompt a visceral reaction from people in Metro
Vancouver years from now, the death of Robert Dziekanski leaps to mind. The
footage of his writhing body on the floor of Vancouver International Airport
after being tasered by an RCMP officer left a far more indelible mark on the
minds of most people than the Stanley Cup riot ever will.

Secondly, the damage, while significant to some businesses, was limited to a few
million dollars. While that's nothing to sneer at, it's minimal compared to the
destruction caused by other riots or by natural disasters such as earthquakes.
In some riots in the U.S. - Detroit comes to mind - you have often seen evidence
of the ruin that took place years later. Buildings have remained burnt out,
boarded up and unoccupied.

Walk downtown Vancouver today and there is little sign of what happened last
year.

Thirdly, there was no great underlying cause for the riot. It was fed by booze
and ignited by the outcome of a hockey game. This wasn't the Rodney King riots
that took place in Los Angeles, where race relations were at the core. In some
respects, the effect of that riot is still felt in the U.S. because the issue at
the heart of it has not been completely resolved.

"The Stanley Cup riot had no political dimension," says Rima Wilkes, associate
professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia. "There were no
quote, unquote, sides in the way other riots have. There were no divisions in
the community at the heart of it, no underlying issues connected to the life of
the city itself."

Finally, cities, especially big ones, are remarkably resilient; a testament to
the power and durability of the human spirit. Cities bounce back from calamity,
often stronger than ever. When you think of the inspiring recovery that New York
has made from 9/11, it is perhaps no surprise that Vancouver would recuperate so
quickly and completely from an event that doesn't even rate mention in the same
breath as what happened south of border in 2001.

The Stanley Cup riot was many things but a tragedy it was not.

Earthquakes that level cities are tragedies. Tsunamis that wipe out towns and
kill thousands are tragedies. Losing a child in an accident or through illness
is a tragedy.

Years from now, last year's riot will be reduced to historical footnote. It will
become a point of reference in the timeline of a city. The images will endure,
to be pulled out and broadcast for anniversary sake. But the city itself will
have long since moved on.

In fact, it already has.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

Kombu Shibu denies role in Cheriyathura riot

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: THIRUVANATHAPURAM


THIRUVANATHAPURAM, May 4 -- Notoriuos criminal Shibu alias Kombu Shibu, who is
in police custody in connection with the Cheriyathura riot of 2009, gave his
statement before the judicial commission inquiring into the riot that he was not
involved in the riot and the subsequent police firing which claimed six lives.

Shibu said that on May 16, the day the riot broke out, he was involved in a
brawl at Beemapally. Following the incident, he remained confined to his house
the next day also. He said that he learned about the riot and the police firing
on May 17 only after the incidents took place.

He also said in his statement that he was framed by the police to save several
bigwigs who were behind the riot. The police had arrested Shibu accusing him of
responsible for the riots.

He had allegedly attacked a vendor at Beemapally for refusing to pay the money
demanded by him, which led to the riot between two communities in the area. The
police had also charged as many as 27 cases in connection with the riot.

Meanwhile, the police invited criticism after they took Shibu to the office of
the DCP, allegedly in violation of the law, before producing him before the
commission. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

Banda lags behind as voting extended

BYLINE: Rex Chikoko, Nation Correspondent in Lilongwe, Malawi -1

LENGTH: 820  words


Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

Voting in Malawi's heated elections spilled into a second day today after riots
sparked by the late opening of polling stations marred a vote seen as a test of
President Joyce Banda's scandal-tainted rule.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2014 Nation Media Group
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

England riots: all-night courts praised, but were they a publicity stunt?

BYLINE: Fiona Bawdonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 822 words

ABSTRACT

Fiona Bawdon: We need help from those involved in dealing with riot cases who
are willing to be interviewed for phase two of the Reading the Riots research

FULL TEXT

The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, made a morale-boosting visit
to Highbury magistrates court, north London, at about 4am during one of its
night sittings at the height of the August riots, and later praised the
efficient response to the disorder.

In the appeal court judgment on riot sentences (which generally upheld the lower
courts' ruling), the lord chief justice praised the "committed and dedicated"
way in which courts rose to the challenge of the riots - and singled out those
which had sat through the night.

Those positive views are not universally shared, however. One Tottenham-based
solicitor, who was "on his feet for 36 hours", at two London magistrates courts
dealing with riot cases, says the DPP might have gained a different impression
if his trip to Highbury had included a visit to the cells under the court.

Rather than finding efficiency under pressure, he would have witnessed near
chaos and conditions verging on the unsanitary, as prisoners were crammed three
to a cell with no toilet facilities.

"The CPS was totally disorganised. I saw an argument between two prosecutors who
were working over night at one point," says the solicitor.

"Things weren't much better in the courts, defendants were remanded in custody
on the basis of no evidence, with the judges rubber stamping prosecution
applications and all but ignoring the safeguards of the Bail Act", he adds.

Others dismissed the night courts as a political stunt, which only increased the
sense of panic and served little useful purpose.

Malcolm Fowler, who practises in Birmingham, says his local magistrates court is
generally so under worked it could have accommodated the riot cases in regular
sessions.

"By mid-morning on most days, you would expect to see tumbleweed drifting down
the court corridors; so bereft of work is the judiciary. For once the courts
might have been operating at something approaching their full capacity."

The initial response of the courts and police to the riots can be characterised
as "chaos on stilts", he adds.

A London defence solicitor, Julian Young, agrees there was no need for the
extended sittings. The riot cases could easily have been divvied up in courts
across London.

Young said chaos reigned at a City of Westminster magistrates court all night
sitting from midnight until 6.30am.

It was all but impossible for defence solicitors to counter CPS objections to
bail, such as by providing approved bail addresses.

The response of the courts was not robust efficiency, but one of "blind panic"
from the judges and prosecutors, says Young.

Since the riots, most comment on the criminal justice system's response has
focused on the level of sentencing, with some critics - including prosecutors -
concerned that defendants who played a minor role were given disproportionately
harsh sentences.

What has received far less attention is the wider implications for justice. Some
fear the unchallenged claim that the night courts were a success will revive the
idea of twilight sittings as a regular feature - an idea long opposed by the Law
Society.

Fowler says: "Unless we remain vigilante, all the bad features of riot case
process and courts will be foisted upon us as a desirable template, with rule of
law and due process concerns swept aside as so much tedious sophistry."

The next phase of the Guardian/LSE's Reading the Riots research aims to unravel
how the criminal justice system responded and what lessons can be learned.

The research will include in depth interviews with those at the sharp end of its
response. There will also be a series of "town hall-style" meetings with the
communities worst affected by the worst bout of civil unrest for a generation.

Phase one of the research has prompted a national review of the way police use
stop and search, after findings that anger at the police was a significant
factor in fuelling the disorder.

Speaking at the Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots conference, the home secretary
Theresa May said: "I strongly believe that stop and search should be used
proportionately, without prejudice, and with the support of local communities
... and I have asked the Association of Chief Police Officers to look at best
practice on stop and search."

After interviewing 270 rioters in phase one, phase two will include interviews
with police officers - from command level to those on the front line - as well
with the judiciary, prosecutors and defence lawyers.

The Reading the Riots team would like to hear from those in the criminal justice
system who had substantial involvement in dealing with riot cases and are
willing to take part in a confidential research interview.

reading.the.riots@guardian.co.uk

Fiona Bawdon is a senior researcher on the Reading the Riots project and a
freelance journalist

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            December 23, 2013 Monday

Fresh row over Rahul remark on UP riots;
Congress vice-president says those who orchestrated Muzaffarnagar violence don't
want the victims to return home

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 600  words


New Delhi: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's statement on Muzaffarnagar
riot victims has created a controversy once again. While exhorting the victims
to return to their homes, he said those who engineered communal riots "don't
want you to return to your villages". Earlier in October, Rahul had claimed that
Pakistan's ISI was trying to recruit disgruntled riot-affected youngsters to
carry out its nefarious designs. He had said intelligence inputs revealed that
some ISI agents were in touch with riot victims.

Meanwhile, protestors believed to be belonging to the Muslim community showed
Rahul black flags while he was returning to Muzaffarnagar after visiting a
relief camp at Shamil. Congress was quick to allege that the ruling Samajwadi
Party in UP had stage-managed the protests.

His latest statement during his closely guarded visit to relief camps for those
affected by the recent communal riots has angered the Muslim community leaders,
who see him as someone far from reality. "Nobody wants to stay in this chilling
cold in relief camps. We are not here out for any benefit or affection. Several
children have died here. Instead of creating an atmosphere for our return, Rahul
has put salt on our wounds," says Maulana Mufti Zulikar Ali, head of imams'
organisation in Uttar Pradesh.

Gandhi also held interactions with riot victims at nearby Khurgan camp where
Congress has put up stalls for medical assistance and treatment. "Those who
engineer communal riots want that you should not go back. This benefits them.
They want to keep you away from your villages. I know it is difficult and there
is also fear there but we have to think beyond. This will not be good in the
long run," he told the riot-affected people. "The message goes out that you will
not go back to your villages. Those fanning communal riots want precisely this
to happen," the Congress vice-president said. The victims told him unless those
guilty of orchestrating riots are not punished and an atmosphere of security is
not created, it is difficult for them to return.

At present, more than 25,000 people are staying in various relief camps in
Muzaffarnagar district.

Gohar Siddiqui, spokesperson of Jamait-e-ulema- Hind, described Rahul's remarks
as childish. "Making such remarks second time in a row shows his attitude and
understanding," he told dna on phone from Muzaffarnagar.

"Earlier, he mentioned ISI's hand in Muzaffarnagar riot and now he is asking the
riot victims to return to their houses. I have to say that Rahul Gandhi makes
statements without realising its implications. Such a senior leader should not
make statement before ascertaining facts," Siddiqui said.

"People living in these make-shift camps had lost their family members, and
their houses were burnt. And all these was perpetrated on them by their
neighbours. Unless, all those responsible for the massacre are punished, they
will never feel safe to go back to their villages," he added.

Siddiqui also said that though the district administration has registered more
than 500 FIRs, many accused are still roaming free. Muzammeel, a social
activist, said that now the district administration is also asking people
staying in relief camps to return to their villages.

Communal riots tore through the western Uttar Pradesh town of Muzaffarnagar in
September this year, leaving nearly 60 people dead and close to 40,000 homeless.

Out in the cold

25,000 The number of

people living in relief camps in Muzaffarnagar

60 The number of people killed in the riots

40,000 The number of people rendered homeless

500 The number of FIRs registered after the riots

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

Improved race riot markers unveiled

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words


Springfield has spruced up eight historical markers commemorating the
Springfield 1908 race riot.

Seven of the markers are rectangular concrete stands stationed near the sites of
significant riot events. An eighth marker is a plaque secured to the east side
of a large brick kiosk on the south end of the Old Capitol Plaza.

The seven concrete markers have recently been wrapped with black, vinyl-like
sleeves with commemorative wording. The city also has placed commemorative black
banners on lampposts near each of these markers. Smaller versions of the banners
have been placed near the eighth marker.

On Aug. 14, 1908, a white mob, angry after being kept from lynching two black
inmates in the county jail, turned against black residents and businesses in
Springfield. After two days of rioting, seven were dead, including two black men
who were lynched, and dozens of homes and businesses were destroyed. The riot
led to the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People.

In the early 1990s, two Springfield schoolgirls began a campaign to raise
awareness of the riot. As a result of their efforts and others, including civil
rights activist and riot researcher Velma Carey, who died last year, the markers
were erected in 1994.

"I just know she would be very happy," said Carey's daughter, Carolyn Blackwell,
who attended a Friday morning unveiling of the newly wrapped marker at Seventh
and Washington streets. "When she was still alive, sprucing up the markers was
one of the things she wanted done."

The wrappings and banners cost about $5,600 altogether, according to Tim Farley,
executive director of the Springfield Visitors and Convention Bureau. Farley
said the city picked up some of the cost, but state tourism grants covered the
rest.

Farley said the wrappings will stay on for about a year, at which point the city
will consider rewrapping them.

Beverly Peters, chairwoman of the city's race riot commission, said the markers
and banners are part of the city's efforts to commemorate the riot. The
commission also is working on a series of interviews with riot experts that will
run on the city's public access television station. She also said plans are in
the works for an event that will take place in mid-August to coincide with the
anniversary of the riot.

On Aug. 1, a temporary ninth marker will be erected at Union Square Park as a
stand-in for a Preston Jackson sculpture honoring the riot to be installed early
next year.

On the Web

To learn more about the Springfield 1908 race riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/raceriot/.

To learn about events commemorating the riot, visit
www.visit-springfieldillinois.com/Race-Riots/default.asp.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

Alderman: I don't support Riot Fest's return to Humboldt Park

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1190 words


April 30--Roughly seven months after Riot Fest, some residents are fuming over
the lingering damage -- caused by a mix of rain and heavy foot traffic--to
Humboldt Park and the local alderman says he doesn't want the three-day music
festival to return to the neighborhood this year.

"I am exceptionally disappointed at the Riot Fest organizers for the mess they
left at the park last year and their shallow and hollow promises to restore the
park," Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) said. "I don't support them coming back."

Riot Fest founder Michael Petryshyn in a statement issued Thursday said he was
"extremely surprised" at Maldonado's comments since the alderman supported the
festival in the past.

"Due to the economic benefits Riot Fest brings to many 26th Ward businesses, the
hundreds of thousands of dollars Riot Fest has donated to ward charities, our
support in his reelection, and more importantly, job creation in a ward that has
sorely lacked new job development, the Alderman and Riot Fest have been on the
same page in shining a positive light on our culturally rich and magnetic
neighborhood," Petryshyn said.

That "support in his reelection" included a $1,500 contribution from Riot Fest
to the Citizens for Maldonado in August 2014. Maldonado won reelection in
February.

RedEye is a sponsor of Riot Fest this year, like it was last year.

September's music festival marked the third time Riot Fest was held in Humboldt
Park. But in 2014 the footprint for the venue expanded to much of the park
bordered by North Avenue to the north, Division Street to the south, California
Avenue to the east and Kedzie Avenue to the west.

Petryshyn agreed that some areas needed additional landscaping maintenance.

Maldonado said the festival has been disruptive to other park users. For
example, there was no public access to the baseball diamonds or the fieldhouse
in the days leading up to the event and following the event, he said.

Petryshyn pointed to the decision to expand the fest's footprint to include
low-lying parts of the park at Maldonado's direction is what caused the
displacement of baseball leagues and park users and the park grounds getting
damaged during the bad weather that weekend.

"Nonetheless, between the support we have received from the Mayor's office,
congressmen, state legislatures, county commissioners and the many Alderman in
having Riot Fest's permanent home in Humboldt Park -- just like Fiestas
Puertorriqueñas and Fiesta Boricua -- we are completely confident that any and
all future concerns from Alderman Maldonado will be handled in the fashion we
know best: as good neighbors," Petryshyn said in the statement.

The repairs, which included grading, reseeding, adding topsoil and soil
aeration, nearly tripled in cost from the prior year for a tally of $150,000,
according to Riot Fest, which paid for the repairs.

But patches of grass still are missing in areas.

Park repairs are ongoing, concert organizer Max Wagner said. "We'll keep doing
it until it gets fixed," he told residents at a recent Humboldt Park Advisory
Council meeting.

After a walk-through of the park this month, Riot Fest was asked to re-do
aeration and seeding of the patchy areas that got a lot of foot traffic during
the fest, he said. The cold weather didn't help the grass grow and neither did
the birds that flocked to the planted seeds as soon as the park thawed out from
winter, he said. There was also a two-week delay last year in getting the
landscaping contract for the post-fest repairs, he said.

To help prevent damage in the future -- should the park host the festival -- the
amount of ground covering, which look like durable plastic mats, would double to
protect the grass from foot and vehicular traffic but that would require laying
it down days in advance of the festival, he said.

In a letter to the Chicago Park District, the park's advisory council urged them
to address their concerns about the condition of park, the size and layout of
the festival and a post-event plan before a permit is granted for the festival,
which is set for Sept. 11-13 this year.

The Chicago Park District did not respond to questions about the repairs and the
future of Riot Fest.

Riot Fest has said it wanted to make Humboldt Park its permanent home. While
presale tickets already have been sold for this year's festival, those tickets
and the fest's website don't list Humboldt Park as the venue.

No permits have been granted yet for Riot Fest in Humboldt Park, which
organizers don't typically get until the week of the fest, Wagner said. There is
no multi-year permit agreement for Riot Fest like Lollapalooza has for Grant
Park.

Wagner said they intend to hold the festival at the park but don't want to use
land east of Humboldt Drive.

"We want to use about half the park. We want to scale it way back. We've agreed
to not grow the event any more. We simply don't want to sell any more tickets.
We don't want any more people. [We're] fine with capping it where it is," Wagner
said.

While park repairs remain an issue, other residents supported the return of Riot
Fest.  They credited them with boosting business and helping dispel the
perception of the neighborhood as being crime-ridden.

"Riot Fest is the icebreaker. We need people to come to Humboldt Park and see
the gangbanging days are long over," Richard Karwowski Sr., who has lived in
Humboldt Park for 12 years, told RedEye.

Karwowski doesn't want to see the park destroyed, but he believes Riot Fest is
committed to fixing the park. He said he sees the benefit of having Humboldt
Park host the event, pointing to a team of volunteers recruited by Riot Fest to
help clean the park on Earth Day and the donation of instruments for the park's
music program and at least $15,000 to the park advisory council.

"The first two festivals were perfect and nobody complained. The problems Riot
Fest is having in Humboldt Park is extremely minor. The grass regrows," he said.

Another criticism was that park activities were relocated to other areas of the
park or to other parks altogether following the festival.

"Currently I am in constant communication with the Chicago Park District and the
organizers of Riot Fest in a combined effort to get the necessary repairs
completed as expeditiously as possible, while resisting interference with the
ongoing park activities," Humboldt Park Advisory Council president Amy Vega said
in a statement. The council is a group of residents who volunteers to advise the
park district on services, programs and issues regarding the operation of the
park.

Some residents expressed hesitation about Riot Fest coming back to Humboldt
Park, questioning whether the park is the right location for the big fest.

"If the park district is going to commit to having this be an annual thing, then
they also have to show the diligence to getting the park back in as good a
condition as they can as soon as possible for all the people that use it,"
resident Brian Hacker told RedEye. "If they can't, then maybe they should
consider an alternative [site]."

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150430-1RC-Alderman-I-don-t-support-Riot
-Fest-s-return-to-Humboldt-Park-0430-20150430

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

The riot act becomes an instrument for all reasons, and China tackles corruption

BYLINE: CUT & PASTE

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 569 words


From Canberra to Syria, from Rio to Yorkshire, the Riot Act of George I comes in
handy

Former lawyer Malcolm Turnbull gets stern with his MPs and tells Neil Mitchell
on Melbourne's 3AW: I've read the riot act to them, their colleagues will all
read the riot act to them, they'll get the riot act read to them more often than
just about anyone could imagine.

Proclamation of riotous assembly under the Riot Act of 1714: Our sovereign lord
the King chargeth and commandeth all persons, being assembled, immediately to
disperse themselves, and peaceably to depart to their habitations, or to their
lawful business, upon the pains contained in the act made in the first year of
King George, for preventing tumults and riotous assemblies. God save the King.

Skid Row in Riot Act, from the 1991 album Slave to the Grind: Stop readin' me
the riot act / While my brains are still intact / You say it's raining, but
you're pissin' down my back / So stop readin' me the riot act

There's a mob called Riotact.com in Canberra, one that creates conversations.
Its mission: We want to provide the Canberra community with a quality source of
independent and informative local news, while providing a friendly public forum
for Canberrans to share their views on issues that matter to them.

Olympic Games chef de mission in Rio de Janeiro Kitty Chiller was so concerned
about rugby sevens players being drunk: Yes, I read them the riot act.

It's a handy instrument, this riot act, and can even be applied to English
soccer, according to the Yorkshire Evening Post on August 15: Sol Bamba admitted
that Garry Monk was right to read the riot act after Leeds United's first home
game of the season ended in a 2-1 defeat to Birmingham City and a furious
reaction from their head coach.

In fact it's handy for all occasions. The Guardian on August 8, 2011: The
foreign secretary, William Hague, admitted last week there was not much more
Britain could do to halt the Syrian crackdown, while his US counterpart, Hillary
Clinton, has been reduced to counting the dead. But Turkey, Syria's more
powerful neighbour, is less supine. It is sending its foreign minister to
Damascus on Tuesday to read the riot act to Syria's gore-soaked president,
Bashar al-Assad.

An ill omen, perhaps? The Australian Financial Review on June 2 last year:
(Tony) Abbott told the weekly meeting of MPs and senators â[#x20ac]¦ he had read
the riot act to the cabinet â[#x20ac]¦ after details from last week's meeting,
in which Mr Abbott was rolled over an issue of national security, were leaked to
The Sydney Morning Herald.

The International Business Times reported on China's new penalties for
corruption in April: China has announced new rules governing the use of the
death penalty in corruption cases, setting the threshold at 3 million yuan, or
$463,000. Anyone found guilty of embezzlement or taking bribes of this amount or
more - in "extremely serious cases" that have an "extremely vile impact" - will
face the death penalty.

That was a month before the BBC published corruption statistics: China's ruling
Communist Party says it punished nearly 300,000 officials last year for
corruption â[#x20ac]¦ 200,000 were given "light punishment".

British Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has defended his appearances on Iranian
state-controlled television in Britain's The Times:(His fee) of Â£20,000 "wasn't
an enormous amount, actually". About 45 per cent of Britons earn Â£20,000 or
less a year.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Droitwich Advertiser

                            November 9, 2012 Friday

Controversial riot training activity is launched in Droitwich

SECTION: ROUND-UP (DROIT NEWS ROUNDUP)

LENGTH: 323 words


A CONTROVERSIAL experience day that teaches people as young as 16 how to
successfully riot has been launched in Droitwich Spa.

Wish.co.uk, which also runs the popular Zombie Boot Camp and S.W.A.T training
days from a site in the town, has already received a number of complaints about
its latest offering.

The Riot Training experience day, which costs £79 per person to take part, has
left some people unhappy at what youngsters could learn from being involved,
especially given last year's riots across the country that saw shops looted and
people assaulted and robbed in the street.

People taking part are encouraged to experience both sides of a riot situation.
They get to play the role of both police and protagonist.

Details on the website of what to expected from the activity read: "Learn the
basics of riot control as a copper - then swap over at half time.

"On arrival at the riot training emporium, famous riots and riot police from
history will be profiled, you'll get to grips with the tactics and formations
you will be using. You'll also be trained with equipment like ballistic helmets,
visors, batons and four foot riot shields.

"All hell breaks loose - you'll stand firm as you come under a barrage of
debris, advancing forwards as smoke swirls around your waist. Brace yourselves
as petrol bombs are thrown. Noise, fire, smoke and fear are the main
ingredients."

People behind the activity have defended the event, which has not been short of
bookings since its launch two months ago, and have stressed that people are also
trained to stop a riot during the day.

Richard Kershaw, CEO of wish.co.uk, said: "We have had a number of complaints
about the riot experience day and we are aware of its controversy. People have
told us we are irresponsible for running it.

"However, we understand the concerns but also stress that the events are run in
the most professional way by an experienced team of ex-police and military
personnel."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 21, 2011 Friday

Film & Music: There's still a Riot going on: Two decades after the Riot Girl
movement showed a generation of young women they could be masters of their own
rock'n'roll destiny, its legacy lives on

BYLINE: Jessica Hopper

SECTION: GUARDIAN FILM AND MUSIC PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1556 words


Nearly 20 years after its zenith, Riot Girl, the fiery flash of a feminist
movement born of the American punk rock scene, is living on - its legacy playing
out in the sound and ideas of a new crop of young female musicians. "If it
wasn't for Riot Girl, right now I would be in a godawful heavy blues band."
Marissa Paternoster is laughing, but she is totally serious. At 22, Paternoster,
the front woman for Screaming Females, is the imminent guitar heroine of the
American underground - a monster of talent and skill, she shreds with confidence
- and it's hard to imagine her owing anything to anyone, let alone a short-lived
movement that came and went when she was still a child. Nevertheless, she is
hardly alone in crediting Riot Girl for introducing her to ideas and bands that
helped shape the musician she is now.

One of Riot Girl's fundamental tenets - that girls' ideas and visceral creative
impulses are valuable - has proven to be as instructive now as it was in 1992,
when the movement was at its peak. It was that idea that helped encourage
Paternoster and, she jokes, "liberated" her from the idea that there was only
one right way to play music. At 14, Paternoster was an avowed Smashing Pumpkins
fan, just learning guitar. "Their music made me think, why bother?" Paternoster
then discovered the Olympia, Washington-based independent label Kill Rock Stars
and began excitedly exploring their catalogue online, downloading songs from
bands that had been at the centre of the movement, whose incendiary slogan was
"Revolution Girl Style Now!"

Riot Girl's musical mainstays - Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, Heavens to Betsy in the
US, and their UK counterparts Huggy Bear - had been broken up for years, but
their sound and messages made them iconoclasts. Their mere existence retooled
feminism and punk for new generations of music-obsessed girls, showing young
women they could start bands and put their lives, frustrations and inspirations
into song - and that you didn't have to be a virtuoso for it to be powerful.

"When I finally heard (all-girl bands) Heavens to Betsy and Bratmobile, it was a
revelation - it was instantly relatable, musically - it made me not want to give
up. I had never been into political ideology, but I got really excited when I
read about their ideals." It was also the first time Paternoster heard openly
gay women sing about being queer. "At 16, I had no gay peers and a lot of gay
shame. Hearing that made me realise that there were people out there who were
cool and they were queer, and unbeknownst to me, it wasn't a big deal. That was
the most important part for me."

While Riot Girl's particular values varied from girl to girl - the movement was
a loosely organised network of thousands of women worldwide - its adherents were
united by their shared feminist beliefs, and by outrage. It began in the early
1990s in Washington DC with informal conscious-raising meetings, where young
women - including members of Bratmobile and Bikini Kill - gathered to talk and
support one another amid a rock scene that was very much a boys' club. Personal
testimonies and manifestos were spread through photocopied fanzines - the
precursors to blogs - and distributed by hand or through the mail. The message
in the zines and the bands lyrics was "You Matter" writ large, flying in the
face of mainstream and underground culture that denied the value of their ideas
and art.

Over the span of two short years, Riot Girl was built into a network, with
chapters meeting in cities, and isolated girls identifying as Riot Girls, then
connecting with each other through the mail or at shows of all-girl bands. There
was no particular hierarchy, or rules - the universal mission was to offer a
sort of radical feminist camaraderie - but the bands, particularly Bikini Kill,
operated as the party organ, spreading the you-can-do-it gospel of the girl
revolution.

Almost as fast as Riot Girl arose, it dissolved and fractured, and by the
mid-90s, so had the associated bands. While Riot Girl had been life-changing for
the people who had been inspired by it, the primary evidence of the movement's
existence were contained on the records and lyrics sheets of its bands, so it's
natural that its legacy would dovetail out of the recordings it left behind,
even though it wasn't a musical movement so much as a social one.

Yet, for Annie Clark, the singer-guitarist who performs as St Vincent, what she
found within those songs was more than just empowerment. She was a burgeoning
musician in her early teens when she discovered the remnants of Riot Girl
through online forums and mail-order 7in singles from Kill Rock Stars, and the
ideals spurred her even more than the music. "It was an outlet for me, growing
up in this conservative Dallas, Texas landscape. I didn't know there was a big
world out there, or what it looked like. It was very exciting to me, to know
there was this pocket of culture happening, and it was super-subversive, or so
it seemed to me at 14. Seeing that empowerment made me really want to escape
Dallas." While Clark was well versed in female classic rock icons - Janis
Joplin, Grace Slick - the stance of Riot Girl bands was something else entirely.
"It seemed like they were trying to own rock in a new way."

Perhaps more than own rock, Riot Girl bands sought to decimate the old model,
and to make a space for their own bands. Riot Girl's earliest post-mortem
iteration was Ladyfest, an all-female band festival that celebrated its 10th
anniversary last year, and which, like Riot Girl, has been adapted and
franchised across the globe, with concerts taking place everywhere from Chicago
to Seville.

While Ladyfest sought to support and hew together girl bands and their fans,
Girls Rock camps, which followed a few years later, are perhaps the most visible
and successful representation of Riot Girl's aim, at least musically. Girls Rock
camps - which now number around 30, internationally - are girlifying the future
of rock'n'roll. Over the span of a week, girls aged between eight and 18 learn
rock instrumentation, form a band, get lessons in music history and get to play
a show. The camps' instructors are older female musicians themselves (Beth Ditto
of the Gossip, former Hole drummer Patty Schemel and Mary Lou Lord are some of
the more notable names), many of whom were former Riot Girls or were themselves
inspired by Riot Girl bands.

Beth Warshaw-Duncan, director of Girls Rock Philly, the Philadelphia-based camp,
found Riot Girl's idea of self-created community to be especially powerful. "It
was the first time that I saw women and girls creating their own media, and
their own communities, outside of established channels. That meant a generation
of women working out their own definition of success and empowering each other.
Girls Rock camps continue the work of Riot Girl through mentorship and
empowerment, sharing that if you don't like what you see in the media, or don't
see yourself represented, you can make your own. That idea is so rewarding, I'm
not at all surprised at the huge rate of expansion of rock camps around the
world."

For women who came up during Riot Girl, who struggled to be taken seriously as
musicians, rock camps are a measure of how much has changed. For Bratmobile
drummer Molly Neuman, seeing the camps and wave of young rocker-girls they are
turning out is especially gratifying. "My motivation to start playing music and
start a fanzine - a lot of it was to fill a lack. There were of course women
musicians and bands, but their relative success was small compared to their
influence. We craved information about girl bands, their records and their
shows. There was very little encouragement at the time to start our own bands. I
can't fathom what it would have been like to have had the opportunity to find
like-minded girls from a younger age, and a network of support in place to
encourage creativity with them."

While Riot Girl may not get shorthanded as a musical movement, it's impossible
to disentangle its social, cultural and ideological components. Its most
generous and lasting gift to the legion of girls and women whom Riot Girl has
shaped is perhaps its sense of permission. Sara Marcus, author of the new book
Girls to the Front: The True Story of the Riot Grrrl Revolution agrees. "Riot
Girl didn't invent that, but it spread it, and in hitching it to feminism Riot
Girl channelled DIY's liberatory potential toward the purpose of saving girls'
lives. So I hear Riot Girl's legacy in any project of people picking up
instruments and making noise without worrying about being marketable or cool,
without worrying about having the right gear or the right training."

For Marissa Paternoster, it was permission to play how she wanted and be who she
was. For Annie Clark, it was the permission to dream of a life bigger and louder
than what she knew. For the founders of rock camps, Riot Girl bequeathed the
idea that they could change the shape of rock and empower 12-year-old girls'
rock star dreams. And for the young girls at the camp, wailing away behind the
drums with abandon, the measure of Riot Girl's legacy is how blissfully unaware
they are of what it was like before.

Jessica Hopper is the author of The Girls' Guide to Rocking, out now on Workman
Publishing.

Captions:

Bikini Kill

Huggy Bear

St Vincent

Marissa Paternoster

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 23, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Cities still run riot risk // Despite lesson of L.A., many still unprepared

BYLINE: Sam Vincent Meddis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 529 words


While some big cities say they've beefed up anti-riot procedures since April's
Los Angeles riots, many appear unprepared to deal with major disturbances, law
enforcement officials say.

There's been no recent national survey of police anti-riot procedures, and many
departments put such concerns on the back burner several years after the 1960s
riot era, says Patrick Murphy, who handled disturbances as New York City police
commissioner.

''I don't hear a word about that going on,'' says Murphy, now director of the
police policy board of the U.S. Conference of Mayors.

Some police, however, say they're well-prepared:

- Fort Worth police assign the SWAT team and mounted police - about 30 officers
altogether - to train regularly on dealing with surprise disturbances, says Lt.
Burton Poe. ''Our plans are always in place.''

- New Orleans police receive regular training on how to deal with civil
disorders, particularly because of the demands from hosting Mardi Gras and other
events that attract millions of people, says Sgt. Marlon Defillo.

''We feel very confident,'' he says. ''The officers are trained to look for
potential problems and then to defuse them before they escalate.''

- Chicago police re-examined their disturbance-control procedures after the Los
Angeles rioting, says department spokesman Billy Davis.

''Any time you have an incident like that, you take a look at your own
operations.''

Still, the independent Webster Commission report on the Los Angeles riots,
released Wednesday, has an ominous warning for the nation's cities. Factors
sparking the April riot are ''in no way unique'' to that city, it says.

Nearly three decades after the riots of the 1960s, little has changed in many
urban areas, the report found.

''Poverty, racial intolerance, lack of opportunity, crime, drugs and the loss of
hope,'' the report says. ''These are fundamental problems of our society ... and
... lie at the core of civil unrest in this country.''

Urban conditions - in large part because of ''Washington gridlock'' and inaction
on needed social programs - are worse now than when the Kerner Commission
investigated the cause of civil disorder in the late 1960s, says Lynn Curtis,
president of the Washington-based Eisenhower Foundation.

''I was surprised that this summer was as quiet as it turned out to be,'' he
says. ''You've got great potential for trouble.''

As in Los Angeles, mistrust for police is a ''fact of life'' among inner- city
residents, says Ira Harris, director of the National Organization of Black Law
Enforcement Executives.

While most police are hard-working and decent, Harris says, some abuse their
power, display ''an attitude of arrogance,'' and become highly visible symbols
of hostility.

Among the reasons for a lack of riot preparedness in many cities: Most police
officials who witnessed the riots of the 1960s are now retired, and police
leaders who replaced them may not be as sensitive to the dangers, Murphy says.

At the same time, the drug war has absorbed much of the resources in urban
police departments, leaving little money for training and other programs to deal
with riots, Murphy says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, UPI

CUTLINE: MURPHY: Says riot planning is often put on back burner

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 13, 1999, Tuesday

When is a riot not a riot?

BYLINE: Penny Lewis

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 691 words


The bill for damage after a protest in the City may be Pounds 2 million - but
there could be a way to make the police liable, says Penny Lewis

Can recent events in the City of London - which we are told may happen again -
be described as a riot? A lot of money may ride on the answer. At the end of May
the Corporation of London warned the City to expect a "Day of Action against
Global Capitalism" on Friday, June 18. This was planned to coincide with the G8
summit in Germany and was "expected to take the form of street protests designed
to cause disruption in the City of London".

The corporation anticipated the blocking of roadways and footways, disruption to
road and rail transport, the occupation of premises, damage to premises, and
street parties. This suggested "high jinks", although nearer the time concerns
about what might happen did cause some companies to encourage staff to "dress
down" for the day.

In the event, what started out as a peaceable demonstration turned ugly in parts
during the afternoon when some protesters lost their cool. Some of the scenes
were like the poll tax riots nearly a decade ago and many observers will be
forgiven for describing the incidents as a riot. If this was not, then what
would be?

The bill for the damage may be Pounds 2 million and there are worries of a
follow-up protest. Much of the cost may be paid by insurance companies although
this will be little comfort for them or for those who have to pay insurance
excesses and face an increasein premiums.

In the post-mortem period there has been speculation as to whether businesses in
the City can sue the troublemakers. It is doubtful whether this would be worth
the candle. However, there may be another means of recovering the cost because
of a 19th-century statute, the Riot (Damages) Act 1886 ("The Act"). This says
that a claim for compensation can be made against the police for riot damage and
survives from an era in which laws reflected the severity of penalties for
crimes against property.

Under S.2 of the Act, those with property interests in a riot zone can, in
theory, claim compensation from the police fund if they have suffered damage as
a result of injury, stealing or destruction to premises during rioting. The most
important issue here is to establish whether there has been a riot. A riot is
defined in Section 1 of the Public Order Act 1986 as a situation in which "12 or
more persons who are present together use or threaten unlawful violence for a
common purpose and the conduct of them (taken together) is such as would cause a
person of reasonable firmness present at the scene to fear for his safety".

For this definition the "common purpose" may be inferred from conduct. Based on
these criteria it would seem that last month's demonstration may qualify as a
riot for the purposes of the 1886 Act.

It is believed that the police have charged people with "violent disorder" under
S.2 of the Public Order Act, rather than with rioting and the event has not been
classed as a riot. This raises the question: if the elements of a riot were
present but a riot is not declared, does it mean that a claim for riot damage
cannot be made? I believe that a valid claim could be brought and that the fact
that offenders have only been charged with a different offence would not
magically convert a riot into something else. The police would then remain
liable under the 1886 Act to compensate property owners and insurers.

The corporation was, and is, in an unenviable position and there are interesting
public policy considerations here. A warning was given although the degree of
disruption was not, and perhaps could not, be known beforehand. Should it
therefore be up to individual businesses to take measures to protect their
premises? Also, to what extent is it reasonable to expect the police to draft in
riot police at the beginning of the day when the protest might have been
uneventful and they may have been criticised for being heavy-handed? At some
point answers to these questions will need to be given.

The author is a solicitor with Fishburn Morgan Cole


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 28, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Anger surfaces in riot claims // Official says all losses to be denied

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Richard Kim says when his mother was shot in the thigh during last spring's
riots, the police officers who promised to take her to a hospital left her
bleeding on a sidewalk as they fled the trouble zone.

One of his three city Audio Video stores was looted and burned to the ground. So
was his warehouse, forcing him to shut down yet another store.

Emotional loss: priceless.

Property loss: $ 2.2 million.

Still, Kim does not really consider himself a riot victim - but more a victim of
negligence by city officials.

''My mother was left in the care of ... police. When gunshots rang out, they
left my mother. ... It's as serious a dereliction of duty as you can find
anywhere.''

A passer-by got an ambulance for Kim's mother. But Kim hasn't forgotten the pain
of not knowing where she was for 10 hours.

He is now telling the city just how angry he is. So is Carlos Cesped. And
Guadalupe Valle. And about 2,000 others who filed damage claims this week
charging the city failed them in a big way during the riots.

''The police failed us miserably,'' says Cesped, whose Las Brisas Meat Market
was destroyed during the three-day rampage. ''Live images clearly showing our
business being looted and burned, while the police watched passively.''

The Webster Commission concluded last week city leaders did a poor job handling
the riots - partly because they had no riot plan.

But Steve Peters, with the city attorney's office, says, ''The claims are all
going to be denied. If they allege damages from the riots, they're going to be
denied.''

Also Tuesday, about 100 riot victims demonstrated outside Federal Emergency
Management Agency offices, claiming their needs are being ignored. FEMA
officials said the applicants have not provided proof of losses.

City, county and state governments are getting reams of damage claims as
Thursday's deadline looms. But a government code provision, upheld by a
California appeals court after the 1965 Watts riots, gives them immunity from
charges that they failed to protect residents.

Civil rights groups filing claims on behalf of Korean-Americans, Hispanics and
Chinese say they'll sue.

''I think our strongest suit will be a civil rights violation suit,'' says John
Adsit, lawyer for the Association of Korean-American Victims of the L.A. Riots.
The Koreatown area near the major riot spots was particularly hard hit.

''It is hard to believe that the LAPD response would not have been more decisive
and effective had the violence broken out in ... wealthy, predominantly white
neighborhoods, instead of low-income, minority populated'' areas, says Robin
Toma, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer.

Lawyers have six more months to build cases proving the city systematically
discriminated against minorities and decided to sacrifice the area because of
its low-income, minority population.

''We believe that law enforcement officials intended to sacrifice racial and
ethnic minority neighborhoods to the rioters in order to provide greater
protection to other neighborhoods,'' says lawyer Jeff Ko, who's helping
Korean-American victims.

The filings are filled with stories of outrage:

- A liquor store is destroyed as police stand guard next door at a church where
city leaders preach calm in the wake of the controversial Rodney King verdict.

- A store owner calls police 15 times as his store is burned to the ground and
it takes six days for a response.

- A man is severely beaten on a street corner just minutes after police pull out
of the trouble spot.

The Asian Pacific American Legal Center claims that instead of protecting
neighborhoods, police made them even more vulnerable by confiscating guns of
business owners.

Says Valle: ''As a member of minority group, my plight was unimportant. I too
pay my taxes, as do the owners of larger businesses. ... If our city government
will not protect us, who can I rely on?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY (Map, Los Angeles); PHOTO; b/w,
Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: 'DERELICTION OF DUTY': Audio Video store owner Richard Kim is one of
2,000 people suing the city of Los Angeles, charging that police failed to
protect them during last summer's riots.

NATION, WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; Six months after the nation's worst riots
swept Los Angeles, residents and business owners are racing to beat a Thursday
deadline for filing claims for damages - ranging from $ 10,000 to more than $ 2
million - against local governments.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Rioters say anger with police fuelled summer unrest

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1002 words

ABSTRACT

Guardian-LSE study of riots - involving hundreds of interviews with participants
- reveals deep antipathy towards officers

FULL TEXT

Widespread anger and frustration at the way police engage with communities was a
significant cause of the summer riots in every major city where disorder took
place, the biggest study into their cause has found.

Hundreds of interviews with people who took part in the disturbances which
spread across England in August revealed deep-seated and sometimes visceral
antipathy towards police.

In a unique collaboration, the Guardian and London School of Economics (LSE)
interviewed 270 people who rioted in London, Birmingham, Liverpool, Nottingham,
Manchester and Salford.

The project collected more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters, giving an unprecedented insight into what drove people to participate
in England's most serious bout of civil unrest in a generation. Rioters revealed
that a complex mix of grievances brought them on to the streets but analysts
appointed by the LSE identified distrust and antipathy toward police as a key
driving force.

Details of the research findings, which are also based on an analysis of an
exclusive database of more than 2.5m riot-related tweets, will be unveiled in a
series of reports over the next five days. Monday's findings include:

· Many rioters conceded that their involvement in looting was simply down to
opportunism, saying that a perceived suspension of normal rules presented them
with an opportunity to acquire goods and luxury items they could not ordinarily
afford. They often described the riots as a chance to obtain "free stuff" or
sought to justify the theft.

· Despite David Cameron saying gangs were "at the heart" of the disturbances,
evidence shows they temporarily suspended hostilities. The effective four-day
truce - which many said was unprecedented - applied to towns and cities across
England. However, on the whole, the research found gang members played only a
marginal role in the riots.

· Contrary to widespread speculation that rioters used social media to organise
themselves and share "viral" information, sites such as Facebook and Twitter
were not used in any significant way. However, BlackBerry phones - and the free
messaging service known as "BBM" - were used extensively to communicate, share
information and plan riots in advance.

· Although mainly young and male, those involved in the riots came from a
cross-section of local communities. Just under half of those interviewed in the
study were students. Of those who were not in education and were of working age,
59% were unemployed. Although half of those interviewed were black, people who
took part in the disorder did not consider these "race riots".

· Rioters identified a range of political grievances, but at the heart of their
complaints was a pervasive sense of injustice. For some this was economic: the
lack of money, jobs or opportunity. For others it was more broadly social: how
they felt they were treated compared with others. Many mentioned the increase in
student tuition fees and the scrapping of the education maintenance allowance.

Although rioters expressed a mix of opinions about the disorder, many of those
involved said they felt like they were participating in explicitly anti-police
riots. They cited "policing" as the most significant cause of the riots, and
anger over the police shooting of Mark Duggan, which triggered initial
disturbances in Tottenham, was repeatedly mentioned - even outside London.

For the research, funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Open Society
Foundations, a team of more than 60 academics, researchers and journalists spent
three months interviewing people rioters and analysing their accounts.

The most common complaints related to people's everyday experience of policing,
with many expressing deep frustration at the way people in their communities
were subjected to stop and search. An independent panel set up by the government
in the aftermath of the riots identified stop and search as a possible
"motivation factor" for black and Asian rioters.

In findings released last week, the panel - which took evidence from riot-hit
communities and victims, but did not speak to rioters - concluded there was no
single cause for the riots, but urged police to improve the way stop and search
is conducted.  "Where young law-abiding people are repeatedly targeted there is
a very real danger that stop and search will have a corrosive effect on their
relationship with the police," it said.Of those interviewed in the Reading the
Riots study, 73% said they had been stopped and searched in the previous 12
months. They were more than eight times more likely to have been stopped and
searched in the previous year than the general population in London.

The Metropolitan police's internal report on the riots, also released last week,
appeared to identify simmering tensions with police. Citing community feedback
about the riots, the report concluded: "Either the violence was spontaneous
without any degree of forethought or ... a level of tension existed among
sections of the community that was not identified through the community
engagement."

The Met said it welcomed the research that provides an insight into why the
riots occured "so that police and society can do everything possible to prevent
a recurrence".

"We will consider this research alongside the detailed operational review that
we are conducting." The force said its own research showed 66% of Londoners
believed the MPS does a good job in their area, and that stop and search "can be
a highly effective and essential tactic" against knife crime.

It added: "Stop and search will continue to be necessary but we want to ensure
that it is only used in an intelligent, professional, objective and courteous
way."

The second phase of Reading the Riots, to be completed next year, will draw on
interviews with communities, police and judges about their experience of the
disturbances and their aftermath.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              July 25, 2008 Friday

Race-riot programs feature free symposium at presidential library

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 533 words


A free daylong symposium covering aspects of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot tops
the list of race-riot programs stretching from August through October sponsored
by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

The symposium on Saturday, Aug. 16, includes lunch and a copy of Roberta
Senechal de la Roche's book, "In Lincoln's Shadow: The 1908 Race Riot in
Springfield" for every participant. Historians and experts on the race riot will
give presentations from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the presidential library.

Reservations are required and limited. To register, call 558-8934 by Aug. 16.

Other race-riot events at the presidential library and museum recently announced
include:

* Three public discussions of Senechal's book at Springfield College-Benedictine
University's Beata Hall Conference Room. The first, Aug. 21, will examine the
history and chronology of the riot. The second, Aug. 28, will take a look at the
people involved in the riot. The final discussion, Sept. 4, will be about the
riot's aftermath.

Each discussion will run from 6 to 7:30 p.m. and will be led by college faculty,
local historical and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
leaders.

* Springfield artist Brian Gillis' "audio, literal and visual" exhibit on the
riot opens Aug. 16. The exhibit, based on maps, arrest records, court
proceedings, death records and other riot-related historical material, will run
through October at the presidential library.

* Senechal de la Roche will discuss her book at 7 p.m. Sept. 11 at the
presidential museum's Union Theater. The event is free, but reservations are
required and can be made by calling 558-8934 or visiting
www.presidentlincoln.org. Following the event, Senechal will sign copies of the
book.

* Morris Dees, co-founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, will give the
keynote address at an NAACP Illinois State Conference gathering at 7 p.m. Oct.
10 at the Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center. Tickets for non-conference
participants are $10. Reservations are required and can be made by calling
558-8934 or visiting www.presidentlincoln.org.

* Paula Giddings, author of "Ida: A Sword among Lions: Ida B. Wells and the
Campaign against Lynching," will discuss her book at 7 p.m. Oct. 23 in the Union
Theater. The event is free, but reservations are required and can be made by
calling 558-8934 or visiting www.presidentlincoln.org. Afterward, Giddings will
sign copies of her book.

* A free, two-floor exhibit of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot currently on
display at the presidential library will continue through October.

On Aug. 14, 1908, a white mob, angry after being kept from lynching two black
inmates in the county jail, turned against black residents and businesses in
Springfield. After two days of rioting, at least seven people were dead,
including two black men who were lynched, and dozens of homes and businesses
were destroyed.

The riot led to the formation of the NAACP.

To learn more

* For more information about race-riot events at the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library and Museum, visit www.presidentlincoln.org.

* For more information about the Springfield 1908 Race Riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 5, 2005

G2: Diversions: List of the day: Riots and their reasons

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 107 words


1. Gin riots London, 1743 (against raising of duty on gin)

2. Bavarian beer riots Germany, 1844 (tax on beer)

3. Lager beer riot Chicago, 1855 (closing of taverns on Sunday)

4. Portland rum riot Maine, 1855 (alcohol outlawed)

5. Cholera riots Russia, 1830-31 (anti-cholera measures)

6. Swing riots Southern England, 1830 (introduction of threshing machines)

7. Salt riot Moscow 1648 (introduction of salt tax)

8. Copper riot Moscow, 1662 (issuing of copper currency)

9. Ballet riot Paris, 1913 (opening of Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring)

10. Sydney riot Sydney, 1879 (umpiring decision in cricket match)


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Modi recalls peace appeal

LENGTH: 360  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, March 31 -- Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi has blogged again,
this time to put on record that he did appeal for peace when the riots broke out
in Gujarat after the killing of 58 people in the Sabarmati Express fire at
Godhra on February 27, 2002.

In his blog posted on Tuesday evening, Modi has apparently reacted to the
Congress poser to Big B - whether he opposes the Gujarat riots. Modi said he had
not referred to any party or individual in his blog on Bachchan on Sunday but
still, the Congress felt offended and reacted angrily.

"Friends, Modi himself had opposed the riots and still does. Every citizen must
oppose riots. Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots, 1985 Gujarat
riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots. There cannot
be different standards to judge riots," the Gujarat Chief Minister wrote in his
blog.

Headlined 'Any unsubstantiated criticism of Gujarat can never be tolerated, come
what may', Modi's blog draws attention to the statement he had made in the
Assembly in March 2002 after the riots.

"Are we not supposed to soul-search ourselves? Whether it is Godhra incident or
post-Godhra, it does not enhance the prestige of any decent society. These riots
are a stigma on humanity and do not help anyone to hold his head high. Then why
is there a difference of opinion?" Modi quoted from his own statement made in
the Assembly in March 2002.

This paragraph from his statement in the Assembly would be sufficient evidence
for those spreading lies day and night, he wrote in the blog. "My 2002 March
statement in Gujarat Assembly is enough for the world community to understand
the truth," Modi added.

He also attached to the blog a video clipping of his appeal for peace telecast
over Doordarshan on the afternoon of March 28, 2002. The six-minute video clip
shows Modi appealing to people of Gujarat to maintain peace and show restrain.
Modi also said in the appeal, "It is our responsibility to ensure innocent lives
are not lost." Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For
more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Students perform riots play

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 585 words


Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.

Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.



Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.

The pupils from Greig City Academy in High Street, Hornsey, performed the play
on Tuesday straight after the hugely popular production at the Bernie Grant Art
Centre in South Tottenham.

The piece was devised by the students, some of whom were directly affected by
the riots.

Louise Munro, head of drama at the school, said: "It is really powerful. It's
completely unbiased. It looks at everybody who was affected but it's interesting
that it's coming from the young people, some of whom were involved."

She added: "It's a very physical performance with lots of movement. It's gritty
and looks at the root of some of the attitudes towards politics, the government
and authority in north London and Tottenham."

Gloire Medina-Mambote, a 16-year-old cast member of Arcadian Gardens, Wood
Green, said: "It follows different people in society; people that were involved
in the riots and others who owned businesses."

The performance marks the culmination of months of work for the pupils, who
conducted interviews with policemen, firemen, rioters and shop-owners to gather
different views of the riots.

Fellow actress Niassa Elliot-Brooks, 16, of South View Road, Hornsey, said:
"It's an all-round viewpoint, it's not from one perspective.

"We explore different viewpoints of the same situation."

John Baraldi, chief executive of the Bernie Grants Art Centre said: "We thought
this was a great opportunity for young people from Tottenham to have an
opportunity to perform something to show their attitude and reaction to the
riots."

The pupils from Greig City Academy in High Street, Hornsey, performed the play
on Tuesday straight after the hugely popular production at the Bernie Grant Art
Centre in South Tottenham.

The piece was devised by the students, some of whom were directly affected by
the riots.

Louise Munro, head of drama at the school, said: "It is really powerful. It's
completely unbiased. It looks at everybody who was affected but it's interesting
that it's coming from the young people."

She added: "It's a very physical performance with lots of movement. It's gritty
and looks at the root of some of the attitudes towards politics, the government
and authority in north London and Tottenham."

Gloire Medina-Mambote, a 16-year-old cast member of Arcadian Gardens, Wood
Green, said: "It follows different people in society; people that were involved
in the riots and others who owned businesses."

The performance marks the culmination of months of work for the pupils, who
conducted interviews with policemen, firemen, rioters and shop-owners to gather
different views of the riots.

Fellow actress Niassa Elliot-Brooks, 16, of South View Road, Hornsey, said:
"It's an all-round viewpoint, it's not from one perspective. We explore
different viewpoints of the same situation."

John Baraldi, chief executive of the Bernie Grants Art Centre said: "We thought
this was a great opportunity for young people from Tottenham to have an
opportunity to perform something to show their attitude and reaction to the
riots."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Sentence for inmate in prison riot reduced in return for aiding authorities

BYLINE: Lindsey Shelton, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 662 words


Nov. 20--NATCHEZ -- The first inmate charged in the May 20 prison riot that left
one man dead will serve 40 months in prison and pay $1.3 million in restitution.

Federal Judge David Bramlette handed down the sentence to Juan Lopez-Fuentes
Monday.

Bramlette granted a written motion from the U.S. government requesting the
sentence be reduced because of the "substantial assistance" Lopez-Fuentes has
given the FBI in the case.

Bramlette said Lopez-Fuentes has helped the FBI identify more than 30 inmates
who participated in the riot at the Adams County Correctional Facility.

Speaking through a translator, Lopez-Fuentes apologized for his role in the riot
. He said he would like to continue helping the FBI in their investigation of
other inmates involved in the riot who assaulted prison guards.

Before the sentencing Lopez-Fuentes' lawyer, Matt Tyrone, asked the court to be
considerate of his client's cooperation with the government, as well as his
admission of participating in the riot before he was criminally charged.

Tyrone also said Lopez-Fuentes had no previous violent crime charges and was not
involved in assaulting prison guards during the riot.

Lopez-Fuentes' prison time will be followed by three years of supervised
release. At that point, he will be turned over to immigration officers.
Lopez-Fuentes must not reenter the country without written permission from the
director of homeland security.

The restitution is the amount of estimated damage that occurred at the facility
during the riot and will be paid in conjunction with any other inmates convicted
in the riot case. The payment schedule set by Bramlette requires Lopez-Fuentes
make a $20 minimum payment monthly after he is released from prison.

Lopez-Fuentes pleaded guilty in late August to taking part in the riot. At least
two other inmates, Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano and Pedro De Los Reyes, have
been charged in connection with the incident.

According to earlier court filings, the riot started during a mass movement when
the alleged leadership of a group of Mexican nationals known as Paisas -- it
means "countrymen" -- told the members of the group to disobey orders from
prison officials until a list of demands could be presented to the prison's
administration. The filing states the inmates were disgruntled about the food,
medical service and "disrespectful staff members" at the prison.

When prison officials tried to contain the disobedience, it erupted into a
full-scale riot that lasted from approximately 2 to 9 p.m. May 20, eventually
contained by the prison's special response team and the Mississippi Highway
Patrol's SWAT team.

During the riot, inmates destroyed prison facilities, raided food and commissary
services, took correctional officers hostage and used ladders and stacked food
service carts to climb onto the roof of prison buildings and assault guards
there, including Catlin Carithers, 24, who later died from injuries he received
in the assault.

The court filings indicated Lopez-Fuentes had been identified as one of the
inmates who was present in an area where correctional officers were being held
hostage.

"Lopez-Fuentes would quiet the crowd of rioting inmates and then give
(correctional officers) orders to relay to (authorities)," the filing states,
orders that included for responders to drop their weapons or hostages would be
harmed.

The filing also states that Lopez-Fuentes acknowledged to being part of the riot
, and stole items from the commissary, broke windows in a housing unit and was
in possession of a staff member's radio.

Serrano-Bejarano has pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. Reyes has
not yet been arraigned.

A federal immigration prison, Adams County Correctional Center houses
approximately 2,500 inmates and is operated by Corrections Corporation of
America.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121120-YY-Sentence-for-inmate-in-prison-riot
-reduced-in-return-for-aiding-authorities-1120-20121120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Gulf Daily News

                                  May 22, 2014

Teenager dies after new riots

LENGTH: 327 words


A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

A TEENAGER died in Sitra last night even as riots erupted after funeral rituals
for another teenager, who died in an explosion there earlier this week.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5


     Copyright 2014 Gulf Daily News - Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday

Rajnath calls 1984 riots 'genocide', asks CMs to disburse relief to victims

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 28 -- Hours after assuring that justice will prevail against
those guilty, Home Minister Rajnath Singh wrote to all Chief Ministers to take
steps for immediate disbursement of compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims.

Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide", Rajnath said several
persons who had a "role" in the carnage are yet to be punished.

"It was not riot, it was genocide instead. Hundreds of innocent people were
killed. The pain of the kin of riot victims cannot be compensated by even paying
crores of rupees," Rajnath said after distributing cheques of enhanced
compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.

"In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment."

"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

The Union minister distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.

According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459 people
will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots.

"I want to assure that after getting complaints through this committee,
government will solve them," he said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

Singh said that he wanted to give its credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Meanwhile, some kin of the riot victims said they want the culprits to be
punished instead of the compensation.

"My pain cannot be reduced by money and I want to see culprits being punished.
Even after 30 years, main culprits are roaming free," 70-year-old Amarjeet,
whose husband Satnam was killed in the riots, said after receiving the cheque
from the Union Minister.

"We cannot expect anything from the government. These riots took place in 1984,
but the justice is yet to prevail.

"I don't want money but justice," Bakshish Kaur, whose husband was also killed
in the riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

Riots highlight urgency of contingency plan

BYLINE: Global Times

LENGTH: 871  words


Miao Renlai ([#x7f2a][#x4ec1][#x8d56])

Editor's Note:The anti-China riots in several Vietnamese cities in mid-May have
incurred serious losses to Chinese enterprises in Vietnam. The Vietnamese
government, which initially turned a blind eye to the activities, ultimately
decided to crack down on the riots in an attempt to get the situation under
control again. However, the scars might not easily be removed. Global Times (GT)
reporter Liu Zhun talked to Miao Renlai (Miao), chairman of the China Business
Association Ho Chi Minh City Branch, on what impacts these riots have brought to
Chinese enterprises, how Chinese businesses deal with the aftermath of the riots
, and where the business ties between China and Vietnam will head in the future.

GT: You and many other Chinese entrepreneurs took the brunt of the riots, what
is the true image of the riots in your eyes?Miao: In the beginning, it was
conducted by a small group of people. But the whole situation was dramatically
changed by the evening on May 13, when the size of the protest was greatly
amplified. According to feedback from Chinese victims, including workers and
entrepreneurs, we can put together a rough image of the riots.The Vietnamese
authorities turned a blind eye at the very beginning. They were defined as
anti-China riots, but we are sure that the Vietnamese opposition were also
involved, perhaps with the aim of challenging the central government. It was
reported that the riots were triggered by nationalism, but labor trouble might
also be one of the reasons that some Vietnamese workers joined in and even
burned the factories. The riots were a very complicated issue, and there is not
a single parameter that can define them.

GT: What is the impact of the riots on the investment plans of Chinese
entrepreneurs?Miao: As of now, most Chinese mainland factories and companies
have resumed work. Besides that, they are dealing with the aftermath of the riot
, such as calculating losses and reporting them to local Vietnamese authorities
as they have requested.But further investment plans will probably be halted,
because as the tensions around the oil rig in the Xisha Islands continue, there
is still a possibility that the situation might escalate in the future. I think
whether we can do our business well depends on how the maritime disputes are
addressed.

GT: What do you think of the compensation package offered by Vietnamese
government recently?Miao: It's still too early to say whether the compensation
package can really make up our losses. On the one hand we are still calculating
our losses, and on the other hand, this general compensation package does not
have specifications so far.It's more feasible that the Vietnamese government
will compensate by means of rent relief, tax refunds, and policy support. I
think it is unlikely that the Vietnamese authorities will offer monetary
reparations directly to Chinese mainland enterprises, because once the example
is set, Taiwanese companies will demand an astronomical amount of money as they
suffered the greatest losses in this riot. This will be a burden too heavy for
the Vietnamese government to take, because the nation's own economy is growing
more slowly since the 2008 financial crisis.

GT: What is the biggest lesson that the Chinese enterprises around Ho Chi Minh
City have learned from the May 13 riots?Miao: Besides economic losses, the
biggest lesson is that we didn't have enough awareness of the risks. I have been
living and doing business in Vietnam for more than 10 years, and I was impressed
by the country's openness and hospitality. Good public security and low
political risk was one of the major reasons that many private Chinese
entrepreneurs chose Vietnam to open factories, and some of them even brought
their families to this place.The terrible riots on May 13 were a scenario we
never thought could happen in Vietnam. After the riots, most of my fellow
entrepreneurs said they would keep an alert mind in the future, no matter how
peaceful the situation might seem. This is a lesson that must be taken, and we
have to be prepared for any possibilities, especially right now when China and
Vietnam are still in a standoff around the Xisha Islands.

GT: You said Chinese entrepreneurs are prepared for any possibilities, does it
mean you are working out contingency plans?Miao: Yes, and preparing for
contingency plans is even a priority in our work. It's quite humiliating that
before this riot, we didn't know exactly how many Chinese mainland enterprises
were doing business in Vietnam, and how many mainlanders were working in this
country. On May 13, we received many calls asking for help from the companies
which were not our association members, and through the riots they have realized
that working with our association can help them avoid risks and dangers in
emergencies.I think it will be a long-term task to establish contingency plans,
and the first step might be to conduct a thorough survey of how many Chinese
enterprises are operating and how many mainlanders are doing business in
Vietnam. I believe the fragmentation of Chinese enterprises will be reversed,
and our association can play a vital role in this process.

Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2014 Global Times.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

HORRIBLE HISTORY  ;
 Artifacts from race riot on display

BYLINE: JOHN REYNOLDS STAFF WRITER / John.reynolds@sj-r.com

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 657 words


An exhibit commemorating the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield Race Riot
opens today at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library.

Two floors of the library have been dedicated to the riot, which left seven
people dead. Displays include wall exhibits that tell the story of the two-day
event as well as donated artifacts such as the badge worn by then-sheriff
Charles Werner.

"The purpose of this exhibit is to commemorate the centennial of this riot,"
said Carole Merritt, guest curator and historian and museum consultant from
Atlanta, Ga. "It was a very important riot. Important because it tells a story
of where this country has come from. It tells a story of the way in which this
country, sadly, has used violence to solve many of its conflicts."

On the night of Aug. 13, 1908, a white woman, Mabel Hallam, said a black man,
George Richardson, attacked and sexually assaulted her. Racial tensions in
Springfield already were strained because of an incident in July in which
another black man had been arrested for murdering a white man.

The next day, a large crowd converged on the Sangamon County Jail in downtown
Springfield and demanded the two be released so they could be lynched. The
sheriff managed to sneak the men out of town to safety, but that angered the
mob, which began vandalizing and burning buildings and black homes. Among the
seven fatalities were two other black men who were lynched.

The exhibit at the library is called "Something so Horrible: The Springfield
Race Riot of 1908." The exhibit include several large prints of pictures that
depict the damage caused by the rioters. One picture, for instance, shows two
well-dressed white women, with large feathers in their hats, walking by a
burned-out home. Another picture shows five Illinois National Guardsmen who were
called in to quell the riots.

There are also several wall displays that tell the story of the riot. The
displays include pictures of people, quotes from observers, news headlines and
in some cases, pictures of historical documents.

One display, for instance, tells the stories of William Donnegan and Scott
Burton, the two black men who were lynched.

While the riot was confined to the city, Merritt said other cities also saw
similar events in the early 20th century. One of the purposes of the exhibit is
to put the Springfield event in context with American history.

"I think one of the greatest paradoxes of American history is that here is a
nation that stands for rule of law, justice and equality, yet, at many times in
our history, violence has been used to deal with racial class conflicts,"
Merritt said.

There is no fee to see the exhibit, which runs until Oct. 17.

Merritt said everyone is invited to see the exhibit and learn about the riot.
"This is a wonderful opportunity to find out about an important event in
Springfield's history," Merritt said. "This should help people understand how
Springfield was part of a larger tradition, and also give them a sense of the
way in which that riot of 100 years ago speaks to the racial divisions today."

Parents warned about riot exhibit

The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library wants to warn parents that some of the
material in the Springfield race riot exhibit may not be suitable for children.

One of the exhibits includes pictures of lynchings, the display includes a Ku
Klux Klan robe and hood, and text in some of the exhibits includes a derogatory
racial term.

"A lot of what we do in the exhibit is use first-person accounts," said Carole
Merritt, guest curator. "So, we presented those first-person accounts using
whatever terms they used. While some may find that term objectionable ... we
felt we couldn't censor that or leave it out. We would have to keep the record
of history true."

Go to sj-r.com/raceriot to see an exclusive video interview with Charles Wilson,
the great-grandson of William Donnegan, one of the two black men lynched during
the 1908 riot.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: M1 CUTLINE VARIES

GRAPHIC: 1. On display at the "Something So Horrible: The Springfield Race Riot
of 1908" exhibit at the Abraham Library Presidential Library are, from top: a
piece of wood from a tree used in a lynching. (06142008riot1.jpg)
2. On display at the "Something So Horrible: The Springfield Race Riot of 1908"
exhibit at the Abraham Library Presidential Library are, from top: a souvenir
pamphlet of photos from the riot (06142008riot2.jpg)
3. On display at the "Something So Horrible: The Springfield Race Riot of 1908"
exhibit at the Abraham Library Presidential Library are, from top: and handcuffs
from the period. (06142008riot3.jpg)
4. Carole Merritt (Merritt_Carole_06142008.jpg - SEE RAID 1)
NOTE: UNPUBLISHED RELATED PHOTO: (06142008riot4.jpg)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Disburse compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to kin of 1984 Sikh riot victims: Rajnath
Singh to CMs

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 26 -- Hours after assuring that justice will prevail against those
guilty, Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday wrote to all Chief Ministers to
take steps for immediate disbursement of compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin
of 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims.

"In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," Rajnath said today after distributing cheques of
enhanced compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.

"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

The Union minister distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.

According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459 people
will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots.

"I want to assure that after getting complaints through this committee,
government will solve them," he said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

Singh said that he wanted to give its credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Calling the 1984 anti-Sikh riots a "genocide", Singh said, "It was not riot, it
was genocide instead. Hundreds of innocent people were killed. The pain of the
kin of riot victims cannot be compensated by even paying crores of rupees."

Meanwhile, some kin of the riot victims said they want the culprits to be
punished instead of the compensation.

"My pain cannot be reduced by money and I want to see culprits being punished.
Even after 30 years, main culprits are roaming free," 70-year-old Amarjeet,
whose husband Satnam was killed in the riots, said after receiving the cheque
from the Union Minister.

"We cannot expect anything from the government. These riots took place in 1984,
but the justice is yet to prevail.

"I don't want money but justice," Bakshish Kaur, whose husband was also killed
in the riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riot law reform will help firms survive;
Small businesses offered 'new for old' payouts in easier claim process

BYLINE: Martin Bentham

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 489 words


A MAJOR overhaul of riot laws will make it easier for small businesses in London
to receive proper compensation after future disturbances. A report commissioned
by Home Secretary Theresa May says businesses affected by riots should receive
"new for old" compensation and that compensation for damage to vehicles should
be provided for the first time.

Other key recommendations include making it easier to apply for compensation and
the creation of a Home Officebacked "claims bureau" staffed by insurance
industry experts.

However, large firms will lose out because of a plan to cap payouts to prevent
huge awards such as the £70 million a judge recently told the Met to give Sony
for the destruction of its Enfield warehouse in the 2011 riots.

Unveiling the report today, policing minister Damian Green said the proposals to
the Riot Damages Act were "sensible" and signalled that many would be
implemented after a public consultation. In an article for the Evening Standard
on this page, he says that ministers want to help small firms and that
substantial changes were needed to the "antiquated" Act, which became law in
1886.

The report, produced for the Home Office by Neil Kinghan, a former senior civil
servant and director of the Local Government Association, also calls on local
authorities to draw up emergency plans "for a riot-recovery service to provide
co-ordinated advice and support" to those affected by disorder. Interim payments
before claims are settled in full are also proposed. Mr Kinghan calls on
ministers to "allow flexibility" so that payments received by victims from
charities "or other nonpublic sector bodies" are not used as a reason to reduce
the compensation awarded. Power to rule on whether a riot has occurred in the
capital - and whether compensation payments can be made by the taxpayer - will
be given to the deputy mayor for policing, who will be required to seek advice
from the Met and make a decision within seven days of the disorder.

Unveiling his report, Mr Kinghan said that victims and the worst affected areas
were still suffering the consequences of the riots and that legal changes were
needed to minimise the impact of any future disorder.

"I hope that riots will not occur again," he said. "But it is essential that we
should learn from the events that followed the riots." Today's report reveals
that taxpayers have paid £35.2million under the Riot Damages Act relating to the
2011 riots, but that this could "still grow to £100 million" or more.

Many affected businesses have complained that legislation has proved
bureaucratic and that payouts have been insufficient to cover losses.

Under the proposed reforms, police will remain liable to pay compensation after
riots. The Home Office will be expected to continue to reimburse forces if the
bill spirals.

'I hope riots will not occur again. But it is essential that we should learn
from the events that followed' Report author Neil Kinghan

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: London burning: a man takes a photograph of a policeman in Hackney
during the 2011 riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Riot ready for second season

BYLINE: Murray McCormick, Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 738 words


The Regina Riot is looking to reap the benefits of the team's first year of
full-contact football.

In 2011, the Riot was 2-2 during the squad's inaugural season in the Western
Women's Canadian Football League. The Riot kicks off its second season Sunday in
Saskatoon against the host Valkyries. Adrienne Zuck, a safety who has been
converted to linebacker, has noticed a difference in the Riot in the team's
second season compared to 2011.

"Last year was the first year for our coaches coaching women,'' Zuck said. "They
weren't sure about the experience about football and there was a lot of learning
from both sides. It was totally different this year with the rookie camp and
everything else. Most of us knew exactly what we needed to do and what positions
we were playing. This is a skill-building year. The learning pace is a lot
faster. A lot of plays and calls are much more detailed than last year.''

Jon Baxter, head coach of the Riot, adopted a fundamental approach this year
with the women even though it was the second season for the team's veterans.

"We went from a sandlot team in 2011 to an actual organized football team this
year,'' Baxter said. "Because we had nearly as many veterans as rookies, we went
to basics. It started with them learning how to stand properly and we worked our
way up from there. We did a lot of work in the gymnasium without equipment so
they understood what was required once they did get their equipment on. It
worked really well for us. A lot of girls from last year learned some new
techniques.''

The Riot has 41 players listed on the team's roster this season. Baxter said
that 26 of those players are returning from 2011.

"At the beginning of training camp I noticed a huge difference between the
rookies and veterans,'' Baxter said. "Right now not so much except the veterans
have more game savvy. They understand the speed of the game and what is
required.''

The Riot tuned up for Sunday's game last Saturday by going 3-0 in a four-team
pre-season tournament in Edmonton. Baxter felt the experience helped the Riot,
but playing in an actual game will be different for the first-year players.

"The speed of the jamboree was one thing, but the speed of a game will be even
more,'' Baxter said. "The veterans were able to pass that information on to the
rookies. Things take place a lot faster than they expect.''

The Riot is expecting a stiff test in the team's first game of the regular
season. Last year, the Valkyries defeated the Riot 36-6 in a semifinal en route
to beating the Edmonton Storm 35-7 in the league final. Saskatoon also beat the
Riot 56-6 and 42-2 during the regular season. Zuck is still looking forward to
playing the league's best team in the season opener.

"Their standings have shown that they are the best team in the league,'' Zuck
said. "You can say it's a good thing because they will show us what we need to
do and what we need to work on. It would be nice to play a team that we've
beaten before because we could build up our morale. I'm just excited to play.''

Due to the renovations at Mosaic Stadium, the Riot won't play at home until June
10 when the team plays host to the Winnipeg Nomads Wolf Pack. On May 27, the
Riot is in Brandon to play the Manitoba Fearless. The Riot concludes the regular
season on June 17 against the visiting Valkyries.

REGINA RIOT

2012 ROSTER

No. Name Pos.

5 Burdeen Starkey QB

6 Claire Dore WR

7 Mallory Starkey RB

20 Pam Ewanishin LB

21 Wanda Uhren DB

22 Aimee Kowalski QB

23 Carmen Agar RB

24 Adrienne Zuck LB

25 Shelby Moran LB

26 Courtney Tafelmeyer WR

28 Robyn Tulloch WR

30 Bonnie Soerensen DB

33 Teisha Bray RB

34 Kate Rogal WR

39 Ciara Bray LB

50 Becky Wallis DL

52 Bonnie Riffel OL

53 Madison Genoway OL

54 Pam Grzyb OL

55 Ashley Winter OL

56 Ashley Viklund OL

57 Kaitlin Fisher DL

58 Trisha Jattansingh OL

71 Erin Banbury RB

72 Louise Kezama DL

74 Diane Allen DL

75 Angelique Chenard OL

76 Karen Almasi DL

77 Jennifer Fahlman DB

79 Paige Mitchell DB

80 Melissa Park DB

81 Lisa Ziegler LB

82 Megan Jalbert WR

84 Jessica Gawley DB

85 Sherry Hill DL

86 Samantha Bray WR

87 Alisha Beler WR

88 Sarah Mercer LB

89 Amanda Tafelmeyer DL

90 Crystal Thiessen P/K

97 Angie Douville TE

Head Coach: Jon Baxter.

Assistant Coaches: Rick Davis, Darren Fisher, Kris Davis, Kris Hadesbeck , Corey
Uhren, Tim Douville, Jack Upshall, Dwight Vanstone, Mike Barth.

Team Doctor: Dr Megan Dash.

Follow Murray McCormick on Twitter at https: //twitter.com/ murraylp
mmccormick@leaderpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Don Healy, Leader-Post; Regina Riot's Adrienne Zuck.; Don Healy,
Leader-Post;  Regina Riot's (left to right) Courtney Tafelmeyer, Megan Jalbert
and Ciara Bray at practice in Regina on Friday.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

Milton Keynes company takes award for riotous stand'

LENGTH: 377  words


A Milton Keynes business has beaten hundreds of competitors to receive the top
award at an industry-leading event.

Buckinghamshire based Riot Squad caused award-winning anarchy at the Vaper Expo,
held at Birmingham's NEC at the weekend, and fought off competition to win the
Stand of the Show Award.

The celebrating company achieved the prestigious accolade beating more than 200
other businesses at the show, which was attended by thousands of retail traders
and vaping visitors.

Riot Squad's award-winning stand included a bold, branded SWAT style van,
complete with interrogation chamber, where visitors were apprehended before
enjoying an arresting experience like no other.

Thousands of vapers flocked to the Riot Squad stand during the three-day expo
where they were taken captive and dressed in prisoner boiler suits before being
bundled into the interrogation chamber.

All vapers visiting the Riot Squad stand had a riotous time and the chance to
take part in the award-winning anarchic antics.

The judges awarded Riot Squad the top Stand of the Show prize for offering the
best all-round experience, best eliquid range and best branding at the expo,
recognised as one of Europe's biggest vaping exhibitions.

The fun, incarceration immersive experience was staged so visitors could sample
the newly launched Riot Squad eliquids before being released.

Ben Johnson, of Riot Squad, said: "We are delighted to have won this amazing
award. It is a fantastic achievement and acknowledges everything we wanted to
capture with our Riot Squad interactive experience at our innovative stand.

"This award is particularly prestigious as it was our brand launch we wanted to
ensure, when we introduced the Riot Squad range to vapers, we delivered the wow
factor and made it memorable for everyone who took part.

"Our very own realistic riot squad put vaping victims' through their paces and
the response we had from the thousands who visited the Riot Squad stand was
overwhelmingly positive - this is an amazing achievement for Riot Squad and we
hope the first of many more awards."

The premium eliquids offer intense riot inspired flavours including Menthol
Molotov, Pink Grenade and Strawberry Scream.

For more information about Riot Squad go to www.riotsquadeliquid.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MPMC


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

BJP, BSP stage walkout over Muzaffarnagar communal riots

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 17 -- BJP and the BSP staged a walkout from the state assembly
over the communal riots in the state and implication of innocents in the 2013
Muzaffarnagar riots and Saharanpur riots in2014.

However, the Congress alleged that the government was covering up the communal
violence cases as the Centre'srecords claim that 247 communal riots took place
during this period. Congress also staged protest in the state assembly which
continued on road over the snooping case against party vice-president Rahul
Gandhi and summoning of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh by a CBI court in
Coalgate scam.

The minister, giving details of the Muzaffarnagar riots, said that 477 cases
were registered in which 1,359 peoplewere made accused, altogether 1,046
criminals have been arrested and action taken against 1,349 people. In
theSaharanpur case, 237 cases were registered in which 229 people made accused
and 99 of them arrested. The BJP and the BSP members were dissatisfied with
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Mohammad Azam Khan's reply, who claimed that just
two communal riots occurred in the state, Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013 and
Saharanpur riots in2014 since March 2013 till date and the other incidents were
just criminal clash. However, Nadim Javed of the Congress alleged that the
government wascovering up the communal violence cases as the Centre'srecords
claim that 247 communal riots took place during this period but minister Azam
Kahan added that the Central records also say that in 2013 the communal riots
incidents were 247 but in2014 it came down to 140 while in other places
particularly in the BJP ruled states, the number has gone up. BJP memberSuresh
Rana demanded that around 500 innocents who have been jailed for the
Muzaffarnagar riots should be released in which most of them are senior
citizens, he also claimed thatin the FIRs, police registered cases against nine
people whowere already dead.

The BSP then demanded that the Muzaffarnagar riots accused were given police
protection and when the government efused to accede to their demands, they too
staged a noisy walkout.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Modi govt abetted and pushed 2002 riots further, we didn't in '84: Rahul

LENGTH: 571  words


Targetting the BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, Congress vice
president Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused his government in Gujarat of "abetting
and pushing the riots" of 2002.

The Congress government, in contrast, had tried to stop the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
in Delhi,  he said, even as he admitted some Congressmen were involved in those
riots.



The difference between 2002 and 1984, Rahul said, was that the Gujarat
government was involved in the riots.

"The difference between the '84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the government was doing everything it could to stop the riots," Rahul
said in an interview to Times Now, his first to a news channel.

"In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong," he said.


Asked to explain how the Gujarat government abetted and pushed the riots, he
said the claim was not his. "It's not meit's the large number of people who were
there, large number of people who saw actively the government of Gujarat being
involved in the riots."

While he deflected questions on whether he should tender an apology for the
anti-Sikh riots, Gandhi admitted that "some Congressmen probably were involved"
in them. "There is a legal process through which they have gone through. Some
Congressmen have been punished for it," he said.

Gandhi, for most part of the 90-minute interview, repeated what he called the
"fundamental political issue at hand" - changing the present political system to
end the concentration of power in a few hands and opening up systems and
processes to bring in youth and empowering them and women. He also referred
frequently to the RTI and Lokpal laws enacted by the UPA government and used
these arguments to deflect questions.

For instance, asked how Modi can be held responsible for the 2002 riots when the
courts have given him a clean chit, he replied: "Our political party is fighting
an ideological battle against the BJP and let me draw out the two pillars - our
party believes that women should be empowered, democracy should go to every
house, that RTI, and the MNREGA paradigm should be further expanded. The BJP
believes power should be extremely concentrated in this country, few people
should run this country and the large mass of this country should have no
voice."

Rahul also said he was in favour of bringing political parties under the RTI if
there was unanimity among parties. But expanding the ambit of RTI only to
include parties could create an imbalance, he said.

"If you only put RTI into one pillar and you don't have RTI in, for example, the
judiciary and the press and in other areas then you might create an imbalance.
Am I for opening up? Am I for bringing RTI into as many places possible?
Absolutely. Am I for creating an imbalance and weakening the legislative
structures of this country. No I am not," he said.

Gandhi reiterated that the Congress could learn some things from the Aam Aadmi
Party and defended its decision to support its government in Delhi.

"We thought we would assist them, because our party felt we should give them a
chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one can see
exactly how much they have proved themselves."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Modi govt abetted and pushed 2002 riots further, we didn't in '84: Rahul

LENGTH: 571  words

DATELINE: New Delhi




TARGETING the BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, Congress vice
president Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused his government in Gujarat of "abetting
and pushing the riots" of 2002.

The Congress government, in contrast, had tried to stop the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
in Delhi,  he said, even as he admitted some Congressmen were involved in those
riots.



The difference between 2002 and 1984, Rahul said, was that the Gujarat
government was involved in the riots.

"The difference between the '84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the government was doing everything it could to stop the riots," Rahul
said in an interview to Times Now, his first to a news channel.

"In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong," he said.


Asked to explain how the Gujarat government abetted and pushed the riots, he
said the claim was not his. "It's not me...it's the large number of people who
were there, large number of people who saw actively the government of Gujarat
being involved in the riots."

While he deflected questions on whether he should tender an apology for the
anti-Sikh riots, Gandhi admitted that "some Congressmen probably were involved"
in them. "There is a legal process through which they have gone through. Some
Congressmen have been punished for it," he said.

Gandhi, for most part of the 90-minute interview, repeated what he called the
"fundamental political issue at hand" - changing the present political system to
end the concentration of power in a few hands and opening up systems and
processes to bring in youth and empowering them and women. He also referred
frequently to the RTI and Lokpal laws enacted by the UPA government and used
these arguments to deflect questions.

For instance, asked how Modi can be held responsible for the 2002 riots when the
courts have given him a clean chit, he replied: "Our political party is fighting
an ideological battle against the BJP and let me draw out the two pillars - our
party believes that women should be empowered, democracy should go to every
house, that RTI, and the MNREGA paradigm should be further expanded. The BJP
believes power should be extremely concentrated in this country, few people
should run this country and the large mass of this country should have no
voice."

Rahul also said he was in favour of bringing political parties under the RTI if
there was unanimity among parties. But expanding the ambit of RTI only to
include parties could create an imbalance, he said.

"If you only put RTI into one pillar and you don't have RTI in, for example, the
judiciary and the press and in other areas then you might create an imbalance.
Am I for opening up? Am I for bringing RTI into as many places possible?
Absolutely. Am I for creating an imbalance and weakening the legislative
structures of this country. No I am not," he said.

Gandhi reiterated that the Congress could learn some things from the Aam Aadmi
Party and defended its decision to support its government in Delhi.

"We thought we would assist them, because our party felt we should give them a
chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one can see
exactly how much they have proved themselves."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 2, 2013 Wednesday 9:04 PM GMT

Detention centre riot: several hurt

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 183 words


Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

Illegal immigrants have injured five officers during a riot at a detention
centre, border officials have said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     June 12, 1993, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

OF MOBS AND MONTREAL; Like basketball and football, the hockey riot is a
sports-page fixture in which this city plays a prominent historical role

BYLINE: MICHAEL FARBER; GAZETTE

SECTION: WEEKLY REVIEW; MICHAEL FARBER; Pg. B1/BREAK

LENGTH: 1395 words


AS A mob swirled around on its way to its ritual dance of destruction on Ste.
Catherine St., a doubting hockey writer looked out the door at the Forum
employees' entrance on Atwater near de Maisonneuve.

"Think it's safe to go out?" he asked a security guard.

"Sure," said the guard, with no trace of irony. "Once you make it past the
crowd, you'll be OK."

The Canadiens made it past the crowd yesterday, a cordon of officers in riot
gear clearing the way for the five flatbed trucks that carried the players, the
Cups and the fervent wishes of Montreal. After the riot Wednesday night the city
needed to restore its dignity, repair the damage that not even the plate-glass
repairmen could. This was one part parade, one part panacea, and as it trundled
its way west along Sherbrooke St., Montreal took an extended noon hour. The
march was happy and, as one sign said, "Non- violent." The parade in honor of
the Stanley Cup champions was the equivalent of a three-martini lunch - almost
enough to wipe out the memory.

But Montreal can't, and shouldn't, forget.

The 100 merchants along Ste. Catherine St., the Avenue of Broken Glass, will
remember their stores' being vandalized. Anyone who saw the images on television
will remember, as well. There were front- page T-shirts heralding the Canadiens'
24th Cup victory but if the marketers were really sharp, there would be some XLs
out there with a picture of Lord Stanley's Cup and the slogan "I had a riot in
Montreal."

Like basketball, which was invented by a McGill grad named James A. Naismith,
and football, of which one of the earliest games was between McGill and Harvard,
the hockey riot is one more sports-page fixture in which Montreal plays a
prominent historical role. The Richard Riot on March 17, 1955, might not have
been the first - this is one statistic the National Hockey League definitely
does not keep - but it surely was the grandest. NHL president Clarence Campbell
had suspended Maurice Richard for striking a linesman, in effect costing the
Rocket the scoring championship. Campbell was accosted inside the Forum, and a
mob rampaged down Ste. Catherine St.

The seeds of the Quiet Revolution were watered that noisy night, but the
difference between the Richard Riot and Montreal's 1986 Gucci Riot - the looters
hit only the quality shops after the Canadiens won the Cup in Calgary - and
Wednesday's mayhem was that people actually were angry in 1955. The last two
hockey riots were in celebration, which is one wacky way to show your joy.

Or is it?

The Stanley Cup playoffs are rife with rituals. After winning a series, players
are expected to mass in a kind of skating reception line to shake hands with the
losers. And after the Cup is secured, a team is supposed to skate around the
rink to display the trophy. Now after the Cup is safe in the winner's dressing
room and players are spraying quotes like "teamwork did the job" and "this is
unreal" as if they were champagne, the fans bust up their city. The riot is just
part of the show, like Bob Cole's exclamations and Don Cherry's clothes. Now
back to you Dick.

But hockey, with its inherent violence, does not prompt any more lunacy or just
plain larceny than, say, the pastoral game of baseball. While nothing in North
America can hold a torch (and we use the word advisedly) to European and
particularly British soccer with its culture of violence, North Americans can
crank up the volume for the big moments.

You can't tell the riots without a scorecard.

February 1993. More than two dozen people are injured and 50 acts of violence
are recorded as 400,000 Dallas fans mass to celebrate the Super Bowl victory.
Fourteen people are arrested.

June 1992. Two brothers are arrested in Pittsburgh for inciting a riot after the
Penguins win the Stanley Cup. There are 22 alcohol- related arrests at the
airport.

June 1991. One hundred people are arrested in Chicago after the Bulls win the
National Basketball Association championship. Two teens are injured by gunfire.

June 1990. There are eight deaths in Detroit after the Pistons win the
basketball title. One hundred and forty-people are arrested. There are
stabbings, fighting and gunfire in the street. Fights break out in a hospital
emergency room.

June 1987. Four Edmonton policemen are sent to the hospital with head injuries
as Oilers fans celebrate a Stanley Cup. One woman is sexually assaulted.

October 1984. Cars are overturned and looting is rampant in Detroit after the
Tigers win the World Series. One death is reported.

"I was in Minnesota in 1987 when the Twins won the World Series," said Brian
Bellows, a Canadiens forward, "but it was nothing out of hand. The Midwest is a
little more normal. I was walking around and people were honking their car horns
and strangers were slapping each other high fives, but nothing like this."

No, when it comes to riots, Montreal has credentials. This city has had
conscription riots, the St. Leonard school riots, the St. Jean Baptiste riot,
the Guns N' Roses riot. Like smoked meat and bagels and hockey, it is something
this city does well.

In the aftermath, there has been an almost universal wish to minimize the
participation in Wednesday's riot. This is the bad- apple theory. Canadiens
coach Jacques Demers said: "These are not our real fans. The city is cast in
doubt because of a few hundred stupid people. This is a minority that practices
violence."

Of course, only 50 people were arrested in the St. Leonard riots and only 400
taxi drivers attacked a limousine company during the police and firefighters'
illegal strike of 1969 and only 800 striking postal workers were involved when
Molotov cocktails were thrown in 1991.

With the negligent police response in the 1986 Gucci Riot and the tepid response
Wednesday, Montreal seems to be nurturing its own apple orchard.

Mayor Jean Dore said much of the looting was premeditated. (Those walkie-talkies
and Hefty bags rolled into some of the vandals' jeans were a dead giveaway.) The
Stanley Cup riots - every seven years, like locusts - are not highly structured
like the activities of British hooligans, who operate in what are called
"firms." But the 1986 riot should have been enough warning that sub-culture
entrepreneurs will grab whatever they can.

That doesn't explain the Stanley Cup revellers who were just in it for the blood
sport. Professionals, after all, don't bother grabbing oranges from the Provigo.
Emboldened by alcohol, barely controlled by the police, these rioters seemed
swept away by their own adrenaline.

Bill Buford, an American literary editor who has lived in California since 1977,
immersed himself in the soccer-hooligan culture. He wrote Among the Thugs: the
Experience and Seduction of Crowd Violence after the 1990 World Cup when British
soccer fans rampaged through Sardinia.

"The crowd is not us," Buford mocked. "It never is."

Buford came to the conclusion that the crowd is within. He decided the standard
explanations - that a riot represents the rot of modern civilization ("They
never would have done that in my day") or a continuation of man's violent nature
(the conscription riots) - were insufficient.

"It isn't an instinct or a need - being in a crowd isn't necessary to our being
complete human beings - but, for most of us, the crowd holds out certain
essential attractions," Buford wrote. "It is like an appetite, something in
which dark satisfactions can be found."

This vision of crowd violence is the most troubling. Montreal would like to
think its thirst for the Stanley Cup - won 24 times by the Canadiens, won 38
times by Montreal teams in its 100-year history - could be slaked simply by
triumph and a couple of cold ones. This vision does not put the onus on "the
outsiders" as Demers called them, the bad apples. It focuses on the thousands of
people who massed outside the Forum even as the match was going on inside.

The Stanley Cup parade began late and rolled by too quickly, but the crowd found
its conscience. The only serious drinking was on the floats. The route was
non-traditional - note that neither Dore nor Canadiens president Ronald Corey
apparently wanted it anywhere near their offices, city hall and the Forum - but
the response was the joyous, telegenic one the city wanted.

Once you make it past the crowd, it's OK.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: GAZETTE, GORDON BECK/ From celebration to rampage: a funny way to show
your joy.
GAZETTE, GILLES RENAUD/ An officer stands guard, nightstick at the ready, near
the battered wreck of a police cruiser during the Wednesday night rampage.

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A teenager's view of the week of shocking violence on our streets;
First person Kelleigh Bowen, 15, of Rushcliffe School, on a recent school play
called Louder which highlighted the impacts of last summer's riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 380 words


FRIDAY the 13th. Normally an unlucky day, but in July 2012 it was a day
Rushcliffe School will never forget.

The school hosted a drama production called Louder, which was about the riots of
last year.

The play was not only performed by the students but directed and written by them
as well. Some of the audience said "we had to shed a tear at the end" and "how
could young people write this?" Louder gave everyone a new take on the riots and
how different people were affected in different ways. Louder made me think about
the riots and what the roles of teenagers were.

The riots started in Tottenham, London, in early August of last year after the
shooting of a man by police officers. This led to a protest.

The protest started peacefully and then turned violent which then led to copycat
riots all over the country, from Manchester to Merseyside and even Nottingham.

Everyone always stereotypes teenagers - obnoxious, uncontrollable and out of
favour the majority of the time. The riots were no exception.

However maybe this stereotype was deserved due to the fact that 52 per cent of
the total offenders convicted for the riots were between the ages of 10 and 20
years.

Do you really think that people looted shops and destroyed towns because of the
police shooting one man? Or was it just greed? Many people think that the riots
were young people, in particular, smashing shop windows and stealing the goods
that they contain.

It seemed to become a free shopping spree to many people which was gifted to
them with the excuse that they were rioting against the police.

On the other hand many people said the police were the target of their violent
protests. Countless individuals would also say that, by partaking in the riots,
they were disagreeing with the Government and the policies that the Government
have implemented to change and interfere with the jobs of the police.

However, the riots caused a significant amount of damage which affected many
people.

Shop owners suffered thousands of pounds of damage, houses and cars destroyed
and people afraid to leave the houses due to the risk of being injured. The
riots were a terrible thing that shook the whole country out of shape yet they
might have been a good thing - they gave many people a new start even if they
didn't want it.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Disorder: Police on horseback outside the Victoria Centre at the height
of the riots in Nottingham last August. Pupils at Rushcliffe School produced a
play about the events called Louder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday

A year later, the riots reverberate in art;
After the chaos and the clean-up, Vancouver's arts scene offers another response

BYLINE: MARSHA LEDERMAN

SECTION: THE GLOBE REVIEW; VISUAL ARTS; Pg. R3

LENGTH: 962 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Driven by shock, revulsion and a deep sense of shame, Metro Vancouverites
drifted downtown after last year's Stanley Cup riot. They cleaned up after the
louts, and they scrawled bathroom graffiti-sized bits of philosophy onto the
plywood boards that had been installed over broken glass windows of businesses
such as the Bay and Future Shop. "Humanity is an ocean," read one of the
countless messages. "If a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not
become dirty."

A year after the riot of June 15, 2011 - sparked by a Vancouver Canucks' Game 7
loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final - 15 of these boards are
installed at the Museum of Vancouver. The exhibition, , adds to the canon of
cultural response to riots in Vancouver, works which include theatre pieces and
one of the city's most provocative works of public art.

"Great art happens where there's a real sense of a large question and a large
feeling of mystery and a large question of 'Who are we?' " says playwright and
director Amiel Gladstone. "And I think the riot happening in the middle of our
city by our own citizens really raises all of those questions."

The MOV immediately recognized the importance of the so-called riot boards,
seeking to acquire them for its collection within a week of the incident.

"It was kind of a no-brainer," says Hanna Cho, MOV's curator of engagement and
dialogue. "It quickly became apparent that these would be really special, and
part of Vancouver's history."

There are earnest messages from a Grade 6 class ("There is always next year. Why
riot?"); notes in other languages; a drawing of the instantly-viral kissing
couple inside a big red heart.

And one riot board declaration - "Creativity is the only solution to
destruction!" - rings true for many Vancouver-based artists.

Writer and actor Kevin Loring ( Where the Blood Mixes) saw an opportunity to
explore Vancouver's riot mentality in his commission to contribute to Pi
Theatre's Visions of Vancouver project, part of the commemoration of the city's
125th anniversary. Loring created a short audio play (recorded live before an
audience and available online) that looked at the riot from a number of
perspectives, including a teenage hockey fan, a police officer, an immigrant who
takes her two young sons downtown to watch the game, and a woman who joins the
frenzy and steals a bunch of designer handbags.

"It was a group event, it was a mob event and I really think the only way to
really [express] that is to have those four characters speaking about their own
experience separately as though they're being interviewed, but finishing each
other's lines and at some places saying the same line in unison," Loring said
from Banff this week, where he's attending the Banff World Media Festival. "To
get that sense that it's a communal thing. It was a group thing. And we were all
a part of it."

He titled his play The Thin Veneer, and as Loring wrote it, he kept coming back
to the same image: "I liken it to the Leviathan; it's like a million-pound
monster with 10,000 eyes looking at itself doing this thing. It's that group
monster that when people get together as these masses, they behave as one large
monster taking over the city."

This is not the only theatre work to emerge in the year since the riot.
Gladstone was involved in the creation of the play #ThisismyVancouver just weeks
after the riot with a student group at Arts Umbrella, and a staged reading of
Mark Leiren-Young's Basically Good Kids, written after the Penticton riot, which
occurred during the Okanagan town's 1991 Peach Festival.

"What was really both scary and compelling was how apropos it was," says
Gladstone, of Basically Good Kids, in light of the Vancouver riot a decade
later. "It was so right on."

But probably the most iconic riot-related artwork in the city is Stan Douglas's
magnificent Abbott & Cordova, 7 August 1971. The large-scale photo mural is
installed at the SFU Woodward's building in the Downtown Eastside, steps from
the intersection referenced in its title.

"The photograph has produced an image of something that could easily be
forgotten," Douglas says in an interview published in the book Stan Douglas:
Abbott & Cordova, 7 August 1971. "It consolidates hearsay into a picture that
will hopefully produce more hearsay and a conversation about history - as
opposed to the way that, for instance, a sculpture of a general on horseback is
supposed to do, but doesn't."

Indeed, when it was installed in 2009, the work - one of four in Douglas's
Crowds & Riots series - re-ignited discussion of the 1971 Gastown Riots, sparked
when police moved in on what by all accounts was a peaceful hippie "smoke-in"
organized by the local alternative weekly, the Georgia Straight.

In a way, it's a billboard advertising history. Abbott & Cordova was carefully
constructed on a purpose-built set by an artist far-removed from the event it
depicts: Douglas wasn't there and says he doesn't remember the riot, which
occurred almost four decades before the work's 2009 installation.

The riot boards, on the other hand - granted: artifacts, not art - were created
in the immediate aftermath by a generation that thrives on - demands, really -
immediacy and the ability to chime in on a conversation.

Cho sees the boards - the museum has 76 of them - as a physical manifestation
for the social media generation. "This became a very literal translation of that
behavioural urge to express something," she says. "This was Vancouver's Facebook
wall, in some sense."

Reading the Riot Boards is at the Museum of Vancouver until Sept. 23. A panel
discussion ,"Is this Vancouver? Reflections on the 2011 Hockey Riot Boards" - in
which Kevin Loring will participate - will take place Friday at 6:30 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond accused of 'gloating' over riots

BYLINE: Lorraine Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words


Alex Salmond was yesterday accused of making political capital out of the riots
in England after he insisted that the outbreaks of violence should be described
as "English" rather than "UK" riots. He claimed that Scottish society had
escaped trouble because it was different in character.

Labour, Tory and Liberal Democrat politicians united in condemnation of the
First Minister's comments, with one charging him with "gloating" over the
violence south of the border.

Mr Salmond had complained about the violent scenes being labelled as "UK riots"
despite the absence of disturbances in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. He
said that by describing the problem as UK-wide, broadcasters increased the
likelihood of copycat action and could damage Scotland's reputation as a tourism
destination. His comments appeared to have been heeded by the BBC, which changed
its description of the riots to "English" rather than "UK", although Sky News
continued to use the title "UK riots".

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, Mr Salmond said: "We know we have a different
society in Scotland, and one of my frustrations was to see this being described
on BBC television and Sky as riots in the UK. Until such time we do have a riot
in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, said the First Minister was
guilty of seeking "narrow political advantage" from the unrest south of the
Border. He added: "Scotland is not free from social tensions and community
disorder, and instead of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the
First Minister's efforts would be better spent addressing those deeprooted
issues here."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, said: "The First Minister's reaction to
the riots is small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most
important thing was that they should be called 'English Riots' on TV. Surely he
could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities devastated
by this criminal violence first and foremost."

The Conservative MP David Mundell, the Scotland Office Minister, added: "What is
unhelpful is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of
a terrible situation. It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated
by media descriptions of 'riots in the UK' as if that was the most pressing
issue we currently face."

A spokesman for the Scottish Government spokesman defended Mr Salmond's
comments. "It is also important that a proper picture is painted
internationally, so that people know that Scotland remains a safe tourist
destination, especially at a time when so many visitors from abroad are due to
be in Scotland for the Edinburgh Festivals and other events," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond: "Scots are different"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Electronics For You

                                  June 1, 2016

EFY Plus DVD: RIOT: Your Friend for the IoT

BYLINE: Priya Ravindran

LENGTH: 1170  words


As a proud father would speak of his daughter, the developers of RIOT state, "
RIOT powers the Internet of Things (IoT) like Linux powers the Internet." A free
software licensed by GNU lesser general-public licence (LGPL)-v2, RIOT is an
operating system (OS) developed by a grassroots community with help from
companies, academia and hobbyists worldwide.



The moment you begin working on a project for the IoT, you are pulled into tight
waters, having to provide maximum flexibility at minimum resource usage. Low
memory footprint and high energy efficiency are the most basic requirements,
along with support for real-time functioning. RIOT is structured keeping all
these factors in mind, making it perfectly suited for IoT applications.

A micro-kernel that holds up the OS in its stead

Usage of micro-kernel architecture in RIOT OS allows for a simple abstraction
layer over the hardware and provides the necessary mechanisms for the OS to
function right. Well-designed thread management and a priority based scheduler
allow for the smooth processing of tasks. This OS exploits ultralow interrupt
latency and priority based scheduling to provide realtime action.

The micro-kernel includes a powerful application program interface (API) that
takes care of inter-process communication. Mutexes are engaged to synchronise
the performance between tasks, with a system timer maintaining the schedule
perfectly.

Emphasising low-power operation at every stage

Once the board that is to run the OS is initialised, it goes into the lowest
possible power mode, running the idle thread. Once the main thread is given
priority, the board switches threads to perform the task called by the main
function.

Talking about threads, it is important for the user to assign the right amount
of stack to each defined thread. Especially with limited memory locations owing
to the IoT angle, RIOT lets you find your way through this hurdle by introducing
you to sample stack sizes that you can use as a base and accordingly customise
your board.

A modular and configurable stack for communication

This free software offers support to relevant IoT standards and protocols you
would need while coding for your application. It is IPv6 over Low-power Wireless
Personal Area Networks (6LoWPAN)-request for comments (RFC)6282 and RFC6775
compliant, Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)-RFC6550
compliant, and supports Open WSN, Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP),
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) and Universal Binary JSON (UBJSON)
standards.

RIOT is also compatible with Arduino API. To enhance capabilities, the OS
promotes networking through tap interfaces and offers support to additional
tools like Desvirt enabling network virtualisation, RIOT-TV for visualisation
and packet capture based wireless sniffer.

Supporting a variety of integration

RIOT can be configured for entire platforms like TelosB or STM32 discovery
boards, allows connection to various microcontrollers and a wide range of
sensors. Environmental sensors, battery gas gauge, accelerometers, gyroscopes,
ultrasonic range finders and servometers are some of the components you will
find easy to integrate.

Drivers for interfacing devices can be added as modules to the code, many of
which are readily available, too. There is also a radio driver to which you can
connect through a transceiver module, which acts as a multiplexer between the
network stack and the driver.

Compatible with a number of hardware chains

RIOT offers support to a whole lot of microcontrollers like MSP430, ARM7, Cortex
series and x86 processors and a number of boards like Arduino boards, mbed NXP
LPC1768, Nordic chip, Spark-Core, STM family and Texas Instruments development
kit, to pick a few from the long list.

You only need to install a toolchain for the corresponding hardware before you
can begin working with the setup. Make sure you also define the target hardware
in your Makefile. Just like you call modules in Verilog coding, you can include
modules for whatever interfaces you want to have in your design and add this to
the Makefile as well. Unless you meddle with the settings, the designers have
developed the software to automatically create an elf file and an Intel hex file
as results of your application, which come in handy.

Utilities for a comfortable design experience

The most important factor while coding is the amount of resources available.
Even though you might be coding in a familiar language, if the constructs are
not recognised or supported by the tool being used, your expertise comes to
naught.

RIOT provides cryptographic libraries and data structures like bloom filters,
hash tables and priority queues. A shell acts as the link between the brain of
the developer and that of the OS. To make sure that your code is of high
quality, you can employ established tools like Travis and embUnit-Unit Testing.

Run RIOT from your computer

RIOT provides a native port that allows you to run the OS as a process on a
Linux or MAC OS. For those who are not too familiar with embedded programming,
or those who do not have one of the supported platforms, this turns out to be a
handy feature.

With this port, you can develop and debug projects written for RIOT and the OS
itself, without the limitations and requirements of debugging on actual
hardware. Use tools like gdb or valgrind to analyse your process. You can even
exploit a configurable topology to create virtual test beds of multiple
networked instances of RIOT running simultaneously, or create a controlled
environment and experiment your system's functioning there.

Apart from these, RIOT is also compatible with Docker; you have everything in
one place and setting up the developing environment is easy. The only thing left
now is to try your hand at this tool. This month's DVD has the package you
need-begin exploring right away.

What RIOT features

Built with the sole purpose of developing applications for the IoT, RIOT
implements all relevant open IoT standards and works at keeping it connected,
secure and long lasting. Currently, it is partly compliant with portable OS
interface (POSIX) and designed such that if you code once for an 8-bit platform,
you can easily port it to 16- and 32-bit platforms as well. Claimed to be
developer-friendly, resource-friendly and IoT-friendly, this article explores
what it means to develop with RIOT

Getting started

It is easy to start working with RIOT. Falling under the free software category,
you can simply download the package and begin coding right away. The package
provides example applications to help you get acquainted with the software and
even a sample Makefile template that shows you how to compile your code.

Wide community support, active presence on twitter (@RIOT_OS), videos on YouTube
and Vimeo and, not to forget, an informative website (http://riot-os.org/)
provide the needed support as you begin your venture operating this OS.

A good place to start would be https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT
/wiki/Creating-your-first- RIOT-project

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


      Copyright 2016 EFY Enterprises Pvt Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                Final CC Edition

Miss Congeniality's lawyer suggests she's looking for a quick resolution to
case; Woman accused of looting to reappear in court on Jan. 19

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 416  words


As the first people charged with participating in the Stanley Cup riot appeared
in court Wednesday, one defence lawyer suggested his client wants to enter a
plea next month.

"She's very much looking to resolving this," lawyer David Bauer told reporters
outside court after appearing without his client, Sophie Laboisson-niere, 20.

Months before the riot, Laboissonniere won the title of Miss Congeniality at the
Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

She is accused of taking part in the looting of the London Drugs store during
the June 15 riot. She is facing charges of break-and-enter and participating in
a riot.

Her case was adjourned to Jan. 19 at 9: 30 a.m. in Vancouver Provincial Court.

The matter is scheduled for Court 102, where guilty pleas are often entered. But
Baker would not reveal how his client plans to plead.

The Crown gave notice during each of the first appearances of eight accused
rioters on Wednesday that the attorney-general wants the riot-related cases
televised.

Crown spokesman Neil MacK-enzie said outside court that he believes it is the
first time the Crown has applied to broadcast court proceedings.

One prosecutor has been assigned to handle the broad-cast applications and
another four prosecutors are assigned to handle riot cases.

Premier Christy Clark said earlier that she wants to see riot-related court
proceedings televised for the public.

The premier also said she wanted those who took part in the riot and looting to
face jail time.

So far, the Crown has approved riot-related charges against 27 people.

The Crown is still assessing another two dozen files from Vancouver police,
which recommended charges.

The riot broke out after an estimated 150,000 people gathered in downtown
Vancouver to watch the Vancouver Canucks lose Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final to
the Boston Bruins.

Rioters were caught on cam-eras torching police cars, smashing windows and
looting stores, causing millions in damage.

Here is what happened in court Wednesday with the other seven accused:

Ryan Dickinson, 20, remains in custody until his next appearance at 9 a.m.
Friday at Vancouver Provincial Court; Oliver Burke, 20, had his case adjourned
until Jan. 4, 1: 30 p.m.; Spencer Kirkwood, 25, had his case adjourned to Jan.
11 at 1: 30 p.m.; Anthony Larsen, 18, had his case adjourned until Dec. 23 at 9
a.m.; Matthew Lennox, 24, had his case adjourned to Jan. 13 at 1: 30 p.m.; and
Jeff Post, 20, had his case adjourned to Jan. 11, 9: 30 a.m., as did Robert
Snelgrove, 25.

nhall@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerry Kahrmann,  PNG; Jeff Post leaves Provincial Court on Wednesday
after appearing on charges related to the Stanley Cup riot. His case has been
adjourned to Jan. 11.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Rioters were 'unruly mob' seeking instant gratification, claims May: Home
secretary dismisses Guardian/LSE analysis But most believe poverty a factor,
says charity survey

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words


Theresa May has dismissed many of the findings of the Guardian/LSE Reading the
Riots study - the largest set of interviews with people who took part in
England's summer unrest - arguing those involved in the trouble were an "unruly
mob" who were "thieving, pure and simple".

But a report from charity the Children's Society, which surveyed 13 to
17-year-olds and adults, has found that young people across the UK believe
poverty is one of the key reasons behind the August riots. Of those questioned,
66% of adults and 57% of children believed people had rioted "to get goods and
possessions they couldn't afford to buy", according to the survey of 1,004
adults and 1,027 children.

Writing in the Mail on Sunday, the home secretary said the riots were not about
"protest, unemployment or cuts. They weren't about the future, about tomorrow
and a person's place in the world. They were about today, about now. They were
about instant gratification."

Enver Solomon, policy director at the Children's Society, said that a perceived
sense of "material deprivation" could not be overlooked as a factor behind the
riots. "This research shows that Theresa May is out of step with the majority of
children and adults in this country when she says the riots were about instant
gratification," he said. "Most people believe that the riots were caused by a
whole range of factors - and poverty and material disadvantage are at the heart
of it."

Analysis of more than 1,000 court records suggests 59% of the England rioters
come from the most deprived 20% of areas in the UK. Analysis by the Department
for Education and the Ministry of Justice of young riot defendants found 64%
came from the poorest fifth of areas and only 3% from the richest fifth.

The Guardian/LSE Reading the Riots report - which interviewed 270 people
involved in the riots - found that opportunism played a role in the riots when a
"suspension of normal rules presented them with an opportunity to acquire goods
and luxury items they could not ordinarily a&#64256;ord".

But rioters also identified a number of other motivating grievances, "from the
increase in tuition fees, to the closure of youth services and the scrapping of
the education maintenance allowance", according to the report.

Only 7% of adults and 5% of children interviewed in the Children's Society
report, Behind the Riots, believed anger at cuts had played a significant part
in the riots. But 29% of 17-year-olds cited cuts as a reason behind the unrest,
with 67% of those saying more government support was needed following the riots.

"The prospects of this age group are pretty bleak," said Solomon. "They felt
particularly cuts to public services, they are facing great uncertainty and are
particularly effected by high youth unemployment levels." One young person
interviewed as part of the report stated: "Young people aren't being prioritised
. . . the government needs to listen."

The report found one in five (19%) of children and 23% of adults believed people
had taken part "just for fun".

Many children and young people felt perception of them had deteriorated since
the riots, with 20% feeling they were viewed more negatively. "Our findings show
that there is agreement between adults and children that the government should
be providing more support to young people," said Solomon.

"This sends a clear message to central and local government that the public
would like to see more positive activities on offer to children rather than a
reduction in out-of-school youth provision. With the considerable challenges now
facing children and young people in early adulthood, the case for investing in
youth support must be taken seriously."

Captions:

Theresa May argued those rioting had not been making a political protest, but
had been 'thieving, pure and simple'

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday

Events to commemorate 1908 riots

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 370 words


Several organizations have announced Springfield Race Riot of 1908 commemoration
events or plans.

An early overview includes:

* A lecture by Jim Loewen, 10:30 a.m., Nov. 11, Abraham Lincoln Unitarian
Universalist Congregation, 745 Woodside Road.

* "An Organized Resistance: How African-Americans Defended their Life, Liberty
and Property during the Springfield, Illinois, Race Riots of 1908," presented by
Anthony Landis at the Illinois State Historical Society's Statehood Day history
symposium, Dec. 1, Howlett Building Auditorium, Second and Edwards streets. Call
525-2781 for more information.

The ISHS also is planning to discuss the riot at its 28th annual history
symposium at Millikin University in Decatur, March 13-15.

* "An American Dream." The Illinois Symphony Orchestra performs selections of
19th-century and civil rights-era music interspersed with readings of works by
Lincoln and civil rights leaders. 7 p.m., Feb. 11, University of Illinois at
Springfield's Sangamon Auditorium.

The event will be co-sponsored by the Springfield Branch of the NAACP and the
Abraham Lincoln Association.

A Feb. 13 performance is also scheduled in Bloomington-Normal.

The NAACP's Springfield Branch is planning several additional events
commemorating the riot and celebrating its own 100th year.

* The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library will feature a temporary exhibit on
the race riot from June 2008 through March 2009. During that time, the
presidential library and museum also will host various events related to the
riots.

* UIS will plan events examining the riot throughout the 2008-09 academic term,
including lectures open to the public that will focus on such themes as social
inequity, division and intolerance.

An art exhibit, an event featuring a nationally known speaker and _a Web site
listing riot-related events, co-sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential
Library and Museum, are in the planning stages.

* The Springfield Convention and Visitors Bureau is creating its own Web site
listing riot-related events, working with a Chicago advertising firm to draw
national attention to the riot's historical significance and creating a DVD
version of a documentary available now only on videotape.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Letters

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1405 words


Change police tactics, not numbers

THE decision to pour resources into Victoria Police's riot squad is disturbing
("Police riot squad to double", The Age, 16/2). When your only tool is a riot
squad, all social problems will start to look like riots.

If Chief Commissioner Ken Lay was inspired in part by watching the British riots
on television, he should realise it was not a lack of riot police that triggered
or caused those riots. An independent panel set up by the government in the
aftermath identified the widespread police practice of stopping and searching
people as a key "motivation factor" for rioters.

Another study, by the London School of Economics and The Guardian, found that
anger and frustration at the way police engage with communities was "a
significant cause of the summer riots in every major city where disorder took
place".

The Flemington & Kensington Community Legal Centre has been calling on Victoria
Police to rein in its use of stop-and-search powers, to prevent the
statistically hidden practice of racial profiling and the discriminatory
policing of communities for many years now. These simple measures would be a
cheaper, smarter and more effective response than doubling the number of riot
police.

Anthony Kelly, executive officer, Flemington & Kensington Community Legal Centre

Roots of mistrust

IF JULIA Gillard claims she was not aware of her staffers composing an
acceptance speech for the office of prime minister two weeks before the "Ides of
March", then I'm Father Christmas. However, when the team of Rudd/Gillard was
announced after the knifing of Simon Crean, I suggested to my friends that the
Labor Party had it in reverse order. If Gillard had led the party to the 2007
election, we wouldn't have this amount of distrust in her and her decisions. The
problem with Kevin Rudd was that he wanted to run his own show, not letting
cabinet colleagues in on key decisions. That is why he had to go. There is about
18 months before the next election. Come on, Labor, show some initiative and
promote Greg Combet to the "sacred" position.

Michael Higgins, Erica

Civilising influence

PEOPLE who have decided to churlishly mock Peter Slipper for his
re-establishment of ceremony and Speaker's garb need to ask: would they feel and
respond differently towards an off-duty police officer, dressed in casual
clothes, as opposed to an officer dressed in full service outfit? A uniform
sends a message of authority, distinctiveness and high expectation, which is
needed for the proper functioning of society, especially in our capital. And
judging from the televised question time, the chamber has been a lot more civil
this year, without the need for yelling "order" every few seconds.

Peter Waterhouse, Camberwell

Ordinary stories

THE comments of Bob Murphy and Barry Hall on the obsession with outing gay
football players are heartening ("Gay footballers no problem: Demetriou and
players speak up", The Age, 16/2). It's time we started celebrating the stories
of gay people who have not had a torturous passage towards acceptance. We hear a
lot about the difficult journeys, and without taking anything away from them, it
would be helpful to hear stories of gay people who just want to be people, not
novelties or stereotypes or poster boys. It might surprise some to learn just
how many such stories are out there.

Jeremy Bartlett, Essendon

Why the praise?

THE media and many celebrities are pouring forth their congratulations upon
Magda Szubanski. She is not being congratulated for saving a family from a
burning house, volunteering to work in a soup kitchen or disarming a dangerous
criminal. While Szubanski's sexuality is a matter for her (and apparently now
the rest of us), the celebration of her conduct by the media is a disgrace.

Pastor Peter Curtis, Werribee South

Ending the pain

THERE is one other real difference that gay marriage will make to society, Giles
Brewster (Letters, 16/2). Gay youth commit suicide at up to three times the rate
that straight youth do. So not only will gay people and their families feel
better about themselves, but I hope far fewer will resort to suicide. Whatever
reason people give against gay marriage, this is the one reason why I think it
must be legalised. The hurt and pain that leads to someone taking their own
life, followed by the grief and pain inflicted on their families and friends:
this must stop. Legalise gay marriage now.

Rev. Eileen Ray, Ascot Vale

Tricky techniques

I OPENED my front door to a "consumer energy liaison representative". He was
official looking with a well-laminated photo ID. Cheerfully, he told me my home
had been flagged as one which was not receiving the best deal on electricity. He
even showed me a tablet PC with my address shaded in red. This was serious, I
needed to know more.

I suggested in making such a claim he'd need to know who my carrier was, what my
arrangement was. And, if he did know such details, he would be in breach of
several privacy laws. He denied knowledge of my account but kept pointing to his
tablet, repeating my home had been highlighted.

The truth is he didn't know a thing, but he thought a knock on the door and a
dubious story (backed up with his tablet PC) would allow him to fish for
information needed to sell me another power supplier. If this is their training
I feel sorry for them, but more importantly it's deceptive and I shudder to
think how many people fall for it.

Rob McCasker, Anglesea

Missing out at home

THE commentary on the coming Gonski report correctly focuses on the education
market catering for most students: the state, private and Catholic sectors.
Unfortunately, this has sidelined another small sector - home schooling.

No one knows how many students are home-schooled, although a rough calculation
based on New Zealand figures gives a number in the tens of thousands across
Australia. NZ figures are more accurate because people are more likely to
register students there as registration results in a payment of about $800 per
student a year. And this is the point.

At $8000 currently spent on each school student in Australia, 25,000 students
schooled at home saves various governments about $200 million a year. These, say
25,000, students represent 10 large schools. If there were 10 large schools in
this country failing to receive funding, there would be an outcry.

Lex Borthwick, Burwood

Only fair to share WITHDRAWING funds from private schools won't help fix public
education problems as Dr David Zyngier suggests (Letters, 16/2). Making wealthy
people pay to send students to public schools wouldn't help either, but it would
be more equitable than Dr Zyngier's proposal because the subsidy there is 100
per cent.

The government saves 50 per cent of its education costs on every student who is
educated privately. Public education advocates should be demanding at least 60
per cent of that saving be directed to the most disadvantaged government
schools. It's a better approach than withdrawing or reducing private funding and
placing the viability of private education at risk. Dr Zingier says that without
such funding the private schools would not survive. If their viability were
eroded there would be less money available for public school students.

The answer to improving education is to regard it as part of one system and
integrate and share resources more. The private system may buck at the loss of
privilege that implies but, given their level of public funding, they should not
be allowed to fence resources off, and would benefit from sharing.

George Finlay, Balaclava

It's complicated

JIM Garnett (Letters, 16/2), international finance flows are a little more
complex than that. Banks cannot simply book a large windfall on funds owed
overseas when the Australian dollar rises because borrowing is hedged against
currency fluctuations, for good reasons. How would you react if your bank
arbitrarily increased your home loan when the currency moved the other way?
You'd quite rightly howl with outrage.

Ted Green, Epping

Steer clear

BEWARE pedestrians, cyclists and motorists - twalkers and twexters are on the
rise. They can be recognised at a distance by their robotic gait and flexed
neck. Twalkers have a hand to an ear, twexters have both arms prayer-like in
front of their chest. They appear oblivious to falling girders, potholes and
runaway trucks. Approach with caution and treat them like somnambulists. Give
them a wide berth.

Richard Yeatman, Elwood

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: BY RON TANBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                                 State Edition

Riot trucks to combat street mob

BYLINE: GEMMA JONES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 390  words


CRACK police teams riding on the sides of Los Angeles-style riot trucks were
unveiled yesterday as Sydney's latest weapon to combat riots and terrorists.

In scenes which would have been at home in a big American city, riot police
yesterday showed off 10 ''rapid response'' 4WDs in black and white police
livery.

Seven armed police in full riot gear can stand on the outer boards of the trucks
''ready to rock and roll'' when it reaches rioting mobs.

The officers will also be trained to search for bombs and to restore public
order on Sydney's streets in the event of a terrorist attack using chemical,
biological or radiological weapons.

Teams will be on standby to tackle expected protesters at the APEC world leaders
summit in Sydney next year.

''We are at the front end of the pointy stick all the time, these vehicles give
us another edge that has not been previously used in this country,'' Chief
Superintendent Steve Cullen said yesterday.

In the wake of stinging criticism of the police response to the Cronulla riots
last year, the riot squad will double in size from 50 to 100 officers.

It will also be moved to a new base at Homebush, with the new Nissan Patrol 4WDs
to be on standby 24 hours a day, seven days a week for a ''rapid response''
anywhere in the state.

Los Angeles police first used the tactic after deadly riots in 1992.

''They can take significant force over a significant period of ground,'' Supt
Cullen said. ''Four officers are inside with the driver, externally there can be
one or two either side and four -- with the team leader in the middle -- at the
back. They can carry full riot kit.

''You are not running so when you do step off you're ready to rock and roll, You
can expect to see them all over Sydney,'' Supt Cullen said.

Police Commissioner Ken Moroney said the 4WD teams would be used to quell
riotous behaviour and also deployed to restore public order.

''As we focus towards APEC 2007, and other [events] these officers will provide
a very vital function,'' he said.

In the wake of a terrorist attack, Mr Moroney said crack teams would play a
vital role in restoring public order. Premier Morris Iemma inspected the trucks
with a team of riot police yesterday before announcing the riot squad would
double in size.

He said the riot police would crack down on thugs and hooligans who harass law
abiding citizens.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 17, 1981, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

STUDY FINDS MIAMI RIOT WAS UNLIKE THOSE OF 60'S

BYLINE: By JO THOMAS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 16


The riot that broke out a year ago tomorrow in the Liberty City section of Miami
differed dramatically from the racial disturbances of the 1960's, according to a
study conducted for the Ford Foundation.

In a 48-page preliminary report released today, the antiwhite violence in the
Miami riot was called ''unprecedented in this century.'' It added that not since
the slave uprisings before the Civil War had blacks risen spontaneously with the
sole purpose of beating or killing whites. A complete report on the study, which
began last July, is expected to be released later.

The way the Liberty City riot started and the way it progressed were also
different from the riots that broke out in Watts and Newark in the 1960's, the
report says, and the rioters themselves apparently came from a more law-abiding
and representative group of residents than those who participated in the earlier
racial disturbances.

''It was not within the bounds of our study to speculate whether the 'Miami
style' will become the national norm,'' wrote the authors of the report, Marvin
Dunn, associate professor of psychology at Florida International University, and
Bruce Porter, director of the journalism program at Brooklyn College. ''What
does seem clear is that, compared to Miami, the 1960's riots were merely a
warning about the hostility that lay beneath the surface rather than the
outpouring itself.''

18 Killed in 3-Day Riot

The Liberty City disturbances began last May 17, shortly after an all-white jury
in Tampa acquitted four white police officers charged with beating to death
Arthur McDuffie, a black insurance executive.  As news of the acquittal spread,
angry blacks massed in the main streets of Liberty City, burned and looted
white-owned stores and attacked whites driving through the area.

The riot lasted three days, left 18 persons killed and destroyed some $80
million in property.  In the 1960's riots, the study said, the beatings and
killings of whites by blacks ''occurred always as a byproduct of the disorder,
not as its sole object.'' In 1,893 individual racial disorders from 1964 to
1969, the study says, there was not one report of blacks rising up spontaneously
to beat and kill whites as they did in Miami.

Although ''probably as many blacks saved whites from harm as did the harming,''
the study said, the crucial factor was ''not in the numbers but in the general
air of approval that pervaded the scenes of violence.''

A taxi driver saved Debra Getman, a white passenger in a car that was hit by a
stone, went out of control and struck a black child. But hundreds of other
people watched as her companions, Jeffrey Kulp, 22 years old, and his brother,
Michael, 19, were beaten and stabbed.

Pattern of Riot Differs

The pattern of the Liberty City riot was also different from earlier
disturbances, the study contends, adding that this was ''something the police
did not appreciate until well after it was too late.''

In the 1960's, according to studies made at the Lemberg Center for the Study of
Violence, riots began with some incident - usually by a police arrest or the
shooting or beating of a black person - and then developed into a verbal
confrontation between blacks and the police, a time in which the situation might
have been cooled down.  This was followed by a rock-throwing or ''carnival''
phase, and finally by looting, burning and killing.

But the study noted that the precipitating incident in the Miami riot, the
McDuffie killing, had occurred five months before, and ''blacks in Miami seemed
willing to give the criminal justice system an opportunity to apply itself'' by
not taking to the streets.

When violence did erupt, the study says, ''it was already too late to stop the
riot short of a massive seige.'' The study contends, however, that the police
''read the signals differently'' and tried to cool down the situation by pulling
patrol cars out of Liberty City, creating ''a vacuum that served to increase the
violence.''

Moreover, in their analysis of data gathered by the Dade-Miami Criminal Justice
Council about the 855 persons arrested in the riot, Dr. Dunn and Mr. Porter
observed that ''the riot in Miami seems to have drawn a vastly different class
of people than did the eruptions of the 1960's.''

In the Watts riot in 1965, about 74 percent of the 3,435 adults arrested had a
prior arrest record. In the Newark riots in 1967, 74.2 percent of the 1,169
adults arrested had prior records. In Miami, the study says, ''the figures are
almost directly the reverse'' - only 32 percent of those arrested had prior
arrest records.

''A significant number of the Miami rioters were not poor or unemployed or
members of the criminal class,'' the study contends.  ''Many held jobs and did
not otherwise fit the stereotypical image of a 'rioter.' ''

Increase in Poverty Cited

Poverty worsened in Liberty City from 1968 to 1978. Unemployment rose to 17.8
percent from 6 percent, and the number of persons below the poverty line
increased to 52 percent from 28 percent.  Nonetheless, the study says, ''poverty
alone does not make people riot.''

Pointing to other characteristics that Miami shared with other cities where
riots have occurred, the study cited a lack of black policemen, a low number of
black-owned stores and the election of public officials on an at-large basis,
depriving blacks of representation in government.

Particularly galling to blacks was the success of Hispanic businessmen in
securing government loans to establish businesses.  From 1968 to 1979, the study
says, ''blacks, whose strength in the population is half as great as that of
Hispanics, received only oneseventh what the Hispanics got from the Small
Business Administration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     November 4, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Fundamental difference exists between 2002 Gujarat Riot and 1984 Anti-Sikh Riot:
Gogoi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 378  words


Guwahati, Nov 4 (IBNS): Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said that the
assassination of Indira Gandhi and the riot that took place as an after affect
are very condemnable. Likewise, the 2002 Gujarat Riot is equally condemnable.

However, there exists a fundamental difference between 2002 Gujarat Riot and
1984 Anti-Sikh Riot. In 2002 Gujarat Riot, it is alleged that State Government
fuelled it, while there is no such allegation against the involvement of Rajiv
Gandhi led Central Government in 1984 Anti-Sikh Riot. In a statement, Gogoi said
that initially the needle of suspicion of Gujarat Riot was towards Modi
Government, however, later it was proved evident. Gogoi said that the CBI
charge-sheeted the then Home Minister of Modi Government Amit Shah and another
ministerial colleague Maya Kodnani was arrested for their involvement in
orchestrating plot against religious minorities. Alleging direct complicity of
Narendra Modi in the infamous Gujarat Riot, the USA denied him VISA. The Assam
CM said that after the assassination of Indira Gandhi, Anti-Sikh Riot that broke
out as an after affect, no allegation has been levelled of the involvement of
the Central Government led by Rajiv Gandhi. On the day of her (Indira Gandhis)
assassination, Rajiv Gandhi had summoned the leaders of the AICC to contain and
control the situation to maintain peace and tranquility in all the States. After
he took charge of Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi initiated special line of action
to maintain peace and tranquillity and peaceful co-existence in the country. He
even asked the then Lieutenant Governor of Delhi about his action plan to
restore normalcy and help the riot victims, Gogoi said. While the leaders of the
AICC were summoned, he was also present there and he himself was aware of the
development when the then Lieutenant Governor was asked about his action plan.
He got the opportunity to witness Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhis sincerity and
commitment to restore peace and normalcy in Delhi and help the riot victims, the
Assam CM said. Gogoi also said that allegations about BJPs involvement in
fuelling Anti-Sikh Riot were also surfaced in the chronology of events that
followed after Indira Gandhis assassination in the capital. (Reporting by
Hemanta Kumar Nath)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2015 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday

Chief chides area forces for riot response;
Chu says police departments across Lower Mainland can't 'take the night off'
when big event held outside their jurisdiction

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT REPORT; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Police departments across the Lower Mainland can't just "take the night off"
because a major event is being held outside their jurisdiction, Vancouver's top
cop says.

In response to the release of a report on June's Stanley Cup riot, Chief Jim Chu
called for police forces throughout the region to work together to plan
enforcement for major events. He also said he will speak with transit officials
about cutting off the flow of people into downtown for future events, and stood
by an arrest plan in which, two months after the mayhem, no one has yet been
charged.

In a 10-minute news conference at the Vancouver Police Department's
headquarters, Chief Chu said he would have done many things differently in
hindsight.

"Over time, I think we're going to look at our regional partners because the
report talks about declaring this a regional event. So, in the future, I'm
hoping that other agencies just don't take the night off and say, 'Everybody's
gone to Vancouver, it's a problem for VPD and the city of Vancouver.' " Chief
Chu did not expand on the remark.

During the riot, Vancouver police were assisted by several hundred RCMP, and
municipal officers from Delta, Port Moody, New Westminster, West Vancouver, and
Abbotsford.

RCMP did not respond to a request for comment on Chief Chu's remarks. Sergeant
Paul Eisenzimmer, spokesman for Delta police, said he didn't want to address
Chief Chu's suggestion that regional departments don't get involved in policing
major events in other jurisdictions.

"What I can say is that we collectively with the RCMP were policing a large
crowd at 72nd Avenue and Scott Road, which had been gathering there for every
game during the Canucks' playoffs. ... When the events began to reach a crisis
level in Vancouver, we deployed, I believe, staff in the neighbourhood of 20 or
more officers to assist in Vancouver."

The riot report says VPD asked Surrey RCMP and Delta police at 8 p.m. to send
officers.

An hour and a half earlier, Port Moody and West Vancouver police were asked to
keep their day shift on until the Canucks-Bruins game was well over.

The chief said he'll speak with TransLink about controlling the flow of people
into downtown for future events.

"I think, for the future, we're going to have to look at controlling the
capacity of those downtown streets. That's a discussion we'll have to have with
our regional policing partners, as well as the transit authorities."

The report says some of the procedures outlined in the VPD's mass arrest
contingency plan were not followed.

"Specifically, the plan called for arrested individuals to be recorded in the
company of the arresting officer before being taken away in the police wagon and
for basic details of the arrest to be provided, in order to streamline the
investigative process," the report said. Instead, officers gave a higher
priority to managing the crowd than to making arrests.

Chief Chu said the goal was to suppress the riot. Pulling officers from the
front lines wouldn't have made sense.

"We're going to have hundreds charged," he said. "We have to be patient."

Chief Chu has refused to say how many officers were on the street when the
trouble began. The report said 446 officers were on duty when the riot began;
928 at full deployment.

Chief Chu said the report confirmed that no plausible number of officers could
have prevented the riot.

The chief was asked by reporters why he didn't deploy more officers earlier.

He responded: "If I had infinite amounts of money, I would deploy officers five
hours before I think they're needed, just to be on the safe side."

*****

RIOT COMPARISON

Game 7 riot

By the end of the night there was 928 officers assigned to deal with the riot of
155,000 people.

June 14, 1994 riot

There were between 40,000 to 70,000 involved in the riot and 500 police officers
involved.

Chicago victory parade, 2009

450 officers and 20 horses policed a crowd of 1.2 million people.

gmason@globeandmail.com

*****

IN RATIO

1 : 167

Vancouver riot, 2001: Ratio of officers to members of the public. By the end of
the night there were 928 officers assigned to deal with the riot that comprised
155,000 people

1 : 140

Vancouver riot, 1994: There were between 40,000 to 70,000 involved in the riot
and by the end of it there were 500 police involved

1 : 2,666

Chicago victory parade, 2009: 450 officers and 20 horses policed a crowd of 1.2
million people

*****

AMONG THE 53 RECOMMENDATIONS

* Police and fire services across the region should train together and ensure
their equipment is compatible.

* Vancouver's transit police should develop protocols for seizing alcohol from
riders.

* The province should consider banning alcohol on public transit systems.

* The attorney-general should establish a special court to deal with prosecuting
people accused of riot-related offences.

* The development of a Twitter-like social media communications tool to
communicate with spectators' smart phones at public events.

* The Vancouver Canucks and the NHL should begin a program to encourage
year-round responsible fan celebrations and sportsmanship.

The Canadian Press

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Azam tells House only two riots in 22 months; BSP, BJP walk out

LENGTH: 401  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Opposition BSP and BJP Monday staged a walkout from the state Assembly alleging
that the state government has failed to check incidents of communal violence and
lodged cases against innocent people in Muzaffarnagar riots.

The matter was raised during Question Hour by Congress member Nadeem Javed, who
sought to know from the government about the number of riots which took place in
the state between March 2013 and December 2014 and action taken against the
guilty.

In reply, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Azam Khan informed that only two riots
had taken place in the the said period. He said 477 cases were registered in
Muzaffarnagar riots and 1,359 accused were identified out of which 1,046 have
been arrested while 298 surrendered in the court. In Saharanpur riots, 237 cases
were registered in which 229 accused have been identified while 99 have been
arrested. Two have surrendered in the court while charge sheets have been filed
in 19 cases.

In his supplementary, Nadeem Javed said that 247 riots were witnessed in the
state, maximum in the country, during the period. Azam Khan, however, countered
him saying 50,000 riots had taken place during Congress regime.

BJP's Suresh Rana claimed that in Muzaffarnagar riots, FIRs were lodged against
11 persons, who were not alive during the riots. He said innocents were booked
and nearly 549 such people are languishing in jail. Azam, however, countered
that "some riot-accused move in government security and some have even reached
Parliament".

BJP's Suresh Khanna demanded constitution of a high level committee for taking
up the case of innocent people languishing in jail for Muzaffarnagar riots. Azam
turned it down stating that BJP had opposed communal violence bill in Parliament
and hence their intentions are not clear.

"You bring a bill in parliament to release all the accused, rioters and
murderers. There should be some yardstick for being innocent. Cases are in
court. There is no such incident of forming a committee. Such a committee should
be formed for Gujarat riots," Azam said.Unsatisfied with the reply, BJP staged a
walkout.

Leader of opposition Swami Prasad Maurya blamed the government for not being
serious over the issue.

Azam, however, stated that Samajwadi Party government believes in rule of law
unlike in BSP regime when doctors were murdered inside jail. Unsatisfied with
the reply, BSP also staged a walk out from the assembly.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Horror of August's mass riots could happen again

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 270 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across the country, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recommendations in our report."

The interim report from the panel detailed the "sometimes horrifying and tragic"
accounts of people's experiences of the disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims receive compensation quickly.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Voices, images tell story of race riot 100 years ago

BYLINE: JIM AUCHMUTEY; Staff

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 685 words


Exhibition preview

"Red Was the Midnight: The 1906 Atlanta Race Riot"

Through Aug. 31, 2007, at the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site. 450
Auburn Ave. N.E., Atlanta. Free. 404-331-5190. www.nps.gov/malu.

You pick up the receiver and hear a voice that sounds like a kindly Southern
granny --- the sort of voice you expect to share a cake recipe. But this voice
wants to share a horrible memory.

"I woke up somewhere around midnight and could feel tension in the room," the
woman says. "My mother and sister were kneeling in front of the window looking
out into the street. And I got up and said, 'What is it?' They said, 'Go back to
bed.' But I knew something was going on and I came to the window and knelt down
between them, and there I saw a man strung up to a light pole. Men and boys on
the street below were shooting at him till they riddled his body with bullets. I
will never forget it as long as I live. And that was the beginning of the race
riot in Atlanta."

The 1906 Atlanta Race Riot happened so long ago in a city that seems so
different. Simply making that time and place come to life was the biggest
challenge facing planners of an exhibition about the riot. The show opens today
at the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site.

It helped that they had an oral history from Evelyn Witherspoon, an Atlanta
schoolteacher who was 10 when the violence broke out. There are other riot
accounts in the show, all written and in some cases read. But Witherspoon's
recollection, recorded in 1979 for WRFG's "Living Atlanta" radio series, is the
only testimony heard in the voice of an eyewitness.

The exhibition, presented by the National Park Service's King site and the
Atlanta History Center, begins four days of events commemorating the riot
centennial this week (see box). The violence began in downtown Atlanta on the
night of Sept. 22, 1906, and lasted four days, claiming the lives of at least
two dozen people --- almost all of them black.

"It's a story that runs counter to Atlanta's image of itself," says co-curator
Andy Ambrose.

The show places the emphasis on understanding how such a thing could have
happened and how it changed Atlanta.

The riot itself takes up only half of the limited gallery space. Much of the
narrative is told in text panels and blown-up news coverage. That's because so
few tangible reminders remain. There are no known photos of the disorders taking
place, and almost no artifacts have surfaced.

One of the few objects on display is a single-barrel shotgun purchased for $5 in
1906 by Bud Woody, a white farmer in Gilmer County. According to the story
passed down in his family, the gun had been part of a shipment of weapons hidden
in caskets on a train bound for Atlanta "during the time of the troubles with
the Negroes."

For weeks before the riot, blacks in Atlanta had been secretly arming to defend
themselves.

"They knew something was coming," says co-curator Clarissa Myrick-Harris. "Riots
like this had been happening all over the country."

If there's any doubt those guns were needed, a panel lists the riot's confirmed
fatalities: 23 people, two known only by first name. There were almost certainly
others. The person Evelyn Witherspoon saw lynched has never been named.

At the end, the exhibition tries to explain the riot's double-edged legacy.

After 1906, Atlanta became more segregated as blacks withdrew into the safety of
their own community, most notably Auburn Avenue. But the riot also produced the
city's first interracial forums where white and black leaders met to make sure
the city never again erupted in racial fighting.

"It was an unequal arrangement, and whites called the shots," Ambrose says. "But
it was a beginning, and it had long-range repercussions."

Riot centennial

Four days of remembering beginning today with the exhibition opening and a
memorial service for riot victims at 1 p.m. at old Ebenezer Baptist Church. For
a listing of events: 770-423-6069. www.atlantaraceriot.org.

At 6 tonight, WRFG-FM (93.1) will rebroadcast its documentary "The Atlanta Race
Riot of 1906," which includes excerpts from Evelyn Witherspoon's account.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Atlanta History CenterThe Atlanta Race Riot of 1906 made
international news, including the cover of this French magazine.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Preview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Spike Island prison riot exhibition opens 30 years after 'mob rule just took
over'

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 570 words


These are the recollections of retired Detective Garda Jack Hartnett of the
Spike Island prison riot, which took place 30 years ago.

Cork County Council, which is turning the island into a tourism venue, has
opened up a permanent exhibition there to commemorate the riot, which left the
prison very badly damaged.

Retired Detective Garda Jack Hartnett with Co Cork Mayor John Paul O Shea at the
of-ficial opening of the Spike Island prison riot exhibition.

On the night of Saturday, August 31, 1985, Hartnett was station orderly in the
garda barracks in Cobh.

He recalls getting a phone call saying a riot had broken out. When he looked out
of the station window, he could see flames leaping from the prison.

Security in the prison wasn t up to much. There were no cells as such and
inmates were accommodated in the dormitories in A Block, which had been used for
Naval Service personnel only shortly before.

Spike Island

The old guard room was also used to house some of the inmates. There was on
average 100 prisoners held on Spike during the summer of 1985.

The riot erupted just before midnight and the few prison officers on duty were
quickly overpowered.

Some gardaí were dispatched from Cobh in a boat, but were met with overwhelming
opposition and were forced to lie low as Hartnett frantically phoned for
reinforcements.

It was bedlam,  he says.  The first guards who went out couldn t do anything.
The prisoners were all over the island and the situation was potentially very
serious.

An array of the weapons used during the Spike Island prison riot. Gardaí were
initially unable to reinforce the prison guards due to a lack of riot gear.

One crowd of reinforcements couldn t land on the pier as it was controlled by
prisoners armed with slash-hooks, knives etc. Our lads had no riot gear.

Riot gear was only available in Cork City, says Hartnett, and when it eventually
arrived gardaí were able to land on the island in force.

The rioting ended around 4am, but some diehard inmates climbed onto the roof of
Mitchel Hall and remained there until about 5pm on Sunday when they surrendered.

During the riot, A Block was destroyed by fire, as was the eastern end of B
Block.

The prisoners also hot-wired a JCB and did a lot of damage to the buildings with
it,  says Hartnett.

There had been no hint that a riot would take place because up to then there was
never a bad atmosphere. Despite the scale of the riot nobody was seriously hurt,
thank God.

Following the riot, the Department of Justice decided to put in secure cells in
the building.

The prison was eventually closed in 2005 and, a couple of years ago, the
Department of Justice handed the island over to Cork County Council.

The local authority has ambitions plans to turn it into a tourist mecca.

Tom O Neill, who manages the Spike Island project, said the riot exhibition
would be a permanent feature.

It contains photographs, many taken by the then Cork Examiner, film footage and
uniforms of the time which were worn by prison officers and gardaí,  he says.

It will form part of a wider exhibition which features other penal times on the
island.

It was used to house convicts who were sent to Australia in the 19th century and
Anti-Treaty prisoners who were detained during the Civil War.

Other exhibitions will include the island s early life as a monastery and the
part it played in coastal defence when occupied by the British military and
later by the Irish military.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

York College professor seeks oral histories of York race riots

BYLINE: Brandie Kessler, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words


Oct. 24--When Peter Levy stood in front of dozens of York County business
leaders Wednesday to talk about the 1969 race riots in the city, he confessed
that many in the audience probably knew more about the events than he does.

"I should probably put a tape recorder in front of the people in this room,"
Levy said to the crowd inside The Yorktowne Hotel.

Levy was an invited speaker at the Rotary Club of York's meeting.

Although Levy has taught in the department of history and political science at
York College for about 20 years, he explained that he only recently started
researching the riots in York.

Levy said that he is interested in collecting oral histories of people who lived
through the riots.

It wasn't until the 1990s that details about the riots in York started to
surface, Levy said. He referenced the work of York's daily newspapers, and
credited them for starting the discussion.

Until then, even in books about the history of York County, the race riots got
very little attention, Levy said.

And York wasn't alone in that respect, he said.

"York's amnesia about it was not much different from other cities," Levy said,
referring to other places where race riots occurred in the late 1960s.

Two people were killed in the 1969 summer riots: city police Officer Henry
Schaad, who was white, and Lillie Belle Allen of South Carolina, who was black.
Thirty

years later, the York County district attorney's office reopened the
investigations into the deaths, and charged people in each murder. Three men
were convicted or pleaded guilty in the Schaad case; nine were convicted or
pleaded guilty in the Allen case.

Although more information is now available about what happened, Levy said, he
wants to learn more from the people who lived through the riots, and why they
happened.

He is interested in stories like that of Jon Fisher.

Fisher, the executive director of the York County Food Bank, said he grew up in
the 500 block of South Pershing Avenue near West Maple Street. He lived there
with his parents and sister.

Fisher recalled being the only white boy his age in the mostly black
neighborhood. He was about 4 years old when the riots happened in York. Back
then, people didn't talk about what happened.

He knows now that the riots had an influence on his childhood.

"I had two groups of friends," Fisher said. "White and black. I never fit in
with either one of them."

Levy said many people don't enjoy exploring history's somber moments, especially
moments they lived through. But, he said, their stories are valuable.

Anyone interested in sharing their first-hand experience of the 1969 race riots
in York can contact Levy at plevy@ycp.edu

Contact Brandie Kessler at 771-2035.

___ (c)2013 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at
www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131024-YO-York-College-professor-seeks-oral-histories-of-York-race-
riots-1024-20131024

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2013 York Daily Record


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Scottish police sent to help tackle England riots

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 579 words

ABSTRACT

All eight Scottish forces lend personnel and equipment to police in northern
England and Midlands

FULL TEXT

Scottish police are sending at least 250 riot-trained officers and riot vans to
help English forces tackle the outbreak of rioting, which has lasted for four
nights.

The Association of Chief Police Officers Scotland (Acpos) said all eight
Scottish forces were lending personnel and equipment to police in northern
England and the Midlands, but refused to release details for operational
reasons.

Many English forces not directly involved in policing riots and disturbances in
their areas began lending support earlier this week.

The announcement of help from Scotland follows a day of deliberation by Scottish
forces. On Tuesday, there were rumours that 300 police officers from Strathclyde
were being sent south, but the force quickly denied these.

Neither Strathclyde - one of the UK's largest forces - nor Lothian and Borders
police would go into detail about the numbers involved, but it is understood all
eight forces have released riot vans and officers trained in public order
policing.

In a brief statement, Acpos said: "The officers, equipment and vehicles will
come from all eight Scottish forces.

"The situation is being constantly monitored between the Association of Chief
Police Officers Scotland and colleagues in England, and any further assistance
required will be given careful consideration."

An Acpos spokesman said it was long-standing practice not to discuss the number
of officers or types of equipment involved in "mutual aid" deployments. "We're
not at this stage getting into any numbers game," he added.

It is understood the officers involved are congregating in Glasgow this morning
for a briefing about their roles before being sent south.

Alex Salmond, speaking about the deployment on BBC Radio Scotland, said the
police had a duty to help. "Obviously we've got an obligation to help if we can,
and that's what's being done," the first minister said.

Salmond, backed by Scottish National party MSPs and party activists, complained
about the media and social media reporting of the "UK riots" when no Scottish,
Welsh or Northern Irish city has been involved.

On Wednesday, BBC News 24 amended its onscreen titles, headlining its coverage
as "England riots". Sky News is continuing to title its coverage "UK riots".

Salmond said Scottish society was different to England's, implying that riots
were much less likely in Scotland. Referring to the riots being UK-wide
increased the risks of copycat riots and risked damaging Scotland's reputation
as a tourism destination, he told BBC Radio Scotland.

"We know we have a different society in Scotland, and one of my frustrations
yesterday was to see this being described on BBC television and Sky as 'riots in
the UK,'" he added.

But the Scottish Liberal Democrat MP Willie Rennie accused Salmond of "seeking
narrow political advantage out of the misery of others".

He added: "Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder, and
instead of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's
efforts would be better spent addressing those deep-rooted issues here."

Two teenagers are to appear in court in Scotland on Wednesday accused of trying
to orchestrate riots using Facebook. A 16-year-old will appear in court in
Glasgow, while an 18-year-old is expected to appear before Dundee sheriff court.
Tayside police said it was pursuing other similar investigations.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

More needs to be done for 1984 victims: Jairam Ramesh

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Feb. 17 -- Union minister Jairam Ramesh on Sunday termed the 1984
anti-Sikh riots as a "blot" on the country and the Congress and suggested that
more needs to be done for the victims and to bring the guilty to book.

He also refused to compare the violence with the 2002 post-Godhra riots, saying
the latter were "born out of hatred" in Gujarat.

"... 1984 riots are a blot on all of us. It is a blot on the Congress, it is a
blot on the nation... 2002 riots were born out of underlying 60-year ideology of
hatred and demonization," Ramesh told Karan Thapar in his Devil's Advocate
programme on CNN-IBN.

The rural development minister said this when he was questioned about Congress
vice-president Rahul Gandhi's recent TV interview in which he drew parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots.

Rahul had said that then Congress government at the Centre had tried to stop the
riots that took place after the assassination of Indira Gandhi and Narendra
Modi's Gujarat did just opposite to it when 2002 Gujarat riots took place.

Ramesh said what Rahul stated was "completely true." "Because I was right here.
The Prime Minister was going around the city making an appeal...Army was called
in...," he said.

"I think what Mr Gandhi was saying which was refusing to acknowledge that 1984
riots was not born out of an ideology of hatred which the 2002 riots were... We
were re-elected in Punjab, we lost Punjab, we won Punjab... Sikhs voted for us,
Sikhs voted against us...," Ramesh said.

When asked whether Rahul should have apoligised for 1984 riots as Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh did, Ramesh said, "There is much to be said for an apology, there
is much to be said for ensuring the justice is meted out to the people who are
victims of 1984 riots in terms of compensation... in terms of bringing the
guilty to book..."

When repeatedly asked the same question, he said, "I can't speak on his
(Rahul's) behalf. All I am saying that the Prime Minister has apologized... the
Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) has apologised... Mr Gandhi has been to the
Golden temple..."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Reading the Riots: Live Q&A with Paul Lewis

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 321 words

ABSTRACT

The Guardian's special projects editor, Paul Lewis, answers questions on the
Reading the Riots study and reporting the unrest

FULL TEXT

Over the course of the riots in England last month, the Guardian's special
projects editor, Paul Lewis, was out on the streets speaking to rioters,
residents of the affected areas and police, while tweeting the action live as
disorder spread from London to other major UK cities.

News of the events spread largely via social networking tools such as Twitter,
which Lewis used extensively throughout the August unrest, to report events as
they happened, be guided by readers as to where to go, and monitor reaction -
gaining some 35,000 followers for his raw reports and extensive coverage.

Last month, the Guardian launched a study - Reading the Riots- in conjunction
with the London School of Economics to examine the most serious bout of civil
unrest in a generation. As well as interviewing hundreds of those who took part
and were affected by the riots, the research team will conduct an advanced
analysis of more than2.5m riot-related Twitter messages. You can read more about
the study here.

On Tuesday this week, Lewis will also be giving evidence along with Professor
Tim Newburn, who is leading the LSE's involvement in the project,to the home
affairs select committee. The pair will be questioned about the research study,
its objectives and what they expect to find.

From 2pm (BST) today, Lewis will be online and able to answer your questions on
the Reading the Riots study, his reporting during the unrest, and his hopes for
the findingsin the comments section on this article.

Post you questions below and come back at 2pm to read some of Paul's answers,
the best of which we'll also be posting here.

If you were in some way involved in the riots and would like to be interviewed
for the study you can get in touch with the Reading the Riots team via
readingtheriots@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

UK riots aftermath: live updates

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 340 words

ABSTRACT

· US supercop warns arrests not only answer to riots· Police and prime minister
at odds over riots and reforms· Magistrates' courts continue to hold special
riot hearings· IPCC may have misled media over Duggan shooting

FULL TEXT

12.15pm: This is David Batty with live coverage of the aftermath of the riots in
several cities in England. With calm now apparently restored to the streets of
London, Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool, attention is now focused on how to
prevent a repeat of the widespread unrest and what measures should be taken
against those involved in the riots and looting of the past week.

You can follow me on Twitter @David_Batty

Here are the main recent developments:

· Abdullah Khan, the uncle of brothers Shazad Ali and Abdul Musavir, who were
struck by a car along with Haroon Jahan while guarding shops from looters in
Birmingham, has told a press conference that the family wants justice. Police
also appealed for further witnesses.

· , the prime minister's new crime adviser, US "supercop" Bill Bratton, has
warned.

·

· The historian and broadcaster .

· There is growing concern over some of the sentences handed down to those
involved in the past week's disorder. Mother-of-two Ursula Nevin, who slept
through the riots in Manchester, has been jailed for five months for accepting a
pair of looted shorts.

·

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) says it may have .

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                        May 31, 2002 Friday Home Edition

Books tell ugly tale of 1921 race riot ;
Black business area leveled in Oklahoma

BYLINE: GRACIE BONDS STAPLES

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 819 words


Not many can tell you what happened that night, May 31, 1921. Until recently,
the story existed only on the pages of a few history books across the country.

But that may be changing. Four books have been published in the past six months
about what happened 81 years ago today, when the worst race riot in history
killed an estimated 300 people in Tulsa, Okla., and left the prosperous black
Greenwood section of town burned to the ground.

Ironically, it took a new tragedy to focus attention on the decades-old one. In
the media flurry after Timothy McVeigh bombed the Alfred P. Murrah Building in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma State Rep. Don Ross handed Bryant Gumbel a copy of
historian Scott Ellsworth's "Death in a Promised Land: The Tulsa Race Riot of
1921," the first historical account of the Tulsa riots. Gumbel went back to do a
story. That, Ellsworth said, led to the formation of the Tulsa Race Riot
Commission.

Among those converging on Tulsa was Tim Madigan, a Fort Worth Star-Telegram
reporter assigned to cover the story of the discovery of a mass grave from the
Tulsa riots.

Learning about Tulsa, Madigan said, is a big part of the healing that is needed.

"Tulsa," he said, "is a dramatic metaphor for the larger reality of racial
history in America. I believe that we as a society, a white society, must come
forward and say, 'We know this happened. We will not look away from our past
anymore.' Then we must make amends."

Madigan wrote "The Burning: Massacre, Destruction and the Tulsa Race Riot of
1921" --- one of the four books that have been published since November about
the riots. Others include Rilla Askew's "Fire in Beulah" (Viking, 2001), James
Hirsch's "Riot and Remembrance" (Houghton Mifflin, 2002) and Alfred Brophy's
"Reconstructing the Dreamland" (Oxford University Press, 2002).

Tulsa's riots began as many had --- a white woman accused a black man of rape.

As many as 10,000 white men and boys gathered to confront a group of black World
War I veterans who were trying to protect the accused man from a lynching.

A struggle ensued, a shot went off and the riot was on. Police officers and the
local unit of the National Guard joined in the burning of 35 blocks of a
thriving black business district.

When it was over, at least 200 to 300 people, mostly black, had been killed.

Kinney Booker was 8 when he and his family were forced from their burning home.
He welcomes the new attention to the riot. So does Jewel Smitherman Rogers,
another survivor.

They wonder, however, if recalling the hateful events of that awful day will
cause even more hatred. Rogers, who now lives in Perris, Calif., fears that
remembering "stirs up antagonism with a lot of people."

"But there again, the story needs to be told," Rogers said. "My family suffered,
and yet they all were able to go through this, to keep their faith and rebuild."

Booker, who returned to Tulsa after teaching for 30 years in Los Angeles, said
the riots left him angry for years. Now, at 88, he says he has worked through
the anger.

"But I will never forget what happened," he said. "None of us should forget."

The willingness to publish these accounts is part of America's way of dealing
with its past sins, said Askew, the author of one of the four new books about
the riots.

"I think there is a synergism happening on many fronts," she said. "The biggest
difficulty right now is people think the battle is won, and it is not."

Most major publishers are only just recently beginning to include reference to
the riots in school textbooks.

In some school districts, including such history is part of the core curriculum.
In others, it's up to the discretion of the teacher.

In Georgia, Tulsa's race riot is not part of the state's core curricula.
Teachers can teach about the riots when they feel it is pertinent, said Amanda
Seals, director of media relations. They generally choose to do so in a section
that deals with social change in the 1920s, Seals said.

Eugene Earsom, social studies director at the Oklahoma State Department of
Education in Oklahoma City, said the 1921 riot has been reflected in Oklahoma
history books since the 1960s and has been part of the state's core curriculum
since 1993.

Issues of race, he said, have been "largely ignored or glossed over" in U.S.
history texts in districts all over the country. Books tend to focus discussions
about race relations on the 1960s and 1970s.

Although no numbers were available, publishers say the books about the riots are
doing quite well. In addition to all the media attention, one is generating at
least a cursory look from Hollywood.

Hirsch said a production company has expressed interest in turning his book into
a film and is looking for a TV network for such a venture.

"What's great is how well the book has been received," he said. "Obviously it
will spread the word of an important story."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ruins of the Dreamland movie theater were testimony to the
violence in Tulsa, where 35 blocks were burned. / Tulsa Historical Society

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Unemployed youths triggering riots?

BYLINE: Bijin Jose

SECTION: VADODARA

LENGTH: 611 words


VADODARA: Baroda simmers and this time a different generation might be
responsible for it. Youngsters, who were too small at the time of the 2002 riots
, may be the ones whose restiveness is causing fresh riots in the city, police
and local sources said.

Locals in the sensitive areas assert that most of the rioting is triggered by
youth idling around the city streets. They gather in no time when a petty
incident takes place and trigger a riot.

"The walled city area is occupied mostly by people with weak economic
backgrounds. The economic instability makes the youth here susceptible to
anti-social elements who provoke violence. There needs to be self-realization
among the poor that riots will affect only them and not the rich," said
prominent sociologist N Rajaram.

"Youngsters in the sensitive areas do not support their community leaders. They
have not seen and experienced the loss after 2002 riots. Most of the youth
regardless of their faith are uneducated and do menial jobs for survival," said
Lalabhai Shyamwala, a social worker.

Many in the walled city feel that the fresh round of violence in the city since
the last couple of years is due to lack of effective leadership in the
communities. Recent riots in the city occurred over petty issues.

"Immediately after the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992, there were riots in
Ahmedabad, Anand and Surat. Surprisingly, there were no widespread riots in
Vadodara, which was known for riots in the early 1980s. Peace measures were
taken much ahead of time by the police and administration then," said Rajaram.

Rajaram added that peace committees were formed at the Mohalla level by the then
commissioner ahead of Babri Masjid demolition. The police worked with committee
leaders to maintain peace. They also took preventive custody of notorious
elements to avoid any violence.

Affluent and educated people from both the communities in Fatehpura, Yakutpura,
Wadi, Panigate and other sensitive areas have relocated to other parts of the
city following the 2002 riots. However, people who stayed back have chosen to do
so for their inherited properties.

"Illiteracy and unemployment have always been a problem. Under Suraksha Setu, we
are enabling the youth to be employable and independent. We are also conducting
peace meetings with people from each mohalla as a step towards peace building
between the communities," said police commissioner E Radhakrishana.

Radhakrishana added that they have devised a scheme 'Mahila Punarvas' to
sensitize women in the affected areas about the damages caused by riots.
Sensitizing women and children can considerably reduce the frequency of
incidents of violence.

Shantilal Soni, jeweller: "Take a stroll at around 11pm and you will see
youngsters sitting in groups in every nook and corner of the street. Even a
small incident can trigger night-long clashes. Such tensions constantly hamper
routine life here"

Kruti Rana, standard XII student: "Riots are not only devastating for elders,
but are also equally painful for students. Schooling is really important, but
due to the riots we are forced to sit at home often"

Ashfak Pathan, standard XII student: "If the root cause of communal clashes is
petty, then people should come forward and settle them. Riots are traumatizing
for us as well as for our parents, who are anxious till we return from school"

Siraj Pathan, shop owner: "Fatehpura, where I have my shop has become infamous
for meaningless riots. I hope that community leaders come forward and sincerely
work towards peace instead of tokenism like offering garlands. The locality can
become the safest zone in the city if this happens"

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            August 6, 2015 Thursday

Communal violence higher in Jammu

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, Aug. 6 -- While Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed fewer riots than the
average national level, but around four to five cases of riots get reported on
average daily in the state.

A total of 72,126 cases of riots were reported in India in 2013, with Bihar
reporting the maximum 11,931 cases. Kerala was second, reporting 10,042 riot
cases followed by Maharashtra 9,610, Karnataka 7,237 and West Bengal 6,142.

According to the official details of the police department available with The
Kashmir Monitor, 1714 cases of riots were reported in 2013 in Jammu and Kashmir.
During 2014, 1524 such cases were reported in the state.

A riot is a form of civil disorder commonly characterized by a group lashing out
in a violent public disturbance against authority, property or people. Riots
involve vandalism and the destruction of property, public or private.

Police sources said unlike states like Bihar, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh, less
number of communal riot cases have been reported from the Muslims dominated
Jammu and Kashmir.

"In Valley, most of the rioting cases that have been reported are vandalization
of shops, cars, offices, during anti-India protests," a senior police official
told The Kashmir Monitor.

He said some of the separatists are also facing charges of rioting. "These
leaders have been found involved in destructing public and private property
during protests in the Valley," the police official said.

However, he said barring few sectarian clashes, the Valley didn't witness any
sectarian or communal riots over the years. One such was the Budgam incident,
where the sectarian clashes broke out following dispute between two sects over
construction of a village road. Then there were incidents of arson during
clashes prompting authorities to impose restrictions.

"But maximum cases of communal riots have been reported from the Hindu dominated
Jammu region," the official said.

During 2013 and 2014, one major incident of communal riots was reported in
Kishtwar district of the Jammu region.

The communal riots sparked in Kishtwar on Eid Day after two communities started
targeting to each other. The pro-Hindu groups had alleged that the then MoS Home
Sajad Ahmad Kitchloo was behind these riots. However, the Muslim groups claimed
that some pro-Hindu groups had targeted shops and houses of Muslims in the
district during these clashes.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 August 6, 2015

Are '92-93 Mumbai riot victims history?

BYLINE: G Ramachandram

LENGTH: 985  words


With the execution of Yakub Memon, convicted for 1993 Bombay serial blasts,
there is a sigh of relief that the protracted and unending legal process in the
case has finally come to an end. The last minute unprecedented hearing of the
case- past midnight in the wee hours- has created a judicial history. The
convict was given every possible opportunity to defend himself, though the
opinion whether the death sentence could have been avoided is divided. The
Bombay serial blasts on March 12, 1993- India's first retaliation serial bomb
blasts- resulted in some 300 deaths, injuring more than 700 people and
destroying property worth Rs.27 crores. However, the execution of Yakub Memon
has re-opened the old wounds of the Bombay riots of December 1992 and January
1993.

The perpetrators of the riots have gone scot-free.  The disturbances and
violence that followed the Babri Masjid demolition left nearly 900 people,
mostly Muslims, dead in the financial capital of India.  The city of Mumbai has
never been the same since the riots.  It changed for the worse. The people who
engineered the riots are moving freely, while the victims are condemned to
suffer life long, with no relief given to them. The city's worst sectarian riots
were a blot on its most cosmopolitan, liberal and secular character.  Since
then, the city has witnessed many a bomb blasts, polarising people on communal
lines.

The Srikrishna Commission was constituted on January 25, 1993 to inquire into
the riots. It was disbanded on January 23, 1996 by the Shiv Sena-BJP government
and subsequently reconstituted, due to backlash of media and public protest,
three months later on May 28, 1996. Its Terms of Reference were expanded to
include the serial bomb blasts. The Commission had indicted many policemen and
politicians.  It reported that "From January 8, 1993, at least, there is no
doubt the Shiv Sena and Shiv Sainiks took the lead in organising attacks on
Muslims and their properties under the guidance of several leaders from the
level of Shakha Pramukh to that of Sena Chief Bal Thackeray," who acted as the
"veteran general commanding his loyal Shiv Sainiks to retaliate". It reported
that the demolition of Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992, led to the riots and
the serial bomb blasts were a retaliation of the riots. The riots were mainly
due to escalation of hostilities after large scale protests by Muslims against
the demolition, which were initially peaceful.

The Commission had recommended action against all those indicated. However, the
Commission's report was rejected by the Shiv Sena- BJP government in 1998.  And
the subsequent Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra had neither the courage
nor the political will to implement the report and take it to its logical
conclusion. The Commission wanted FIRs to be filed against the people involved
in the riots. But no action was taken  on the report .This inaction on the part
of the state government had contributed to the growing perception  among the
Muslims that they were singled out for punishment, while the criminal offenders
belonging to the majority community are set free. Besides, many indicted
policemen were promoted, while the indicted politicians continue to hold high
public offices.

The Srikrishna Commission report found that the police had made no effort to
detect the offences, even when the accused were named by the complainants.  It
had recommended reopening of some 1358 cases closed arbitrarily. The Supreme
Court had asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act on the
recommendations. A task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Commission.  And only five cases were reopened that too ended in acquittal, due
to half-hearted prosecution.

When Radhabai Chawl in Jogehswari was set on fire, some 13 people were killed.
The state government had shown no interest in taking action against the rioters
and those who perpetuated the riots and spread the communal venom.  Unless the
culprits are brought to justice, it is difficult to win the trust of the
minority community.  In February 2006, a Sessions Court in Mumbai acquitted 15
persons charged of rioting and murder, in the post Babri Masjid demolition riots
of January 1993.  But the prosecution failed to show the recovery of weapons.

If only the persons responsible for the Bombay riots were punished, the Muslim
youth would not have taken to terrorist activities. A sense of injustice has
driven many a young Muslims to take to arms and violence.  As per the charge
sheet filed by the NIA on July 17, 2013 against 12 persons, alleged to have
links with the IM, had the genesis to Babri Masjid demolition. The NIA said that
the SIMI was the creation of the Gujarat riots of 2002 and the Babri Masjid
demolition happened because the Muslims wanted "to take revenge for atrocities
on Muslims." In Surat bomb plantation case of 2008, the Gujarat police
identified some 54 Muslims youths as accused from across the country, being
motivated to take "revenge for the destruction of Babri Masjid, Gujarat riots."
There are several such cases involving the Muslims in violent terrorist
activities, as an act of retaliation against the demolition of Babri-Masjid and
the Gujarat riots.

The Srikrishna Commission Report says that Bombay serial bomb blasts were
directly linked to the riots that followed the Babri Masjid demolition. Why was
no action taken against the perpetrators of the riots by the state government?
The rule of law must be applied judiciously to all criminals, cutting across
communities. And what is equally important is speedy justice. Only then can the
feeling of being selectively targeted and discriminated among the Muslim
community be mitigated.  It is absolutely necessary to bring to justice the
people responsible for the Babri Masjid demolition and the Bombay riots to heal
the wounds. The victims of the riots are denied justice.

G Ramachandram

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Reading the Riots: The politicians and police rushed in to condemn. Twitter
helped clean up: Analysis of riot-related tweets dispels myth of site as vehicle
for social unrest

BYLINE: James Ball and Paul Lewis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 739 words


For many people, the England riots began with a flurry of curious Twitter
messages shortly before 9pm on Saturday 6 August. "There is a photo of a police
car burning circulating, claiming it's outside Tottenham police station
#markduggan #tottenham shooting," one of the messages read. Users were sharing
news of a police car ablaze outside Tottenham police station.

A later photo of a bus on fire travelled still further as #TottenhamRiots became
the top trending subject, with users trying to find out news, updating others on
whether they had arrived home safely, and even passing on calls for "legal
observers" to head to Tottenham.

News that a protest over the police shooting of Mark Duggan had descended into
violence was being passed along a chain of thousands of Twitter users before
journalists had even arrived at the scene.

An in-depth analysis of a database of more than 2.6m riot-related tweets has
revealed the ways in which the network was used during the disturbances.
"Politicians and commentators were quick to claim that social media played an
important role in inciting and organising riots, calling for sites such as
Twitter to be closed should events of this nature happen again. But our study
has found no evidence of significance in the available data that would justify
such a course of action in respect to Twitter," said Prof Rob Procter of the
University of Manchester, who led a team of academics conducting the analysis.
"In contrast, we do find strong evidence that Twitter was a valuable tool for
mobilising support for the post-riot clean-up."

The study, conducted as part of Reading the Riots, the Guardian and London
School of Economics investigation into the riots, was based on a database
provided by Twitter. Relevant tweets were drawn from dozens of riot-related
hashtags - such as #EnglandRiots or #BirminghamRiots - which were used at the
time to pool tweets.

The England riots were a seminal moment for Twitter. With mainstream media
organisations often struggling to keep up with the fast-moving and unpredictable
spread of the unrest, millions of people turned to the site for information.
That led to a misreading of how the network was being used.

Within days, Twitter itself was being blamed for the contagion. Amid the panic,
Britain's then most senior police officer, Tim Godwin, in command at Scotland
Yard, contemplated seeking the authority to "switch it off".

"Everyone watching these horrific actions will be struck by how they were
organised via social media," David Cameron told an emergency parliamentary
meeting. "We are working with the police, the intelligence services and industry
to look at whether it would be right to stop people communicating via these
websites and services when we know they are plotting violence, disorder and
criminality."

However, while politicians, journalists and police were constantly tweeting
about the disorder, rioters were not. Perhaps unsurprisingly, those taking part
in the looting were mostly avoiding communicating on public forums.

"The internet and that is a bit too bait, so no one really broadcasts it on the
internet," said one Hackney rioter. "Like in Twitter there's like a hashtag
innit, like if someone hashtags riots you can go to that certain page and see
what everyone has been saying about the riots. Police could easily go to that
page there and see who's been setting up or organising groups to come."

Not a single person has been convicted for inciting riots on Twitter, and the
270 rioters interviewed indicated they were far more likely to be using the
private BlackBerry Messenger network on their mobile phones.

Amid the enormous database of tweets, researchers discovered only a tiny
fraction that did attempt to either encourage or express support for rioters.

Twitter did, however, show it was entirely capable of mobilising large numbers
of people on to the streets when it was used by the public to organise a
clean-up of riot-damaged streets.

Shortly after midnight on Tuesday 9 August, in the middle of the third night of
rioting, Dan Thompson, a Worthing-based artist who tweets as @artistsmakers,
suggested Twitter users should take to the streets the following morning to help
clear up the damage.

The idea, tagged #riotcleanup, soon dwarfed even Twitter coverage of the night's
riots. More than 12,000 people posted messages under the tag, which were
retweeted more than 31,000 times - reaching more than 7 million users.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

A study of tolerance;
TV COVER STORY

BYLINE: Emma Brown

SECTION: TV MAGAZINE; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 711 words


The Great Australian Race Riot delves into the rich history of the nation's
riots, writes Emma Brown.

FOR Peter FitzSimons The Great Australian Race Riot is a marriage of two of his
greatest loves: his passion for Australian history and his genuine appreciation
of multiculturalism and what it has given Australia.

So who better to present this three-part documentary series, an explosive
journey that uncovers the country's forgotten race riots that have helped shaped
the nation.

"This was a wonderful project that really played to my strengths as I love
bringing Australian history to life and I love multiculturalism and how as
Australians we just get on with it," the bestselling author, columnist, and
storyteller explains.

While the subject matter can at times seem a bit grim and depressing, FitzSimons
in his inimitable fashion brings some humour and charm to the material as well
as exposing the upside to some of the historical events.

While the action starts from the golden sands of Cronulla beach, site of
Australia's most infamous and freshest race wound, he is quick to point out this
riot is just one in a long line.

"Cronulla beach was not an aberration in Australian history. It did make
Australians reel back in shock and horror and look at what had happened and say
this is not what we're into, this is not who we are," FitzSimons says.

The Cronulla beach riots of 2005 targeted men of 'Middle Eastern appearance' and
in the following days resulted in Lebanese-Australian youth rising up,
responding quickly in a series of retaliations.

But FitzSimons believes there is a definite upside to this ugly incident and
many of the race riots in our history.

"The lesson we learn as a nation after an event like Cronulla beach is that that
way lies madness. We don't want that for our country and we can't, and don't
want to raise our children in that world."

Australia, he says is much like the beach culture we're so fond of.

"The beach is my favourite place in Australia where people of all races and
colours lay side-by-side, a great big melting pot and that is what we want
Australia to be like."

While he readily admits Australians have had their friction points over the
years we, as a nation, have always come back together.

He suggests the recent siege in Martin Place Sydney is a case in point as there
was a fear that the Muslim community may be turned on after the tragic outcome.

"But rather than that there has been a rise in empathy. I went to Martin Place
just after the siege and Muslims were there in force and were being embraced by
the community."

On the journey FitzSimons exposes heroes and villains over a 170-year window in
history and demonstrates how mobs of every ethnicity have transformed our
nation.

Race riots became a feature of the Australian landscape as far back as 1840's
Melbourne with the sectarian violence between Catholics and Protestants.

FitzSimons says at the time The Age newspaper strongly advocated that this type
of hostility was not welcome in the new world.

Other battles and riots he looks at include those between Japanese, Timorese and
white settlers in Broome and the race riots of the late 1800s. The Snowy River
Hydro-Electric Scheme saw many conflicts in the 1950s which come under review
here. These clashes involved European workers including British, German, Greek,
Irish, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, and Yugoslavian immigrants.

The more recent 2004 Redfern riots are also investigated. The riots were sparked
by the death of young indigenous man, Thomas Hickey, and lead to a full blown
overnight riot between Aboriginal youth and the police.

A cast of expert researchers expands on the stories, while a medical historian
explores the weaponry of the fights, and a riot psychologist explains the
science of mob mentalities.

The three episodes tell a story that is shocking, heartfelt, and at times
humorous but ultimately FitzSimons shows how race riots consistently reveal a
window into who we are as a county and where we want to go.

"There is the ugliness of the mob mentality, madness takes over, but this always
dies down," he says.

After each altercation FitzSimons reveals how Australia is left changed in the
riot aftermath - sometimes for worse, but surprisingly often, with a new, more
tolerant identity.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter FitzSimons hosts new show The Great Australian Race Riot.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            January 24, 2016 Sunday

Riot police system to end

LENGTH: 313 words


The riot police system, under which paramilitary police were recruited by the
Defense Ministry, will officially fade into history 45 years after it was
introduced.

The system, which has long been considered a symbol of the nation's dictatorial
rule, will be officially scrapped Monday, when a legal revision comes into
effect, the National Police Agency said.

The riot police have gradually been replaced by police conscripts, who choose to
serve their mandatory national service in the police rather than in the
military, and whose role is not officially linked to North Korea.

The riot police system was established in 1971 under the military-backed Park
Chung-hee administration, officially to combat demonstrations led by North
Korean spies. The riot police were randomly selected among military conscripts
by the Defense Ministry.

Amid the widespread anti-dictatorship sentiment, the riot police played a
central role in cracking down on rallies in the name of maintaining public
order. Their job also included managing traffic and guarding important
facilities.

The continued use of riot police, which runs as a paramilitary organization, to
confront protestors with shields, clubs and tear gas has sparked criticism from
activists.

Amid the criticism and shrinking population, the National Police Agency set up a
new scheme to recruit police conscripts upon application in 1983 to gradually
replace the riot police system.

The Defense Ministry stopped recruiting riot police in January 2012 and the last
batch of riot police were discharged in September 2013.

According to the police, the total number of riot police who completed their
service stands at nearly 33,000.

In South Korea, all the able-bodied men are required to serve the around
two-year mandatory military service as the country technically remains at war
with North Korea since the 1950-53 Korean War.

By Ock Hyun-ju (

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              May 15, 2005 Sunday

Ignoring riots won't make them go away

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 726 words


The headline on the late April edition of The Nation magazine's Web page catches
your eye. It reads: "The Lincoln Museum and Springfield's Shame."

The accompanying story is about our treatment, or non-treatment, of the city's
1908 race riots as opposed to the way we are treating the new Lincoln
Presidential Museum and Library. These ripples have been spreading since 1991.
That is when two girls who were sixth-graders at the time, Lindsay Harney (now
Lindsay Price) and Amanda Staab, wrote a report for history class about the 1908
riots. Their report correctly pointed out that the riots were ignored in modern
Springfield.

Co-author Price, who along with Staab still lives in Springfield, says that
every four or five years the subject of their paper comes up again.

The new article in The Nation is by writer Adrian Brune, who is writing a book
about early 20th Century race riots. Brune is right when she describes
Springfield as conflicted about how the city deals with the riots, when it deals
with them at all.

The problem has always been that a lot of people would like to forget that they
ever happened here. However, the riots were historically significant, led to the
creation of the NAACP, and they still deserve greater recognition in modern
Springfield.

Here is how Brune describes the riots in her article: "a white lynch mob,
angered over police protection given to two innocent black men falsely accused
of rape and murder, destroyed the entire black neighborhood that had grown up
around the Springfield factories where former slaves worked for scab wages ...
more than $200,000 in damage, more than 50 businesses leveled to the ground, 70
people injured, six fatally shot and two black men lynched without justification
... the flight of more than 2,000 blacks from their homes."

She does not mention, and perhaps doesn't know, that rioters also tried to set
fire to Lincoln's home.

The first official observance of the riots was held in 1994, three years after
Amanda and Lindsay's paper and 86 years after the riots. In August 1994
memorials for four people who died in the riots were dedicated at Oak Ridge
Cemetery. Later, the city erected markers at the sites of the riots.

"Three years ago, however," Brune writes, "shortly after ground was broken for
the museum, construction workers removed those markers to make way for the new
buildings. A couple of those markers went back up recently but not the one that
once stood where the back corner of the library is today. The city plans to
re-install the monument but still hasn't figured out where to put it."

Staab, who is a first-grade teacher, is quoted in The Nation article as saying
she still doesn't think the city is doing enough 14 years after the paper was
written. " ... (As) a teacher," she says, "I believe that children and adults
should know about all the different types of history, not just the type that
builds up a town."

She is right. We have done better in recent years. The Convention and Visitors
Bureau distributes a brochure on the riots that can be used as a map for a
walking tour. But visitors have to know about the riots and their significance
first, then find the brochure.

Last year, Tim Farley, executive director of the Convention of Visitors Bureau,
said he was talking with local African-American leaders about other ways to
present the history of the riots. That is a positive development, if those talks
have continued.

Richard Norton Smith, director of the Lincoln museum and library, has suggested
an exhibit be created at the museum to observe the riots' 100th anniversary in
2008.

But we should also create a traveling, educational exhibit on the riots; an
exhibit that moves from school to school all over central Illinois so that
students can study it, learn what happened and what its effects have been. A
1996 video documentary about the riots was circulated in schools at one time,
but I don't know if students still see it.

We were proud of the national attention Springfield received at the dedication
of the museum. But there hasn't been much notice paid to the attention we
received in The Nation. It's not the kind of attention we can be proud of.

But until we do a better job of recognizing what happened here in 1908, it is
the kind of national attention that will not go away. Nor should it.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN. LOCAL

                   Copyright 2005 The State Journal-Register


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

A Riot Broke Out and No One Was Surprised

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: Goa


Goa, March 2 -- A riot broke out on February 20 at Willacy Correctional
Facility, a Texas prison for "illegal immigrants". Two thousand inmates
demonstrated against their subjection to neglect and overwork. The situation
quickly escalated as inmates armed themselves with blunt instruments, swarming
the yard and dismantling and setting fire to the structures they'd been shackled
to for too long. As the situation grew from prison riot to an inmate takeover of
the facilities, guards sought to quell its progress with tear gas, but the wind
favoured the rioters.

Prison riots are frequent phenomena. Fortunately, this particular riot resulted
in no deaths. The costs were ultimately imposed only on the facility's owners.
In fact, this uprising literally shut down the prison. As of February 24, 921
inmates had been transferred to other facilities pursuant to completely vacating
the prison.

Many liberal reformists object to rioting as a legitimate tactic of effecting
positive change. They cite, as all anti-revolutionaries do, crackdowns on prison
life and the possible negative response of outsiders. However, prison riots have
historically proven a very useful tool in achieving the demands of malcontent
prisoners or at least giving voice to the voiceless.

In Manchester, England, the Strangeway Prison saw an extended riot and
occupation by inmates which began at a meeting in the facility's chapel. Guards
turned out in force, anticipating prisoner action that day. The chapel services
degenerated into inmates letting their captors know precisely what they thought
of them. Tensions built and the inmates eventually subdued the guards and took
their keys. The actions of the inmates convinced other guards to high-tail it
out, securing the prisoners' first victory and beginning a 25-day stand off.

Riots broke out at other institutions in solidarity with the Strangeway inmates.
By the end, £55 million in damage was done and public sympathy for the inmates'
horrendous conditions improved, resulting in national reforms.

In the case of the prisoners at Willacy, they are people who simply don't have
the right government papers, forced to live in makeshift tent cities. Claims
that the prisoners caused the riot are backward. The prison officials caused the
riot. The state caused the riot. The guards caused the riot. The riot was the
inevitable result of locking away and neglecting people who wanted nothing more
than to improve their material conditions. It would be a bleak, passionless
world where prisons were not burnt to the ground by the people trapped within
them.

(Center for a Stateless Society (c4ss.org) Contributing writer Ryan Calhoun is a
Philosophy student and activist at the University at Buffalo.)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

OPINION: England's riots: A line has been crossed

BYLINE: Sir Ronald Sanders, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1083 words


Aug. 12--The riots in London, which spread to other cities in England in a
copy-cat pattern, were unlike any that had been seen before, and when normalcy
is restored the British authorities will have to examine its origins very
carefully.

I use the word "origins" rather than "causes" because these riots did not appear
to be associated with a cause. No one carried placards; there were no calls for
change or justice; there were no marches and no demands. In fact, the simple
purpose behind the riots appeared to be looting and burning.

In London during the period of these August 2011 riots, and therefore able to
witness them at first hand, what alarmed me was that, for the most part, the
participants were very young people; some as young as 12 years old. And while
the majority of them in London were black, whites were also involved.

Going to school in London and later working there, I have lived through London
riots -- they were all associated with a cause or a protest. Looting did occur
as a result of some of them, but looting was not their main purpose. For
instance, the 1981 Brixton riots were caused by serious social and economic
problems affecting Britain's inner cities. Lord Scarman, who inquired into its
causes, famously blamed the riots on "racial disadvantage that is a fact of
British life".

In 1985, riots erupted in Brixton and Tottenham after hundreds of black people
in the two communities viewed the accidental shooting of Cherry Groce in Brixton
as police violence. The police broke into her home looking for her son who they
suspected in a firearms offence. This was exacerbated a week later by the death
of Tottenham resident Cynthia Jarrett, who died of heart failure after four
policemen burst into her home in a raid.

In 1990, there was a series of riots in British cities that started as protests
against a most unpopular Community Charge, known as the Poll Tax, introduced by
then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. It led to her downfall.

While each of these protests spawned riots and looting by persons who took
advantage of the opportunity to do so, looting was not their main purpose --
much more fundamental reasons, such as resisting institutional racism and
government high-handedness, underscored them. And this is how the August 2011
riots differ from any previous one. These were not "race" riots and they were
not protests against anything -- they were simply expeditions in villainy by
gangs of young people. It was their summer fun.

A few months ago, students protested in London against higher university fees
that would burden them with debt before they even find a job. They all had
placards and slogans. And, while there were clashes with police and moments of
violence, they had a limit and a leadership with whom negotiations could be
held.

These August riots declared no political or social purpose. They were shocking
in their single-minded looting and burning, and the obvious lack of fear or
respect for the police by the villains. Diane Abbot, the Jamaican-born, member
of the British House of Commons for the Labour Party correctly said that
"nothing excuses violence. There is no doubt that all types of mindless thugs
latched on to the disturbances".

As this commentary is being written, the cost of damage in the many London areas
that have been the playground for this youthful badness is estimated to be well
over Â£100 million (US$163 million). This is money that British Insurers will
have to find at a time when share values have fallen and markets are weak and
vulnerable. To this figure will have to be added the damage done in the cities
of Manchester, Salford, Liverpool, Nottingham and Birmingham.

Already in a difficult economic situation, and still officially in recession,
the British economy will be placed under even greater pressure than it now
endures. In turn, this will have negative consequences for creating employment
and for strengthening and expanding social benefit schemes. The people who will
be hardest hit by these increased economic and financial pressures will be those
in these very inner cities that have been this summer's playground for "all
types of mindless thugs".

The looters and burners were unmindful that they were destroying their own
communities, the places in which they live. While they burned and looted big
name shops, they also looted shops owned by small business people (many of them
Asians and Africans) who will not easily recover from the wanton destruction. It
may be significant that in one area, while clothing stores, supermarkets,
telephone shops and computer stores were looted, the book store, Waterstone,
stood untouched in splendid isolation. The desire to read a good book was
clearly not on anyone's list of goodies.

On day four of the riots, a London taxi driver bemoaned to me the drastically
adverse effect that they had on his business. Economic circumstances, he said,
had already reduced his income significantly, but the riots had caused English
people, who would normally visit London attractions, to stay at home.

Even the popular Notting Hill Carnival -- Europe's largest street festival --
scheduled for the end of August is in jeopardy as fear rises that it might be
used as an occasion for further mischief.

For me, the most important point about these August riots is that a line has
been crossed. This is not a summer of discontent manifesting itself in protests.
This is a new and uncharted season in which large numbers of young people have
no regard or respect for authority and little or no moral compass. Brazenly
confronting the fully-equipped riot-prevention police at close quarters was one
thing, but beating innocent people including older women and young men like
themselves, and deliberately driving a car at high speed mowing down and killing
three men trying to protect their shops is quite another. This speaks to a level
of lawlessness unprecedented in British culture and even in its history of riots
.

There is now something tragically wrong in Britain. And it has deeply affected
its young people in the inner cities. The British authorities should waste no
time in tackling it in a broad based and comprehensive way.

To see more of Caribbean News Now, go to http://www.caribbeannewsnow.com
Copyright (c) 2011, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110812-1CN-OPINION-England-s-riots
-A-line-has-been-crossed-0812-20110812

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CN


                                 Copyright 2011


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                  May 22, 2013

Croydon riots victims welcome change to 'out-of-date' law

BYLINE: Hannah Williamson and Andrew Bloss

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 461  words


Legislation set up to ensure riot victims receive compensation is to be
reviewed, as some of those affected in Croydon still wait for payouts following
the 2011 riots.

The 127-year-old Riot Damages Act will be independently reviewed by former
senior civil servant Neil Kinghan, who worked as a independent reviewer to
Wandsworth Council following the riots in August 2011.

The review aims to ensure the Riot Damages Act protects the vulnerable and
provides value for money, and will also examine the existing criteria used to
determine when compensation is payable, including how it defines a riot and who
should be liable to pay compensation.

Damian Green, Minister for Policing and Criminal Justice said: "The Riot Damages
Act was written more than a century ago and so it is only right we take action
to ensure it is fit for purpose.

"The aftermath of the 2011 riots showed the need for improvements to speed up
the payment of compensation to those who need it and weed out frivolous claims."

The announcement has been welcomed by Croydon Council and public meetings will
be organised in the borough over the next few months.

Council leader Councillor Mike Fisher said: "We recognise the frustration this
out-of-date act has caused our residents and businesses and we welcome the
government's response to our request for an independent review.

"The existing legislation originates from 1886, and is not fit for purpose.For
example it does not give the council any legal powers to challenge insurance
companies and do more to help those affected by the riots in Croydon in 2011."

In February, Croydon North MP Steve Reed, called on the Government to support
riot victims after speaking with residents who failed to receive compensation
for damage to their homes and businesses.

Bushra Ahmed, whose family's launderette and dry-cleaners Crystal Clean was
burned down during the riots, said the review was a step in the right direction.

She said: "They are obviously doing a review because it didn't work. Around 18
months on, I am slightly nearer to compensation but there are many others who
aren't.

"For whatever reason it went wrong, if we do nothing else but learn from the
mistakes that we made, it could potentially help in the future."

Steve Reed, MP for Croydon North said: "Our community was hit hard by the riots
but now, nearly two years later, many people are still waiting for the help and
compensation that was promised.

"We need a more streamlined and effective way of supporting people whose lives
are wrecked by riots instead of legislation that was passed when Queen Victoria
was on the throne.

"Too many people who were the victims of burning and looting also became the
victims of an out-dated and uncaring process when they needed help to get back
on their feet."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2012 Tuesday

Russian TV and radio highlights for 8-14 October 2012

LENGTH: 2230 words


In the week 8-14 October, the Pussy Riot feminist punk band was back in the
headlines after one of its members was released from custody. Other highlights
on the end-of-week news review programmes on the main Russian television
channels included the launch of the second line of the Nord Stream gas pipeline.

Elsewhere, damaging revelations about opposition leader Sergey Udaltsov made in
a TV documentary continued to reverberate.

Release of punk band member rekindles debate

On 10 October Yekaterina Samutsevich, one of the three members of the Pussy Riot
punk band jailed for performing an anti-Putin "punk prayer" in a Moscow church,
was freed on appeal.

The surprise release of Yekaterina Samutsevich turned her into a TV star. She
featured in reports on all the main channels, with lengthy interviews on
privately-owned REN TV and Gazprom-Media-owned but editorially independent Ekho
Moskvy radio. She also gave a shorter live interview to "Tsentralnoye
Televideniye", an offbeat liberal show on Gazprom-Media-owned NTV, which is
otherwise known for its negative reporting of the protest movement in Russia.

The latest development rekindled the debate provoked by the Pussy Riot's stunt
in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. Russian society remains deeply divided
on the issue and this was reflected by television coverage, with
state-controlled channels taking a strong anti-Pussy-Riot stance, while the
liberal-minded "Nedelya" programme on REN TV and "Tsentralnoye Televideniye" on
NTV, as well as Ekho Moskvy radio, had a more balanced approach.

Reports on state-controlled Channel One and official state channel Rossiya 1
appeared to be aiming to discredit Pussy Riot and, in the same breath, the
protest movement in Russia in general.

"No politics" in Pussy Riot case - state-controlled TV

State-controlled channels went to some lengths to play down the political nature
of the Pussy Riot "punk prayer", presenting it as an anti-religious stunt.

According to Channel One, initially the "punk prayer" did not have the words
"Mother of God, drive Putin out!". According to Channel One, the words were
superimposed on the video clip later.

The report on the "Voskresnoye Vremya" programme on Channel One showed the clip
of the "punk prayer" in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. "We did look, and
we did not find a single word about politics in the clip," correspondent Pavel
Pchelkin said.

By freeing Samutsevich, official channel Rossiya 1 said, the court demonstrated
that the Pussy Riot case has "nothing to do with politics".

"Samutsevich, who slung so much dirt on Putin and the Church in the courtroom,
has been released," Dmitriy Kiselev said on the "Vesti Nedeli" programme on
Rossiya 1.

"It turned out that the court had little interest in the political views of
Yekaterina Samutsevich, or other members of the band for that matter," he
continued.

Not just the Pussy Riot members but also their lawyers came under attack in the
report, being accused of politicizing the case.

"There was a strong feeling that the band's lawyers had taken on the case to
gain some political dividends for themselves," according to the "Voskresnoye
Vremya" correspondent. Petr Verzilov, husband of Pussy Riot member Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, also came under criticism in the report.

Mixed reaction

As soon as she walked free Samutsevich became the object of intense media
interest. She gave numerous interviews to Russian and foreign journalists,
defending the Pussy Riot cause.

Marianna Maksimovskaya, presenter of the "Nedelya" programme on privately-owned
REN TV, took Samutsevich round the REN TV studios and introduced her to
journalists and producers. Some expressed support for Pussy Riot, while others
did not hide their disapproval.

Correspondent Roman Super, who has followed the Pussy Riot story and made
several reports for the "Nedelya" programme, told Samutsevich that he did not
approve of the Pussy Riot stunt in the church but felt sorry for the young
children of the other two Pussy Riot members who remained in jail.

Super added that he was against the jailing of Pussy Riot.

In the production office, the "Nedelya" presenter explained to Samutsevich that
REN TV producers were divided on the matter: some supported Pussy Riot
whole-heartedly, others strongly disapproved of their stunt, while others
disapproved of the stunt but were strongly against them being jailed.

Maksimovskaya described it as "the country's reaction in miniature".

Samutsevich: it was political not religious protest

In the interviews Samutsevich said she was not entirely sure why she had been
allowed to walk free. She suggested that, owing to "worldwide pressure", the
Russian authorities "are now playing some strange game", trying "to get out of
this".

Channel One said it could not be ruled out that Samutsevich may have "reached an
accommodation with the law-enforcement authorities". Samutsevich flatly denied
this, reiterating that her "defence line" had remained the same throughout the
court hearing. "We criticized the policy of the authorities and the policy of
the Russian Orthodox Church," she said.

In every interview Samutsevich stressed that the performance in the cathedral
was a political act, not a religious one, to highlight the closeness of the
relationship between the state and the Russian Orthodox Church. She also
stressed that Pussy Riot had never intended to offend believers.

Asked whether she would have taken part in the stunt had she known that she
would end up in prison, she said she would have done the same thing and added
that she was determined to continue as a member of Pussy Riot as far as it was
possible in the current circumstances.

Samutsevich described Pussy Riot as a "free art political project".

Talentless attention-seekers - state TV's verdict

Correspondent Pavel Pchelkin on state-controlled Channel One described the Pussy
Riot members as talentless and not very intelligent attention-seekers who had
tried all sorts of publicity stunts in their pursuit of "fame".

Dmitriy Kiselev on official Rossiya 1 lamented the fact that, despite the Pussy
Riot stunt being "absurd" and devoid of coherent meaning, the number of awards
presented to Pussy Riot had been growing.

"Now, for instance, they have been shortlisted for the Sakharov prize, awarded
by the European Parliament for freedom of speech. In my view, if they do get
this prize, it will be a sign of degradation of both the prize and the European
Parliament," Kiselev concluded.

Kiselev delivered a homily condemning the lack of coherent thought or purpose on
the part of Pussy Riot and the protest movement in general.

"Surely, there must be some meaning in this dancing in balaclavas? Maybe they
were striving for a more liberal society? Unlikely, since liberalism implies a
sensible moderation of freedom with some inner restraint," he said.

But the Pussy Riot stunt was "just an outrage" denying "all values".

Protest movement under renewed attack

Official Rossiya 1 ridiculed the protest movement. "When you are in the
opposition and you shout something about Putin, you can become a famous dancer
without being able to dance, a famous singer without being able to sing and a
leader without being able to organize anything," Dmitriy Kiselev said on the
"Vesti Nedeli" programme.

Meanwhile, the opposition are electing a coordination council, a process that
Kiselev mocked as chaotic and incompetent.

Elections to the new body, which seeks to bring together opponents of the
current ruling establishment from across the political spectrum, are scheduled
for 20-21 October. Internet and satellite broadcaster Dozhd TV has broadcast
debates in which candidates standing in the election took part.

Rossiya 1 ran footage from Dozhd TV to illustrate Kiselev's point. Russia needs
"meaningful opposition" but this is not it, he said.

"The street protest opposition insists on political competition but the thing is
that it is only Putin who is ready for it," according to Kiselev.

Pussy Riot performed their anti-Putin "punk prayer" in February, in the wake of
the mass anti-Kremlin protests in December and in the run-up to the presidential
election in March.

According to Channel One, Pussy Riot chose a good time. "The country was
agitated by the [December parliamentary] election: there were many protests but
few ideas, there was not a single martyr for the idea. So the organizers of the
protests, which at the time had not yet died out, quickly made use of the vivid
image of the band members and declared them to be victims of the regime,"
correspondent Pavel Pchelkin said on the "Voskresnoye Vremya" on Channel One.

Udaltsov remains in spotlight

The "Anatomy of Protest" film broadcast by Gazprom-Media-owned NTV on 5 October,
which made damaging revelations about self-styled opposition leader Sergey
Udaltsov, continued to reverberate this week.

Official Rossiya 1 carried a lengthy report portraying Udaltsov and the protest
movement in general in a negative light. It highlighted Udaltsov's conflicting
accounts of himself to the police and the media. "Udaltsov has changed his
position so often that even his comrades-in-arms in Left Front have failed to
catch up," the report said.

The report highlighted the fact that many opposition organizations and their
leaders have received financial aid from the US State Department, and accused
Georgia of trying to stage a "colour revolution" in Russia after failing in a
similar attempt in Belarus.

Sergey Zheleznyak, deputy chairman of the State Duma, said in the report that it
was time for the Russia opposition to make up their mind and decide whether they
were "with foreign states and the foreign special services or with the citizens
of Russia".

According to the "Vesti Nedeli" report, a T-shirt is hanging on the wall in the
office of US ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul which has a list of the "colour
revolutions" and their dates printed on it, including Georgia, Ukraine,
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Russia. Next to Russia it says "To be done", according
to the report, which means that Russia's enemies have not given up their
attempts to stage revolution in Russia.

"Nedelya" on privately-owned REN TV also carried a report on Udaltsov but it was
different in tone.

Correspondent Vadim Kondakov agreed that, on the one hand, the anti-Udaltsov
film was convincing and that it was "difficult not to believe it" but, on the
other, he continued, there were questions about the film's authenticity.

The film showed a meeting which had allegedly taken place between Udaltsov and
Georgian MP Givi Targamadze. The REN TV correspondent spotted two episodes in
the film which showed identical footage of the alleged meeting but had different
conversations superimposed.

At the same time, the correspondent highlighted the fact that after the film had
come out Udaltsov suddenly became rather "out of reach, like a Hollywood star"
and, when finally confronted by journalists, gave rather cryptic answers when
asked whether it had been him in the film.

One thing is certain, according to REN TV. "There is no doubt that the story
will have a resounding continuation," its correspondent said.

Second line of Nord Stream starts up

State-controlled television channels carried upbeat reports on the launch this
week of the second line of the Nord Stream gas pipeline which is to carry gas
along the bottom of the Baltic Sea to Western Europe. Privately-owned REN TV
ignored the story.

"It is an important event that enhances Russia's standing in international
competition," Dmitriy Kiselev said on "Vesti Nedeli" on official Rossiya 1. He
described the Nord Stream gas pipeline as "unique" and a "true triumph" for
Russia.

Channel One reminded viewers that the idea to build a gas pipeline to Europe
bypassing transit countries had first been raised by Vladimir Putin. According
to the report, Nord Stream ensures "total independence of gas exports for
Russia, as well as energy independence for Europe".

Rossiya 1 reminded viewers that there had been a lot of opposition in Europe to
the construction of Nord Stream. "But in early 2009 the attitude to Nord Stream
changed a lot, if not dramatically. Europe realized what it meant to be left
without gas after Ukraine blocked the export pipeline," the "Vesti Nedeli"
correspondent said.

Russia will be able to deliver gas directly to Western Europe bypassing transit
countries "which have on many occasions raised doubts about their
dependability", presenter Kirill Pozdnyakov said on "Itogovaya Programma" on
NTV.

Nord Stream improves the "Old World's energy security", he added.

"Gas will be delivered directly, by the shortest route, linking Russia's largest
gas field and Europe's market, avoiding transit risks, reliably and without
disruptions. We guarantee this," Putin said in his video address shown at the
launch ceremony. These remarks were broadcast by all three main channels -
Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV.

Official Rossiya 1 showed German Chancellor Angela Merkel praising the "solid
foundation of the energy partnership" between Russia and the European Union.

Reports said that the UK had also shown interest in the project. "The deficit of
its own gas has made not just continental Europe but also Britain show an
interest in Nord Stream. It was announced this week that one of the new branches
of the gas pipeline may reach Foggy Albion," according to Rossiya 1.

Source: Sources as listed, in English 0001 gmt 15 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Valkyries suffer first loss in history

BYLINE: Murray McCormick, Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: REGINA


Riot 15, Valkyries 7

The post-game celebration by the Regina Riot on Sunday was unlike any other in
the short history of the Western Women's Canadian Football League.

The Riot defeated the Saskatoon Valkyries 15-7 before a franchise-high 535
spectators at Mosaic Stadium. The win was the first by the Riot over the
Valkyries since the women's full-contact tackle football league opened in 2011.
It was also the first loss ever for the Valkyries, who are the two-time
defending league champions and had won 12 straight regular-season and playoff
games prior to Sunday's defeat.

"It means a lot," quarterback Aimee Kowalski said after the Riot improved its
record to 2-0 and the Valkyries fell to 1-1. "It has been three years now that
we have been going after them. Every time we've tried to get a little bit closer
to them, but now we've finally reached our goal. This makes it a lot more
interesting and more fun to play in the league because you never know who the
champion is going to be at the end of the season."

Sunday's victory was an example of the strides the Riot has taken since losing
56-6 to the host Valkyries in the first league game for both teams on May 22,
2011. The Valkyries defeated the Riot 42-2 in their next regular-season meeting
and 36-6 in the playoffs. The Riot showed signs of closing the gap in 2012.
Regina was beaten 36-6 and 35-26 by Saskatoon in the regular season and 35-21 in
the Prairie Conference final.

"Hats off to our coaches because they put a lot of time into this game and they
have really come together," Kowalski said. "They understand our weaknesses and
strengths. In the past we were coached a lot like we were boys. Now we're being
coached like we're adults."

The Riot earned the win without head coach Darren Fisher on the sidelines; he's
out of the country on business.

"We missed him and we need him back badly," said Riot quarterbacks coach Jack
Upshall. "What (the win) really means is it's another step in the progress
toward the championship. It's just one game and it's not the whole season. They
understand it and they know there will be another game against Saskatoon."

The Valkyries seemed to take their first defeat in stride.

"It's a good thing because you can always learn more from a loss than a win,"
said Saskatoon quarterback Candace Bloomquist. "It's good for any team to
experience it and it's a great opportunity for us to learn from it. It's good
that it happened early in the season and we can still make some adjustments."

The Riot relied on its ground game to grind out the win over the Valkyries.
Carmen Agar led the Riot with 17 carries for 126 rushing yards and a 28-yard
touchdown. Amanda Hungle had 15 carries for 49 yards and a one-yard touchdown
run. Saskatoon conceded a safety in the third quarter to account for the
remainder of the scoring.

Marci Kiselyk had a 19-yard touchdown reception for Saskatoon. Julie David was
leading rusher with 18 carries for 84 yards.

"I'm super pumped of how our girls responded because they have never faced
adversity in a football game before," said Valkyries head coach Jeff Yausie. "We
had a chance to win in the end, but (the Riot) made more plays than we did."

The Riot is to play the host Winnipeg Nomads on Sunday and then conclude the
regular season on May 26 in Saskatoon. Fisher is expected to return for the game
against the Nomads. Playoffs are set for June 8 and Mosaic Stadium is the site
of league final on June 15.

"As long as we win the one at the end of the season, that's the one that really
matters," Kowalski said. "(Sunday's win) gives us the little extra belief that
we can do it again and again."

mmccormick@leaderpost. com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: *** The Valkyries' player named in Monday's paper was incorrectly
identified. The player is Julene Friesen. The StarPhoenix regrets the error. ***


GRAPHIC: Michael Bell, Regina Leader-Post; Regina Riot's Robyn Tulloch tackles
Saskatoon Valkyries Jacquie Tatlow during a game held at Mosaic Stadium in
Regina on Sunday. The Riot beat the Valkyries 15-7.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              March 3, 1995 Friday

COURT NOD TO STAFF IN RIOT SHOCK

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HORAN M

LENGTH: 502 words


KEYWORD-HIT Court nod to staff in riot shock A JUDGE has strongly recommended
eight former youth workers be paid up to $20,000 each for the ""mental shock" of
last year's Westbrook Detention Centre riots. Judge Warren Howell said each of
the workers should get up to another $20,000 for the loss of their jobs when the
centre, near Toowoomba, closed last July. The ruling in Toowoomba District Court
yesterday was the first time victims of a riot had been given hope of
compensation, which normally was reserved for victims of crimes. Each youth
worker will have to petition state Attorney-General Dean Wells to receive the
payout. Westbrook was closed by the Government last July after riots caused $1.4
million damage. The eight youth workers acted as warders and support staff in
the centre. The court heard the workers had suffered post-traumatic stress
disorder after the riots, which lasted more than 10 hours. Judge Howell
criticised the Family Services Department for its conduct before, during and
after the riots, calling it a ""Gilbert and Sullivan or Pythonesque situation".
""It seems surprising that there had been other mini-riots and disturbances
before the main riots and the fears of the workers were not heeded," he said.
""If anything it went the other way to supporting the inmates, who, when they
did step out of line, were not punished but rewarded. ""It is not in the least
surprising that the youth workers were suffering some sort of post-traumatic
stress following the riots. ""Staff had no confidence in any backing from the
department at all. No amount of hyperbole could describe the seriousness of
these riots. ""It must have been a frightening experience, not just for the
inmates who wanted no part in the criminality but to the staff members who stood
by helplessly." Judge Howell said the pressure during the crisis must have been
enormous, ""with undisciplined, violent brats going over the top and showing off
to each other, many of them high on sniffing drugs and solvents". ""Why the
riots were not stopped early in the piece is a mystery to me," he said. ""The
youth workers had no training in stopping riots and when the riot squad arrived
they were not used immediately. ""The revelation as to why that was not done may
prove somewhat interesting." Former principal youth worker Layton Hemmings, 48,
who stands to receive a payout, said the incident could have been avoided if
Family Services Minister Anne Warner and her department heads had listened to
the advice of Westbrook officers. ""After Westbrook was closed, the Minister was
warned there would be exactly the same problems but she ignored the warnings and
now we have had this incident at the John Oxley Centre," he said. A spokesman
for Ms Warner said the department could not comment on the case. ""We would want
to see the judgment before we make any comment," the spokesman said. A spokesman
for Attorney-General Dean Wells said each worker should receive the full amount
recommended.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1995 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                              April 8, 2016 Friday

Property help for riot victims - DM calls strategy meeting on April 21

BYLINE: Gautam Sarkar

LENGTH: 414  words


Md. Khalid Hussain (42), a Bhagalpur riot victim of 1989, can now breathe easy.
The local administration has decided to provide help to him and others in
getting back his property which many riot victims where compelled to sell under
duress or distress after the disturbance.



Khalid, a resident of Nurpur Bazar areas on the outskirts of the city, can still
recall the black days of October 1989 when rioters destroyed his ancestral
house.

"The army somehow managed to save our lives and put us inside a makeshift camp
here," Khalid recalled. "After a few months, we shifted to Ashrafnagar locality
in Sahajangi and have been living here since. Later, my father and some 125
families had no option than to sell our property to residents there. Some of us
didn't even get proper amount from the buyers."

Earlier, the Justice NN Singh commission, a panel constituted by the state
government to probe the riots also had underlined the issue whether some
property of the riot victims were sold under duress or distress and asked the
government to take measures to return back such properties to the victims.

The Nitish Kumar government last year accepted the commission's suggestions and
directed the district administration to return property to original owners.
Bhagalpur district magistrate Adesh Titarmaray said the administration would
support those 26 riot victims here whose names were identified as sellers of the
property after the riots.

According to Titarmaray, the administration, with the consent of the 26 people,
would help them to file title suits for cancellation of sale deeds of their sold
properties.

"The court fee, lawyers' fee and other expenditure incurred in the case would be
borne by the administration. The cell looking into riot related cases would
assist victims who already represented their case before the commission and also
those who are yet to approach it," he said. He also said riot victims who
earlier sold their property and are ready to repay their buyers, can avail bank
loans at subsidised rates.

The district magistrate is scheduled to call a meeting on April 21 with the riot
victims to chart a strategy to return their properties.

Basar Ali, a riot victim who contested Bhagalpur Assembly seat on a CPI (ML)
ticket in 2015, however, blamed the government for ignoring riot victims. "I was
also a riot victim and many of us from Parvatti locality were compelled to sell
our property. But our names are not included in the list of the 26 people," he
alleged.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Public vents over pace of probe;
Province bombarded with e-mails critically comparing investigation with that of
Britain following that country's August unrest

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; VANCOUVER RIOTS; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 313 words


A sampling of e-mails the province of B.C. received regarding the pace of the
Vancouver riot investigation in comparison to the riot investigation in Britain:

"It has been about 2 months since the hockey riot in Vancouver. It has been
about 2 DAYS since the UK riots. In the UK they have already arrested people,
put them before the courts and sentenced some. What is the justice system here
in BC doing besides naval gazing?"

"After seeing how London deals with their rioters it is extremely frustrating to
see how we deal with our rioters. Are charges ever going to be laid against
these people, and if so when? I truly hope that we will just not just forget
this act."

"Vancouver City and Police have completely put the blame on rioters, while
taking no accountability for their poor planning, lack of officers on the roads,
and delay in response to the riots and the aftermath. WE NEED ACTION!"

"I must tell you that I am annoyed and embarrassed that there have been so few
prosecutions of the participants in the Vancouver Stanley Cup Riots. ... It
would be shameful if unnecessary delays caused miscreants to avoid being held
accountable for their actions."

"I am writing to express my displeasure regarding the slow progress of the
courts in prosecuting the individuals responsible for the Vancouver Riots.
Recent news stories about the trouble in London, England have brought to light
the fact that there have been no charges laid and no court appearances in the
matter of the [Vancouver] riots. Despite having a multitude of evidence and even
some individuals that have turned themselves into police there are still no
charges."

"Premier Clark clearly stated that those people involved would be apprehended
quickly. What kind of a message are we sending to the taxpayers of BC, and to
the world media?"

"The contrast with London, England's recent riots is shocking."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Presidential library seeks riot artifacts

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 520 words


Have an artifact from the 1908 Springfield race riot?

If so, researchers from the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library would like you
to call them.

A free, two-floor exhibit of the riot, to open at the library June 6, will
re-examine the August 1908 event that left seven dead, hundreds injured and
dozens of mostly black businesses and homes destroyed.

The riot, which took place several months before Springfield celebrated
Lincoln's 100th birthday in 1909, drew nationwide scorn on the city and led to
formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Many events planned this year will commemorate the riot's 100th anniversary.

Library researcher Noreen O'Brien-Davis said she and others have gathered a lot
of information about the riot, but haven't been able to locate many artifacts to
display.

Specific items of interest, O'Brien-Davis said, include riot "souvenirs" such as
linens and silverware taken during widespread looting and photographs of black
residents, riot victims and black cultural life at the turn of the century.

"We don't really have any photographs of black family life of that time period,"
O'Brien-Davis said.

She said library researchers have contacted descendents of Charles Werner, the
county sheriff during the riot, and are borrowing law-enforcement artifacts from
the family. Werner oversaw the county jail where rioters began protesting after
learning that two black inmates they were intending to lynch had been secreted
out the back door to safety.

The rioters soon discovered white Springfield restaurant owner Henry Loper had
loaned his car to Werner, who used it to transport the prisoners to a train
headed for Bloomington. The rioters first acts were to torch Loper's car and
destroy his downtown restaurant. Two days of rioting followed.

O'Brien-Davis said she'd be particularly interested in any artifacts from
Loper's restaurant.

She said the library also has been able to piece together some state militia
items. Militiamen, arriving from more than 20 Illinois communities from Chicago
to Mount Vernon, came to restore law and order in Springfield. O'Brien-Davis is
hoping she can locate some artifacts the soldiers may have brought home with
them.

George Richardson, one of the inmates whose escape from getting lynched sparked
the riot, had been jailed for allegedly raping a white woman. The woman
eventually confessed that, in an attempt to conceal an affair, she had made up
the story about the assault.

It took several decades for the city to place commemorative markers telling the
riot story. Library researchers suspect a lot of history had been buried by
then, some intentionally.

"I'm sure there are families in Springfield with relatives from 1908 to 2008,"
O'Brien-Davis said. "Maybe it's still painful for some. How do you ask for
something that may have been looted?"

Who to call about artifacts

Anyone with a tip about a possible artifact from the 1908 race riot can reach
Noreen O'Brien-Davis at 558-8953 or obrien-davis@Illinois.gov

For more information about the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/news/raceriot.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2008



CORRECTION: Anyone with a tip about a possible artifact from the 1908 race riot
can reach Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum researcher Noreen
O'Brien-Davis at 558-8953 or noreen.obriendavis@illinois.gov An article in
Thursday's State Journal-Register included the wrong e-mail address, obtained
from the library and museum's Web site.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

New police units to help deal with riots, protests

BYLINE: MOHAMMAD ASGHAR

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 12

LENGTH: 451  words


Riot police units, which are specialised units equipped with modern techniques
of riot control, are being formed in the four districts of the Rawalpindi
division to effectively control riots, demonstrations and protests.

The need to form the units was felt after it was observed that district police
chiefs were unable to respond to particular situations efficiently because of a
lack of qualified officers to do so.

Therefore, the additional inspector general of police, Rawalpindi region,
decided to establish well-trained Riot Police Units in all the four districts
that will be on a standby to respond to particular situations and help the
regular police force as well.

Regional Police Officer (RPO) Mohammad Wisal Fakhar Sultan Raja has sent letters
to the district police chiefs of Rawalpindi, Attock, Jhelum and Chakwal to
prepare lists of suitable candidates from the existing police force for the riot
units within three days.

The selected officers will first receive two weeks' training at the Police
College Sihala.

Well-trained riot police units will be deployed to confront crowds, protests and
riots. The units will be equipped with proper anti-riot gear and will be
stationed at police lines at all times to deal with law and order situations,
RPO Raja said.

He directed concerned officials to make sure that the selected officers were in
good shape and do not have any long-term illnesses. The upper age limit of a
candidate for an upper subordinate in the new units is set at 45 years and for a
constable not more than 40 years.

From Rawalpindi, 95 police personnel, including five sub-inspectors and
assistant sib-inspectors, 10 head constables and 80 constables will be selected
to join the new unit. While from Jhelum, two upper subordinates, three head
constables and 45 constables will be selected for the riot unites. Also, four
upper subordinates, six head constables and 50 constables will be selected from
Attock police and two upper subordinates, three head constables and 45
constables will be selected for the riot police unit from Chakwal.

The Riot Police Units will be tasked with controlling riots, dispersing crowds,
maintaining order and protecting lives and property.

On many occasions, the police have had a hard time taming violent protests in
Rawalpindi. In November last year, violence grew in Jhelum over the 'desecration
of the holy Quran' and the army and Rangers had to be called in to control the
situation. Army officers had to be deployed to control the protesters who also
set fire to a factory.

Police officials were also beaten by supporters of the Pakistan Awami Tehreek
when the chairman of the party, Dr Tahirul Qadri, landed at Benzir International
Airport in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 Delhi Edition

Police on high alert to fight communal flare-up

BYLINE: Nitisha.Kashyap@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 417 words


Delhi Police officials are on their toes and have put sensitive areas on high
alert to avoid any fallout of the Faridabad riots. Learning from past mistakes
of not being able to handle communal tension, cops are now better prepared to
avoid incidents like Trilokpuri or Bawana.

A 'Communal Riot Scheme' has been prepared to handle riot-like situations.The
plan highlights sensitive and communal areas, number of pickets deployed and
anti-riot equipment in police stations, among other things.

"Monday's communal violence in Faridabad took place for around an hour. However,
with Shab-e-barat approaching, border areas and sensitive places have been put
on high alert and cops briefed accordingly ," a senior police officer said.
Delhi Police said they will extend help to Faridabad police, if needed.

The Communal Riot Scheme is divided into three stages -prevention, operational
and post-riot. The first stage involves handling the situation at the micro
level, including arranging meetings with peace committees, RWAs, mohalla
committees and community liaison groups. Cops in plainclothes

would be deployed at various places to keep a watch on rumours or exaggerated
versions of real incidents. Apart from increased foot and mobile patrolling, new
pickets would be set up in riot-prone areas.

The operational stage would be put into operation when communal violence has
flared up. This involves setting up of a special control room and mobile
communication unit near the riot spot.Senior police officers would take stock of
the situation and send forces to trouble spots. An ACP rank officer and an
inspector would rush to the spot with anti-riot equipment to control law &
order, manage the crowd and help in rescue operations.

"This stage would also include arresting rumour mon

gers and criminals who try to exploit the situation. Cops will be deployed to
keep surveillance over kerosene, petrol and chemical storage depots so that
bombs aren't made. Drones with cameras would be used to identify rooftops with
bricks and stones.All police stations will keep a reserve force ready with riot
gear, arms and ammunition," said a senior police officer.

In the final post-riot stage, the focus would be on cleaning up of the area,
removal of the dead and maintaining peace. Peace committees would be formed and
inter-religious activities would be held, like Hindus volunteering in a Muslim
festival and vice versa. Supply of essential commodities, such as milk,
vegetables and medical van, would be made available.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                             March 14, 2016 Monday

UP riot report confuses, leads to anger

LENGTH: 612  words


LUCKNOW, March 12 -- The Justice Vishnu Sahay Commission report that probed the
Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has put the ruling Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh
in the proverbial Catch-22 situation.

The 700-page report, wrapped in ambiguity and contradictions, may have given the
UP government a clean chit, but it has also cast - albeit, unwittingly -
aspersions on the Samajwadi Party.

The Sahay report gives a clean chit to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the
issue of riots. Ever since the riots took place in September 2013, Samajwadi
Party leaders have been accusing the BJP of engineering the riots.

The Sahay report blows to smithereens the claims, leaving the SP with almost no
ammunition against the BJP for next year's Assembly elections.

"The Vishnu Sahay Commission report has put us in the dock because we can no
longer blame the BJP for the Muzaffarnagar riots. We cannot even rubbish the
report because the commission was set up by us. Besides, by blaming no one in
particular, especially the political parties, the commission has betrayed us. It
has taken the steam out of our campaign for 2017," complained a senior Samajwadi
Party minister.

However, the report has also been rejected by the BJP, which is now demanding a
CBI inquiry into the riots. The BSP too has termed the report as "eyewash".

"We always maintained that it was the SP, which was responsible for the riots
and the report is a desperate bid to save the ruling party. We have been falsely
implicated in the riots and we now demand a CBI probe to unravel the truth,"
said BJP MLA Sangeet Som, who is accused of uploading a fake video that
triggered the riots.

The clean chit to the BJP leaders has angered Muslims in western UP.

Asghar Hussain, a riot victim in Shamli district, says, "We suffered the
maximum: lost out kin, our home, our land. We have been living as refugees since
2013 and now the government wants us to believe that no one is responsible for
the riots. This was the worst cut that we have got from the Samajwadi Party."

The Sahay Commission has found only two persons guilty for the riots, the then
SSP Subhash Chandra Dubey and a local intelligence inspector, Prabal Pratap
Singh.

The commission, while alleging laxity on the part of the local administration,
also underlines the fact that the Uttar Pradesh government is not to be blamed
for what happened in Muzaffarnagar in 2013, but also adds that the transfer of
officials during the riots led to the worsening of the situation. If the state
government did not take this decision, then who did?

The report also said that as far as the Maha Panchayat of 30August 2013 is
concerned, a case against BSP politicians Qadir Rana, Noor Salim Rana, Rashid
Siddiqui, Ehsan Qureshi and others has been already registered and hence no
further action could be taken.

The report, intriguingly, said that no one could be directly held responsible
for the hate speeches and it was an intelligence failure that could not estimate
the expected crowd turnover.

"It is clear that the commission is completely confused in the report. It admits
certain things but says that no one can be blamed. The riots happened but it is
just one officer and an inspector who are being made the scapegoats. The
repeated assertion is on a clean chit to the government," said a retired judge
who did not wish to be named.

The UP IPS Association has decided to take up the issue and seek a review of the
departmental inquiry against their colleague, SSP Dubey.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Govt of the day treated victims with 'insensibility', says probe panel

SECTION: PATNA

LENGTH: 710 words


Patna: The Justice (retd) N N Singh Inquiry Commission that probed the Bhagalpur
riots of 1989, has called the violence a "national shame" and said the riots
were "barbaric" in nature. The panel report, tabled in the Bihar legislature on
Friday, has also exhorted the two communities not to get "swayed away by the
provocation of the fanatics". It says the onus of maintaining peace despite
provocations lies on the majority community.

The report's concluding paragraph says, "I must suggest that both Hindus and
Muslims of Bhagalpur particularly should rise to the occasion to respect
religion, faith, belief and rituals of the other, forgetting the ugly past, and
they should not be swayed away by the provocation of the fanatics, and should
maintain communal peace, which alone would help this country to develop.
Religious tolerance is essential for all of us, irrespective of diverse
faiths..."

It added, "It cannot be denied that whoever lighted the spark, the minority
community invariably suffered and though the provocateurs might have escaped,
the wrath always fell on innocent, poor and daily-wage earners." It has also
pointed to the "insensibility" with which the riot victims were "treated by
those who were in power".

Although the Lalu Prasad government formed in 1990 had constituted a commission
to probe the riots, the Nitish Kumar government set up the new commission headed
by Justice Singh in 2006 with a separate set of terms of reference. It submitted
its interim report in 2007, recommending rehabilitation measures for the riot
victims on the pattern of anti-Sikh riots, and also opened 28 of the 583 police
cases in which final (closure) reports were submitted.

The riots in Bhagalpur town started on October 24 in 1989 when countrywide
preparations were on for a proposed 'shila pujan' at Ayodhya. The violence soon
spread to rural areas of Bhagalpur and Banka districts, and could be controlled
only by October 27 after the Army was called in and three-day curfew imposed. It
claimed over 1,000 lives of Hindus and Muslims, and was marked by arson,
demolition of mosques

times news network

BHAGALPUR RIOTS OF '89

Patna: The Justice (retd) N N Singh Inquiry Commission that probed the Bhagalpur
riots of 1989, has called the violence a "national shame" and said the riots
were "barbaric" in nature. The panel report, tabled in the Bihar legislature on
Friday, has also exhorted the two communities not to get "swayed away by the
provocation of the fanatics". It says the onus of maintaining peace despite
provocations lies on the majority community.

The report's concluding paragraph says, "I must suggest that both Hindus and
Muslims of Bhagalpur particularly should rise to the occasion to respect
religion, faith, belief and rituals of the other, forgetting the ugly past, and
they should not be swayed away by the provocation of the fanatics, and should
maintain communal peace, which alone would help this country to develop.
Religious tolerance is essential for all of us, irrespective of diverse
faiths..."

It added, "It cannot be denied that whoever lighted the spark, the minority
community invariably suffered and though the provocateurs might have escaped,
the wrath always fell on innocent, poor and daily-wage earners." It has also
pointed to the "insensibility" with which the riot victims were "treated by
those who were in power".

Although the Lalu Prasad government formed in 1990 had constituted a commission
to probe the riots, the Nitish Kumar government set up the new commission headed
by Justice Singh in 2006 with a separate set of terms of reference. It submitted
its interim report in 2007, recommending rehabilitation measures for the riot
victims on the pattern of anti-Sikh riots, and also opened 28 of the 583 police
cases in which final (closure) reports were submitted.

The riots in Bhagalpur town started on October 24 in 1989 when countrywide
preparations were on for a proposed 'shila pujan' at Ayodhya. The violence soon
spread to rural areas of Bhagalpur and Banka districts, and could be controlled
only by October 27 after the Army was called in and three-day curfew imposed. It
claimed over 1,000 lives of Hindus and Muslims, and was marked by arson,
demolition of mosques

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Advocate Phoolka explains the "differences" between 1984 and 2002 riots to Rahul
Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 609 words


JALANDHAR: After Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi's comments that there were
differences between 1984 anti-Sikh riots and 2002 Gujarat riots and refrained
from tendering an apology for the '84 riots, senior Supreme Court advocate H S
Phoolka who has been spearheading the legal battle to get justice for the
victims has said that Rahul was right to the extent that there is a difference
in the Gujarat riots and the 1984 riots but his reasons are all wrong.

"The actual difference is that in case of the Gujarat riots all those cases
which were closed by the Police were reopened and reinvestigated by the SIT. The
Congress fully supported the formation of this SIT. In a shameful display of
double standards, when it comes to the 1984 riot cases, again most of the cases
were closed by the Police itself but the Congress is not supporting the demand
of formation of SIT," pointed out Phoolka who also co-authored a book titled-
"When A Tree Shook Daily," coined after Rajiv Gandhi's famous quote after his
mother Indira Gandhi's assassination.

According to the Nanavati Commission Report which was submitted in 2005, a total
of 587 FIRs were registered in Delhi and out of these 241 were closed by the
Police as untraced and were never even sent to Court for trial. "It is thus
absolutely imperative to form an SIT to reopen and reinvestigate these cases but
unfortunately the Congress is not interested in formation of an SIT.

There are other glaring differences as well. In the Gujarat riots, 131 persons
have been awarded life imprisonment, 10 have been awarded the death sentence and
one minister has been sentenced to 28 years imprisonment. In stark contrast, in
the riots of 1984, hardly anyone has been punished.

"As far as the involvement of the Government is concerned, Rahul Gandhi should
only see the report of Mishra Commission, a commission appointed by the Congress
government only," Phoolka said while quoting from the Mishra Commission's report
which read- "If the Army had been called in the morning of November 1, 1984-and
by then about 5,000 Army people were at Delhi- the position would certainly not
have been as bad as it turned out to be. 5,000 Army jawans divided into columns
and moving into the streets properly armed would not have brought about the
death of at least 2,000 people."

Those political leaders who openly led the mob were rewarded and given high
positions. Instead of sending them to jail they were given position of power and
made ministers. This sent a wrong signal and started a dangerous precedent that
murders of hundred and thousands of innocents would not be punished, and would
rather be rewarded.

If the guilty of 1984 riots had been punished, we wouldn't have seen the riots
of Mumbai in 1993 or the riot of Gujarat in 2002 and it was the active
connivance of the Congress government in 1984 and its massive cover up for all
these decades thereafter, that has prevented justice from being done for the
victims of 1984, he said adding, Rahul Gandhi's statement was like salt on the
wounds of the victims of 1984.

"During the 1984 riots, throughout Delhi, Sikhs had been disarmed by the Police
and they were arrested from their houses, if they defended themselves and their
children. Even the "Right To Defend" of its citizens had been brutally stripped
off, let alone protect them. Wherever any Sikh tried to himself and his
children, the Police reached in large numbers and arrested that Sikh from his
house, but didn't even touch anyone in the mob," Phoolka said. "If this is not
government's connivance, then we ask Gandhi, what is it?" asked the Supreme
Court advocate.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Delhi cops on high alert to combat communal flare-up

BYLINE: Nitisha Kashyap

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 426 words


NEW DELHI: Delhi Police officials are on their toes and have put sensitive areas
on high alert to avoid any fallout of the Faridabad riots. Learning from past
mistakes of not being able to handle communal tension, cops are now better
prepared to avoid incidents like Trilokpuri or Bawana.

A 'Communal Riot Scheme' has been prepared to handle riot-like situations. The
plan highlights sensitive and communal areas, number of pickets deployed and
anti-riot equipment in police stations, among other things.

"Monday's communal violence in Faridabad took place for around an hour. However,
with Shab-e-barat approaching, border areas and sensitive places have been put
on high alert and cops briefed accordingly," a senior police officer said. Delhi
Police said they will extend help to Faridabad police, if needed.

The Communal Riot Scheme is divided into three stages - prevention, operational
and post-riot. The first stage involves handling the situation at the micro
level, including arranging meetings with peace committees, RWAs, mohalla
committees and community liaison groups. Cops in plainclothes would be deployed
at various places to keep a watch on rumours or exaggerated versions of real
incidents. Apart from increased foot and mobile patrolling, new pickets would be
set up in riot-prone areas.

The operational stage would be put into operation when communal violence has
flared up. This involves setting up of a special control room and mobile
communication unit near the riot spot. Senior police officers would take stock
of the situation and send forces to trouble spots. An ACP rank officer and an
inspector would rush to the spot with anti-riot equipment to control law &
order, manage the crowd and help in rescue operations.

"This stage would also include arresting rumour mongers and criminals who try to
exploit the situation. Cops will be deployed to keep surveillance over kerosene,
petrol and chemical storage depots so that bombs aren't made. Drones with
cameras would be used to identify rooftops with bricks and stones. All police
stations will keep a reserve force ready with riot gear, arms and ammunition,"
said a senior police officer.

In the final post-riot stage, the focus would be on cleaning up of the area,
removal of the dead and maintaining peace. Peace committees would be formed and
inter-religious activities would be held, like Hindus volunteering in a Muslim
festival and vice versa. Supply of essential commodities, such as milk,
vegetables and medical van, would be made available.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

Rumblings online turned into violence;
David Clensy looks at how the riots unfolded in a very 21st century way - on
Twitter

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 695 words


I N this multimedia age, the word on the street is generally a Tweet. From the
sinister rumblings of the underworld keen on anarchistic violence, to the fear
and disgust of the vast majority of Bristolians - the virtual world of Twitter
became the flashpoint for real world rioting on our streets last night.

By yesterday evening, some individuals in the city were clearly spoiling for a
copycat riot  of the civil unrest across London.

By 10pm one man was writing: "if its in bristol I'll be there bro!"

Half an hour earlier the same individual had written on his Twitter blog, "know
this! I hope the whole country riot! I need a new laptop"

Other disturbing comments appearing on the social network site around the same
time included: "Finally the people's chance to get their own backs on police
that've let them down and shop keepers who overcharged them #londonriots"

And one young Bristol girl wrote: "lol! Obvs Bristol is very gangsta too :p
gotta get hyped ... its like being famous lol"

By 9pm, peaceful Twitter users across the city were beginning to voice serious
concerns.

Bristol woman Kerry Masey wrote: "hoping to god the riots dont start in Bristol,
alot of people tweeting they will. scary stuff stay safe everyone!!!"

Moments later Alix Tucker tweeted: "Spreading across the whole country.... On
Facebook talk of riots in Cabot Circus Bristol. This is mental. Ruining peoples
lives!"

Shortly before 9.30pm, Twitter user Charley Pearce wrote: "Heard people on
Facebook planning riots in Bristol tonight. Sickening."

But as 10pm struck, many were still not taking the threats seriously.

One man wrote: "I'm not worried about the riots coming near me, bristol had
riots a few months ago, it doesnt scare me, I'm worried about people in london!"

Somebody else wrote: "if the riots spread to bristol, they better not burn the
gorillas."

As the night progressed there was a growing sense that rioting on 24 hour news
channels was being seen as a form of "entertainment".

One Bristol woman wrote: "Great riots in Birmingham too. Well Bristol will soon
follow. It always does."

By 10.30pm, Abby-Louise Carter was writing: "I'm hearing Cabot and Easton riots
?? #bristol. God I hope not!" While a Twitter user known simply as James, wrote:
"Bristol is having a go now too, apparently #riots"

Bristol schoolgirl Sophie, wrote: "It was for a reason at first, but now it's
mainly opportunists. I'm a tad concerned it might spread to Bristol...#riots"

A Bristolian called Harriet wrote: "Apparently the riots have reached Bristol.
If I weren't atheist I'd be praying with all I've got that it's not true." Elly
Coles added: "Hate when bristol riots, we rioted 2 months ago about a tesco
opening! now we joinin in with this!"

Another rumoured: "Apparently London riots spread to Bristol. Cabot circus is on
fire & they robbed Maccy D's? #fattyneeds"

By 11pm the rumours seemed more definite: "riots broke out in easton, bristol?
not surprised, they always try to keep up with the 'trends'-.- eghh i hate where
i live." At midnight a Twitter account attributed to "The Student Revolt" wrote:
"Riot police gearing up in Bristol, seen a few flashing lights but no definite
signs of #riots yet. #bristolriots"

Moments later another user wrote" "bristol city centre being hit now! "

At 1am, one Twitter user seemed to be revelling in the words: "Hearing riots in
Bristol Cabot circus #bristolriots"

By 2am, a person on the streets of Bristol wrote: "Group of men hitting a 12
year old boy with a balaclava claimed he tried to start riots. #bristol"

At 3am James Cridland wrote: "Nastiness in #stokescroft in Bristol, but only
bins burnt. Don't want to list "lots of police" or I'd be listing every small
crime. #riots"

But at the same time Harriet Tolputt tweeted: "Police say situation in Bristol
volatile. Cars and buildings damaged. Roads closed #riots"

As dawn rose, the chorus of Bristolian Tweeters were lamenting the anarchy of
the previous night.

At 7am Heidi Simpson wrote: "Sadly we wake to the news that our city, Bristol,
participated in this madness. #riots"

Nicola Clarke wrote: "Waking up to hear there were riots in Bristol last night
too. So, so sad. These idiots are destroying lives."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2011 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

Congress has apologized for 1984 riots, Modi has not for 2002: Singhvi

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 389 words


NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday said apology from the party leadership for 1984
riots set it apart from Narendra Modi who is accused of orchestrating the 2002
anti-Muslim carnage, slamming the comparison between the two parties as well as
the pogroms as "odious".

AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress
chief Sonia Gandhi had apologized for the anti-Sikh riots more than once and
that too 10 years ago. He said the Gujarat riots were different because apart
from apology, the process of reconciliation over the 12 years as well as
transfer of riot cases out of Gujarat showed that the state government was
suspect.

"There was en masse transfer of cases from Gujarat, done for the first time in
the country. That was a vote of no-confidence (in the state) else why would the
Supreme Court transfer cases," Singhvi said, adding "This was done to ensure an
impartial outcome which, it was felt, could not be had in the Modi-led Gujarat."

The Congress spokesman faced persistent questions on the issue after Rahul
Gandhi's interview to Times Now in which he dealt with the two riots.

The spokesman said terrible events like riots could not be compared because they
were all unpardonable but Congress could not be blamed for the Sikh riots like
Modi is for Gujarat riots.

Singhvi reminded that PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had reminded Modi of his "raj
dharma" during the riots, asking what was the reason for the public reprimand.

He said the 1984 riots started just after the assassination of Indira Gandhi
while in Gujarat, it was orchestrated over three days after the burning of a
train carrying kar sevaks with dead bodies handed over to organizations like
Vishwa Hindu Parishad to stoke emotions.

Praising Rahul for his interview to Times Now, Singhvi said, "Gandhi has not
only spoken and interacted. He willingly subjected himself to a no-holds barred
80-minute in-depth cross-examination and he has done it with humility." Singhvi
pointed to Rahul's emphasis on transparency as the standpoint of the interview.

In what appeared a dig at Modi, Singhvi said, "He (Rahul) is quite unlike a
number of persons in our political system who aspire for big office but are
habituated to speaking with a forked tongue, who are self-centred and have
illusions of infallibility."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 20, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

NCM seeks report on Muzaffarnagar riots

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 459  words


Muzaffarnagar, Sept 19 (IBNS) A team from the National Commission for Minorities
(NCM) on Thursday arrived at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh where communal riots
claimed at least 48 lives recently.

The team, headed by NCM chairperson Wajahat Habibullah, sought a report from the
Akhilesh Yadav government on the riots and subsequent actions takne by it.

Talking to reporters, Wajahat said, "If such an incident happens it is obviously
a failure of the administration and as a result that of the state and Centre."

"Such things do not happen only in Uttar Pradesh. We have had recent communal
clashes in Indore, Rajasthan and Mumbai," he said.

Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said state
minister Azam Khan did not play any role in the riots.

"Azam Khan had no role to play in Muzaffarnagar riots. He did not call any
police officer and asked them to go slow on rioters," Yadav told media.

"It is the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) who fuelled Muzaffarnagar violence," he
said.

Khan on Wednesday said he hs nothing to with  Muzaffarnagar riots.

"I have nothing to do with Muzaffarnagar riots. I am not involved," said the
senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader.

Khan on Monday slammed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and top brass of Congress
party for touring riot-hit Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.

"Manmohan Singh has gone to Muzaffarnagar... it is good... elections are near so
he should do this," Khan told reporters here.

He said if the PM is so concerned about communal riots, then he should have also
visited other areas like Faizabad, Mathura and Bareilly, where riots have taken
place in the past.

He also defended the state government over the handling of the situation and
said it has followed law so far, which helped in stopping the riots.

"We have followed the law so far and will continue doing so. It is the law that
has stopped the violence in Muzaffarnagar."

Khan alleged that the riots in Muzaffarnagar were triggered by fascist forces
which operate under the cover of secularism.

"Fascists in the country were bothered by the fact that the Samajwadi Party is
peacefully in power in UP," Khan told reporters.

"Whatever happened there was bad and we condemn it. WE will take strict action
against the perpetrators," he said.

Khan reportedly skipped a crucial national executive party meeting in Agra last
week and his absence was speculated as a registration of protest over the
Muzaffarnagar riots that have killed at least 44 people.

NDTV citing sources even reported that Khan had told supporters that he blames
the state government for failing to prevent the riots despite myriad warning
signs.

However, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav had denied all reports of rifts within
the party and said Khan could never be upset with him.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 30, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riots, spending cuts and the brief tonic of a royal wedding. 2011? No, it was
1981;
30 years ago

BYLINE: Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 882 words


An unpopular Government is trying to push through radical spending cuts. At a
time when the only good news is the royal wedding, riots are breaking out on
Britain's streets. Desperate to bring things under control, the Government
considers bringing back the Riot Act ...

2011? No, this is 1981. But the problems faced by David Cameron's coalition are
remarkably similar to those confronting the Thatcher Government halfway through
its first term - even if Mr Cameron has so far resisted bringing back one of the
18th century's more contentious pieces of legislation to crack down on civil
disturbance.

The Thatcher Government's deliberations over the Riot Act are disclosed in
secret Whitehall memos made public today. The Metropolitan Police Commissioner,
Sir David McNee, put the case for the Riot Act to Mrs Thatcher when she paid a
midnight visit to Scotland Yard and Brixton police station after the Toxteth
riots in July. He argued that the best way to keep control was by introducing
the power to arrest anyone who was on the streets after a state of riot had been
declared by a magistrate. The Riot Act, introduced in 1714, fell into abeyance
in the 20th century and was repealed in 1967.

"Warning of a state of riot could be announced by loud hailer, and arrangements
could be made to ensure that a magistrate was always on call," said the minutes
of the visit, which ran on past 3am. "At present it was extremely difficult to
make arrests, given the speed with which the rioters dispersed."

Sir David was concerned about the royal wedding that month, and the safety of
dignitaries watching the firework display in Hyde Park.

At a Cabinet meeting it was argued that reintroduction of the Riot Act would
have the advantage that any reporter or photographer who remained on the streets
would be guilty of an offence. "Difficulties of identification might be
diminished if the wearing of masks were of itself to be made a criminal
offence," the minutes added.

William Whitelaw, the Home Secretary, was doubtful about a new Riot Act,
however. "Its practical value might be limited, and it would certainly give rise
to some difficulties of enforcement," he wrote in a memo to the Prime Minister.
The idea was swiftly killed off.

Whereas MPs this month rejected the use of water cannon or rubber bullets as a
means to control riots, in 1981 they were taken seriously. John Nott, the
Defence Secretary, said that he could not spare many baton rounds because so
many had been fired in Northern Ireland in the preceding weeks. He expressed
reservations about issuing "army weapons".

Mrs Thatcher believed police should have all the equipment they needed and army
camps to hold offenders. The only thing she would not contemplate was putting
troops on mainland streets.

Dealing with the riots was one thing: working out why they had happened was
another. This year the BlackBerry messaging system was seen as a key factor in
the spread of riots: in 1981 television was seen as the villain.The Home
Secretary was told to get the broadcasters to "pay greater attention to the
possible effects of the way in which they collected and broadcast news items
about violent incidents".

If this year's riots took the Government by surprise, 30 years ago they saw it
coming. Riots in Bristol the previous year were a first sign. But Mrs Thatcher
struggled to understand the level of disaffection.

After she met community leaders in Liverpool one of her aides noted that "she
had been amazed at their hatred for the police".

According to the minutes of a meeting that day with Liverpool church leaders,
Mrs Thatcher said many of the problems of the inner cities had been identified
15 years before. "We had thought then that if people were given good homes and
good schooling, this would give them the basis they needed for a satisfactory
life. But it seemed that this approach had not been wholly right. We should have
to think again."

Leaking 'Wets' defied Iron Lady

Cabinet government under Margaret Thatcher, the image: the Iron Lady overcomes
all opposition as she pushes through her radical policies. No one has the guts
to oppose her.

Cabinet government under Margaret Thatcher, the reality: members of the
Government are at each other's throats. The dissenters leak everything. When Mrs
Thatcher upbraids them for leaking, they leak that, too. The extent of the
rancour and the Prime Minister's frustration are laid bare in the Cabinet
minutes  of 1981. While she was trying to push through savage spending cuts, the
"wets" were doing everything in their power to stop her.

One argued that the plans of Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Chancellor, "did not offer a
sufficiently imaginative and practicable response to the acute social and
political problems confronting the Government". Merseyside, he was told, was "a
community visibly falling apart ... the tolerance of society was now stretched
near to its limit".

At a key meeting on the economy, it was agreed nothing should be said to the
press. The next day, a full report of the meeting was in The Times.

Mrs Thatcher was furious but Robert Armstrong, the Cabinet Secretary, said that
there was little point in a leak investigation: it would not be conclusive and
its existence would inevitably leak. Valentine Low

"Of course these days we can read the riot act on Kindle"

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher had a busy year, with riots in Toxteth, left, and problems
with No 10 expenses. The wedding of the Prince of Wales and Lady Diana Spencer
offered a brief respite from Cabinet business, as did Trident- she ordered the
missile without telling her colleagues. The problem of President Mitterrand's
derriÈre, below, was dealt with by civil servants
GETTY IMAGES; PA; REUTERS; THE TIMES ARCHIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Farmington Daily Times (New Mexico)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday

Farmington Riot Squad needs to settle down

BYLINE: Staff Writer

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 358 words


Editor:

We geared up to watch a great game of football on Friday, Oct. 24, between
Farmington Scorps and Piedra Vista Panthers. All was going good between the
teams and it was an exciting game to attend, until about halftime. The FHS Riot
Squad members decided to go to the Piedra Vista stands to harass the fans. PV
was the away team this game.

Several kids from the Riot Squad walked over to the PV side on the track yelling
at the fans, "This is our house!" "This is our school!" Several parents got out
of the stands and asked the kids to go back to their seats and not to cause
problems.

It was then when the whole FHS Riot squad decided to join the few that started
the uproar. Two of the boys decided to break through the makeshift barrier of
parents and proceeded to tear down the signs that the PV cheerleaders posted on
the fence. The whole time this is happening, the Riot Squad was booing the PV
fans.

The police did come over and tell them to leave and they did. I was under the
impression that the Riot Squad was to boost the spirits of their fans and help
the cheerleaders cheer. I did not realize that a Riot Squad was to try to cause
a real riot with the away team.

This is not the first problem we have had with the FHS Riot Squad. During FHS
Homecoming there were several PV football players attending the game, and the PV
players were booed by the riot squad, had popcorn and other things thrown at
them and were told some things that cannot be written here. The FHS Riot Squad
should be eliminated if they choose to represent their school in that manner.

We as a community were told that the sharing of this stadium was beneficial. And
in past years it has been fine. We have supported the same-town teams in
district games. I am a graduate of FHS and have no problem supporting both
teams. I cannot understand why the mood has intensified for a full blown
rivalry.

I hope there is action taken against students that decided to show such poor
sportsmanship in our two-schools, one-stadium city. If this intensifies, we need
to consider building a more central stadium for all sporting activities in
Farmington.

HELEN TRUJILLO

Farmington

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 Farmington Daily Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Good Samaritan seeking justice; 'I threw caution aside,' says Robert Mackay of
Stanley Cup riot beating

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 344  words


Six suspects have been identified and their faces are now on a police website in
the cowardly assault of Good Samaritan Robert Mackay during the Stanley Cup riot
.

Mackay of Vancouver, who tried to fend off people smashing the windows along the
600-block Granville Street at about 8: 30 p.m. on June 15, talked to the media
Tuesday about the swarming that happened during the infamous night.

Mackay said he's not sure why he tried to fend off looters smashing the large
windows at The Bay, but he does recall the mob turning on him - and he wants
justice.

"I threw caution aside and let my emotions go," Mackay said of his bid to stop
the damage.

He suffered cuts and bruises from the mob that kicked and punched him and doused
him with pepper spray, but he has since recovered.

Now, he wants those who beat him charged.

"I think all the rioters need to be held accountable," he said. "Just admit your
crime. Admit what you did and deal with it."

Integrated Riot Investigation Team Insp. Les Yeo said police have charged three
suspects in the "appalling" attack on Mackay and are looking for another six.
The riot squad released a video showing the other suspects they are seeking.

The riot squad also released a new set of 250 photos and launched a new website
to catch those behind the riot.

"Today is the day 250 more rioters have dreaded," said Yeo.

The riot squad now has 350 images of suspects up on the new website and Yeo said
police would like the public to go to the website "and hold these rioters
accountable."

Yeo said Mackay showed a lot of courage when he tried to get the looters to stop
smashing the storefront windows. "There were a lot of attackers on this Good
Samaritan," he said. "We need your help for this cowardly and gutless attack."

The Crown has approved 116 criminal charges against 43 suspected rioters. Of
those, 20 are young offenders and can't be named.

Anyone with information about the riots or those involved can visit the VPD's
dedicated riot investigation website at: https: //vancouver
.ca/police/riot2011/index.html.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne - PNG; Vancouver police released images of six assault
suspects Tuesday, stemming from the June 15 Stanley Cup riot. Integrated Riot
Investigation Team commander Insp. Les Yeo also introduced Robert Mackay (left),
who was beaten on the night of the riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 20, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

1921 TULSA RACE RIOT GAINS NEW SCRUTINY IN 3 BOOKS

BYLINE: Steve Weinberg Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1388 words


History is usually written by the winners. But in the instance of the Tulsa race
riot that occurred 81 years ago, the winners never wrote the history. Instead,
they buried it, along with the bodies. Lots of bodies. Maybe "only" 38. Maybe as
many as 300. Nobody can be sure.

In a way, the blacks and whites who confronted each other in that seemingly
pristine Oklahoma city on May 31-June 1, 1921, both lost. The battle, which grew
from decades of distrust that morphed into hatred, spawned even more distrust
and hatred. People of different skin colors who could have become friends, who
could have worked together in the name of civic progress, stayed separate.

As for the rest of the nation and world, they heard little about the race riot
then. It is rarely mentioned in history books, however casually. Despite my many
trips to Oklahoma, including visits to Tulsa, despite my acquaintanceships with
many Oklahomans, I had never heard of the 1921 deaths until a few years ago.

The fighting started because a young black man had allegedly touched a young
white woman in a downtown building elevator. Black men, probably numbering 75,
had marched to the county courthouse, many of them with guns, because they
feared the suspect would be lynched without a trial. Perhaps 1,500 whites
responded by entering the black neighborhood called Greenwood, where they
started fires and emptied their weapons into live targets. Some whites died.
Lots more blacks died.

What changed so that I and many other non-Tulsans know about the riot today?
Well, in 1997, government agencies -- spurred by a few courageous whites and
blacks who had unearthed large parts of the truth individually --approved a
commission to assemble the facts, mete out responsibility for the deaths and
consider whether compensation ought to be paid to victims' families.

It took Tim Madigan even longer to hear about the riots. A reporter at the Fort
Worth (Texas) Star-Telegram newspaper, Madigan received a brief wire service
article from his editor in early 2000 about the Tulsa Race Riot Commission.

"When I read the story," he says, "my reaction was the same as my editor's had
been. How could we not have known about such a thing? If the Tulsa Race Riot of
1921 was as horrible as the wire story seemed to suggest, surely it deserved a
place among the watershed moments in American racial history, alongside events
such as the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., Brown v. the Board of
Education, Little Rock, the March to Selma and Rosa Parks' historic resolve."

A few days later, Madigan visited Tulsa, where he interviewed a few elderly
black survivors of the riot, met a black state legislator who grew up in the
black neighborhood after the riot and talked to a white historian - a native of
Tulsa, who had resurrected much of the lost history. By the end of the month,
Madigan published a story in his newspaper. After that, he felt compelled to
write the book.

His book became available in the fall of last year. If it were the only book
about the Tulsa race riot, I would say buy it or borrow it, because you will
learn a lot. I would also warn you it is not a compelling book. The writing is
often wooden. There is a difference between newspaper prose and book prose. That
difference is usually hard to define, but lots of journalists, almost all book
editors and plenty of nonjournalist readers recognize the difference. Madigan's
chapters read mostly like long newspaper articles strung together. It is a book
about a worthy topic, but not a book that surpasses average in the nonfiction
realm. An obscure 1982 book by one of Madigan's sources is actually superior to
Madigan's, though obviously not as up to date. That book is "Death in a Promised
Land: The Tulsa Race Riot of 1921," written by Scott Ellsworth, published by
Louisiana State University Press.

Madigan's book is quite likely going to be eclipsed by the just-published James
S. Hirsch volume. Hirsch, who graduated from Clayton High School in 1980, used
to write for The New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. Somehow, he figured
out the difference between newspaper style and book writing. His first book,
"Hurricane," a biography of a wrongfully convicted champion boxer, is superb. So
is "Riot and Remembrance." The difference between Hirsch's book and Madigan's
goes beyond writing style. Hirsch's is more cerebral, devoting many of its pages
to the nature of memory - the memory of the 1921 survivors, the memory of their
ancestors, the way those memories played out during the Tulsa commission
inquiry.

In his source notes, Hirsch says "The very theme of this book - the dual
narratives of history - presents obvious challenges. In writing about the riot,
I had to sort through conflicting accounts and offer what I believe is the most
accurate version of events. I placed the greatest value on eyewitness accounts,
and several documents were indispensable in re-creating the riot's general
atmosphere and specific scenes of mayhem and in providing the dialogue at the
courthouse and elsewhere on the streets of Tulsa."

Hirsch realized that he had to keep an open mind, and it appears he did:
"Originally I thought the rationale for invading Greenwood - to subdue a Negro
uprising - was an excuse by white authorities to justify destroying the black
district. But (a memoir by W.C. Phillips, a Choctaw Indian who wrote from the
white perspective) underscored that on the night of the riot, many whites
honestly, but wrongly, believed that the blacks were trying to take over Tulsa.
... From that miscalculation flowed the tragic escalation of violence."

Hirsch's book is popular history done well. It is probably no coincidence that
it is being published during Black History Month. But "Riot and Remembrance" is
far more than a narrow account of one event in black history. It is a book for
the ages, a book about how when humans from diverse backgrounds start talking
openly, healing can begin.

Just as Hirsch's book arrived, so did Alfred L. Brophy's study. Brophy, a law
professor at the University of Alabama, has studied the Tulsa riot as an
academic. His knowledge led to his appointment as a consultant to the Tulsa Race
Riot Commission. In that role, he recommended reparations for black survivors
and their families. Brophy's source notes account for about one-third of this
slim book. So it is probably of greater use to aca demic historians than to the
general reader. The text is approachable, though. Brophy's history of
reparations is fascinating.

So many authors treading essentially the same ground has led to unintentional
conjunctions. For example, Hirsch's book devotes a few pages to Brophy's role.
Hirsch characterizes Brophy as a white law professor who specialized in race and
property law in antebellum America. A consummate Eastern liberal, Brophy had
been raised in Philadelphia and educated at Harvard and Columbia; he was
fascinated by jazz and liked to quote Ralph Ellison. In 1994 he accepted a job
at Oklahoma City University School of Law and suddenly found himself a political
outcast. Three years later he found partial deliverance when he read about the
commission's work. He volunteered his services and gladly joined the reparations
crusade, which he felt Oklahoma would embrace. ... He believed all
African-Americans deserved compensation for slavery and wanted Tulsa to be the
opening salvo in that battle.

For his part, Brophy endorses the quality of Hirsch's book in a Bibliographic
Essay at the end of "Reconstructing the Dreamland."

Dare I also mention that last year, novelist Rilla Askew based her work of
fiction "Fire in Beulah" (Viking, 376 pages, $25.95) on the Tulsa race riot, or
that at least one other book on the event is expected in 2002? A mini-industry
has been created, way too late. But better late than never.

====================

"Riot and Remembrance: The Tulsa Race War and Its Legacy"

By James S. Hirsch

Published by Houghton Mifflin, 358 pages, $25

"The Burning: Massacre, Destruction, and the Tulsa Race Riot of 1921"

By Tim Madigan

Published by St. Martin's, 297 pages, $24.95

"Reconstruction the Dreamland: The Tulsa Riot of 1921--Race, Reparations, and
Reconciliation"

By Alfred L. Brophy

Published by Oxford University Press, 187 pages, $25

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BOOK REVIEW BLACK HISTORY MONTH Steve Weinberg writes books, magazine
features and reviews from his home in Columbia, Mo. CONTACT US Jane Henderson
Book editor 900 N. Tucker Boulevard St. Louis, Mo. 63101 or e-mail:
jhenderson@post-dispatch.com

TYPE: PROFILE; BLACK HISTORY MONTH; TULSA RACE RIOT OF 1921; REVIEW - BOOK -
NONFICTION; "RIOT AND REMEMBRANCE: THE TULSA RACE WAR AND ITS LEGACY"; "THE
BURNING: MASSACRE, DESTRUCTION, AND THE TULSA RACE RIOT OF 1921";
"RECONSTRUCTION THE DREAMLAND: THE TULSA RIOT OF 1921--RACE,REPARATIONS, AND
RECONCILIATION"

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

Former judge of Bombay HC to probe Dhule riots

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: Mumbai


umbai, March 19 -- Former judge of the Bombay High Court Shrikant C Malte will
hold a judicial probe into the circumstances leading to the January 6, 2013
communal riots at Dhule in north Maharashtra, in which six persons were killed
and 169 others injured.

The single-member judicial commission, set up under Justice (retd) Malte, has
been set a deadline of three months to complete the probe.

Apart from establishing the circumstances leading to the communal disturbances,
the Malte Commission will try to ascertain if individual or group had engineered
the riots.

The commission will also probe if the district administration and police handled
the law and order situation arising out of the riots effectively and if the
firing resorted to by the police during the riots was justified.

Besides fixing responsibility for the riots, the Commission will recommend steps
to be taken by the State Government and district administration to ensure
against recurrence of similar riots at Dhule in future.

Earlier in the day, making an announcement about appointment of Justice (retd)
Malte to probe the Dhule riots, Maharashtra Home Minister R R Patil said in the
State Assembly that 24 persons had so far been arrested in connection with the
communal riots - which broke out after a petty quarrel over payment of a bill in
Machibazar locality of the north Maharashtra town.

Patil was responding to queries by the leader of the Opposition Eknath Khadse,
who wanted to know if there was any link between the much-discussed inflammatory
speech allegedly made MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi in Andhra Pradesh.

Replying to a question by Subhash Desai of the Shiv Sena, Patil denied that the
State Government had given any compensation to those behind the riots. "We have
given compensation to those families affected by the riots and not those who
took part in the riots," the Minister said. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 10, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SURVIVORS LISTEN AS HISTORIAN DETAILS HORRORS OF 1921 TULSA RACE RIOT;
COMMISSION WILL RULE ON REPARATIONS FOR BLACK VICTIMS CEMETERY MAY BE;
EXCAVATED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: TULSA, OKLA.


Survivors of the 1921 Tulsa race riot who were invited to testify before a
commission investigating the clash instead listened in silence Monday as a
historian detailed the horrors.

The story stunned 90-year-old Joyce Walker Hill, who heard for the f irst time
the extent of the attack by white mobs that forced her family to flee their
home.

"All I knew is that we were in it," said the Kansas City, Kan., woman, who was
11 when whites torched her black neighborhood.

The Tulsa Race Riot Commission invited more than 60 known survivors to share
their stories, but the five who came already had videotaped their testimony and
chose not to speak. The panel is trying to get a better picture of what happened
when the fighting broke out May 31, 1921, and to d etermine if reparations
should be made.

It approved a plan Monday to do limited excavation at a downtown cemetery where
archaeologists have narrowed a search for mass graves. State archaeologist Bob
Brooks said examining samples of remains is the only way to know for sure if
riot victims are buried there, but explained the excavation will require city
approval.

John Hope Franklin, head of President Bill Clinton's national advisory board on
race, also addressed the panel. His father survived the race riot.

Franklin called reparations a "mere pittance" to what victims suffered. But he
said if reparations or a memorial are necessary, "then do it."

"Whatever you do, it must be done in a spirit of good will, even love," Franklin
urged the panel.

The state Legislature created the panel in 1997 to look into the facts of the
riot after black lawmakers raised the issue of reparations. The details of what
happened and how many died have long been disputed.

Historian Scott Ellsworth, who wrote a book on the riot, now believes that it
was the worst single incident of racial violence in U.S. history. At least 200
to 300 people, mostly blacks, are believed to have perished.

Using new evidence gleaned in the commission's two-year study, Ellsworth walked
the panel through the fighting.

As many as 10,000 white men and boys gathered to attack the black community, he
said. Police officers and the local unit of the National Guard also joined in
the burning of 35 blocks of the once-thriving black business district, he said.

It all started when a white mob gathered to lynch a black man who had been
accused of attacking a white female elevator operator, who later declined to
press charges.

The whites confronted a group of black World War I veterans who showed up
offering to help defend the courthouse jail, Ellsworth said.

Survivor George Monroe nodded as Ellsworth related his story of hiding under a
bed as a white rioter set the home on fire. The man stepped on the 5-year-old
boy's fingers and Monroe's sister stifled his cry with her hand.

Ellsworth spoke of whites attacking with machine guns, burning a black church
erroneously thought to hold an arsenal, and of airplanes that fired down on
those who fled.

But even Ellsworth's detailed account left commission members with more
questions.

State Rep. Don Ross, whose legislation led to the panel's creation, said the
group had yet to hear why a "conspiracy of silence" had prevented full
disclosure until now.

"The business community, the political community and the media conspired to keep
quiet," he said. "It is significant, I think, that the cover-up is exposed."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Race riot survivor Joyce
Walker Hill, 90, listens to remarks during Monday's meeting of the Tulsa Race
Riot Commission in Tulsa, Okla. Hill heard for the first time the extent of the
attack by white mobs that forced her family to flee their home in 1921.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Rumors and riots;
China

BYLINE: Minxin Pei - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 848 words


Tens of thousands of mass protests and riots take place each year in China, but
the most recent and publicized riot, which occurred on June 28 in Weng'an, a
poor county in Guizhou, must be deeply unsettling to the Chinese authorities.

Erupting roughly 40 days before the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics,
the riot, captured on YouTube, clearly bothers a government that wants to
showcase China's prosperity and stability. The riot was also one of the largest
(involving more than 10,000 people) and most violent in recent years. Rioters
set fire to the headquarters of the local Communist Party and the police and
caused widespread property damage

The riot was apparently triggered by the local police's inept handling of a
recent case in which a teenage girl was allegedly raped and murdered. Instead of
conducting a thorough investigation, the police reportedly closed the case as a
suicide and beat up some of the victim's classmates who went to the police
headquarters to protest the decision. Incensed, thousands of ordinary people
besieged the police headquarters and unleashed their anger.

The Weng'an riot, however, is by no means unique or isolated. In fact, its cause
and violent manifestation are eerily similar to other mass riots.

On Sept. 7, 2006, a mob of several thousand surrounded the local government
buildings and the police station in Tangxia township near Rui'an (in Zhejiang
Province). They were infuriated by the local police's investigation of the death
of a female school teacher under mysterious circumstances.

After the victims' colleagues and students went to the local police station on
Sept. 6 to contest the authorities' conclusion that she committed suicide,
hundreds of riot police dispersed the protestors by force. Infuriated and
aggrieved, thousands of the township's residents, coordinated by cell-phone
messages, besieged the local government offices the next day. They also went to
the factory owned by the victim's husband, a rich entrepreneur who was rumored
to have murdered the woman and bought off the police. Once there, they set cars
on fire and destroyed the factory's equipment.

According to Chinese researchers, similar riots account for roughly 5 percent of
all the ''mass incidents'' that occur in China each year. Because the Chinese
government no longer releases reliable data, the best estimate, based on 2004
data, is that such violent large-scale riots number roughly 3,700 a year (or
about 10 a day) in China).

Although riots are quickly suppressed and do not constitute an immediate threat
to the Chinese Communist Party, Beijing needs to learn several important lessons
from incidents similar to the Weng'an riot so that it can more effectively
address the root causes of mass grievances.

While corruption and social injustice have often been correctly identified as
two of the main structural causes of such riots, two important factors that
often play a more immediate role in triggering public anger are often ignored.

First, local Chinese authorities have repeatedly demonstrated their incompetence
in handling incipient crises.

Typically, a mass riot has three phases. During the first phase, a local
government agency fails to meet the demands of aggrieved citizens to perform its
legally mandated duties. In the second phase, aggrieved citizens peacefully
petition the local authorities, but are treated with indifference or, often,
violent suppression by the government. In the third phase, the mistreatment of
the peaceful petitioners incenses ordinary citizens, setting off a mass riot.

Second, the Chinese government is paying the price for the lack of a free press
in China. Without a free press that enjoys public credibility, ordinary people
distrust the government but believe rumors.

Common to nearly all the reported mass incidents were two striking facts. Local
government officials' words carry no credibility, while rumors, spread by the
Internet and cell-phones, create a cascading effect that further inflames public
passions. (The Chinese government may have the world's most effective system of
censoring the Internet, but even such a system seems incapable of filtering out
rumors.)

There is one solution that would mitigate the effects of poor official responses
and low government credibility - more press freedom. A freer press can force
local officials to be more responsive and careful in handling the grievances of
ordinary citizens, thus removing the immediate causes of mass riots. A freer
press can also counter rumors and help repair the government's tattered public
credibility, a prized asset in preventing mass riots.

In its bid for the Olympics, Beijing implicitly pledged to expand press freedom.
While international visitors to Beijing would definitely welcome such a step,
the Chinese government should see that genuine press freedom is not just
something to impress foreigners with. It is an effective treatment for many of
its social ills as well.

*

Minxin Pei, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
in Washington, is the author of ''China's Trapped Transition.''

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                MintAsia (India)

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

How to apologize for a riot

LENGTH: 848  words

DATELINE: India


India, April 4 -- If you've been caught cheating on your girlfriend," says the
jester at our business school, "don't express remorse all at once. You have to
give her time to cycle through rage, retaliation, and comprehension of what
happened before you say sorry. You need to time it right. Like a stand-up artist
waiting to deliver a punchline."

Turns out, there's a science to this. In his book, On Apology, Aaron Lazare,
Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Massachusetts lists the four stages
of an effective apology: acknowledging you did it, allowing the wronged party
time to assimilate the news, expressing remorse, and making amends. Politicians
appear to have special need of this science. Perhaps only because they carry out
their business in the unflinching gaze of history, they seem to periodically
commit "unforgivable" transgressions-from the horrors of a Holocaust, to the
clumsy cunning of a Watergate, from the embarrassment of verbal gaffes, to the
callousness of riots. Apart from this are their personal foibles, which figure
much less in Indian national discourse, but are the stuff of much entertainment
in the West. More than 30 years after the Holocaust began, Willy Brandt,
Chancellor of West Germany, widely respected for his role in the Resistance
during World War II, spontaneously dropped to his knees at a commemoration of
Jewish victims of the Warsaw ghetto and wordlessly offered his homage. The
identity of the person making the apology, the timeliness and sincerity with
which it is made and acted upon would appear to be critical to its acceptance. A
democracy is not merely a five yearly ritual of voting, but a continuous process
of national deliberation, a "government by discussion". In such a system, people
should be protected from grave injustices and therefore, not in need of
effective apologies in this regard.

Amartya Sen and others have persuasively argued that the absence of famines in
functioning democracies is not on account of possible electoral repercussions
from the minority affected by a famine, but due to a national consensus that
famines must not occur in the presence of the capability to combat them. Sadly,
this consensus does not extend to daily deprivations that several Indians must
face or to frequent "natural" disasters such as floods and earthquakes. What of
the national discourse on riots? Hundreds of riots have taken place since
independence, which was itself stained by the blood of Partition. In most cases,
the Congress was the party in government. The Supreme Court recently pulled up
the Samajwadi Party government for mishandling the situation in Muzaffarnagar,
even as the Gujarat chief minister expressed "deep sadness" over the 2002 riots
in his state, and fielded those accused of abetting the Muzaffarnagar riot in
the national elections. Does our collective conscience rebel, or even stir, at
the thought of innocent people being killed in the name of religion and caste,
usually with state complicity? One could ask Sen, why riots continue to occur in
our democracy when famines do not, even though both may be equally tractable?

Examining the process of apology in the aftermath of a riot, using Lazare's
four-step framework may reveal why India is subject to riot after riot. The
process of reconciliation and repair gets blocked at the very first stage of
acknowledging responsibility. Hardly ever is the last stage of bringing the
guilty to book and making amends reached. Every alternative from denial that
riots happened, to justification based on which community made the first move,
to shifting blame to other political parties is elaborately explored. If all
fails, standard practice requires appeal to the occurrence of another riot,
engineered by a rival political party. The comparison of the Delhi riots of 1984
and the Gujarat riots of 2002 has spawned a mini-industry of mandarins. If there
had indeed been even a single famine after independence it appears, going by our
logic on riots, that we would have had many more, for then multiple wrongs would
make for an unassailable political right to inflict famines. In drawing room
conversations, that reflect the deliberations that determine our democratic
choices, we hear that sometimes an entire community has to suffer on account of
the deeds of a few miscreant members. We hear that the path to power is not
always pretty and some things have to be done which are better not spoken of.

Far from a national consensus against riots, we are in a situation where, for
politicians, the gains from engineering a riot every now and then, and then
sitting pretty, continue to be comparable if not greater to the losses. Till
this remains a reality, our democracy will be unable to check periodic outbreaks
of sectarian violence. One awaits the emergence of a political party and a
polity that exhibit zero tolerance for this national scourge.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from MintAsia. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2014 HT Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                MintAsia (India)

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

How to apologize for a riot

LENGTH: 848  words

DATELINE: India


India, April 4 -- If you've been caught cheating on your girlfriend," says the
jester at our business school, "don't express remorse all at once. You have to
give her time to cycle through rage, retaliation, and comprehension of what
happened before you say sorry. You need to time it right. Like a stand-up artist
waiting to deliver a punchline."

Turns out, there's a science to this. In his book, On Apology, Aaron Lazare,
Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Massachusetts lists the four stages
of an effective apology: acknowledging you did it, allowing the wronged party
time to assimilate the news, expressing remorse, and making amends. Politicians
appear to have special need of this science. Perhaps only because they carry out
their business in the unflinching gaze of history, they seem to periodically
commit "unforgivable" transgressions-from the horrors of a Holocaust, to the
clumsy cunning of a Watergate, from the embarrassment of verbal gaffes, to the
callousness of riots. Apart from this are their personal foibles, which figure
much less in Indian national discourse, but are the stuff of much entertainment
in the West. More than 30 years after the Holocaust began, Willy Brandt,
Chancellor of West Germany, widely respected for his role in the Resistance
during World War II, spontaneously dropped to his knees at a commemoration of
Jewish victims of the Warsaw ghetto and wordlessly offered his homage. The
identity of the person making the apology, the timeliness and sincerity with
which it is made and acted upon would appear to be critical to its acceptance. A
democracy is not merely a five yearly ritual of voting, but a continuous process
of national deliberation, a "government by discussion". In such a system, people
should be protected from grave injustices and therefore, not in need of
effective apologies in this regard.

Amartya Sen and others have persuasively argued that the absence of famines in
functioning democracies is not on account of possible electoral repercussions
from the minority affected by a famine, but due to a national consensus that
famines must not occur in the presence of the capability to combat them. Sadly,
this consensus does not extend to daily deprivations that several Indians must
face or to frequent "natural" disasters such as floods and earthquakes. What of
the national discourse on riots? Hundreds of riots have taken place since
independence, which was itself stained by the blood of Partition. In most cases,
the Congress was the party in government. The Supreme Court recently pulled up
the Samajwadi Party government for mishandling the situation in Muzaffarnagar,
even as the Gujarat chief minister expressed "deep sadness" over the 2002 riots
in his state, and fielded those accused of abetting the Muzaffarnagar riot in
the national elections. Does our collective conscience rebel, or even stir, at
the thought of innocent people being killed in the name of religion and caste,
usually with state complicity? One could ask Sen, why riots continue to occur in
our democracy when famines do not, even though both may be equally tractable?

Examining the process of apology in the aftermath of a riot, using Lazare's
four-step framework may reveal why India is subject to riot after riot. The
process of reconciliation and repair gets blocked at the very first stage of
acknowledging responsibility. Hardly ever is the last stage of bringing the
guilty to book and making amends reached. Every alternative from denial that
riots happened, to justification based on which community made the first move,
to shifting blame to other political parties is elaborately explored. If all
fails, standard practice requires appeal to the occurrence of another riot,
engineered by a rival political party. The comparison of the Delhi riots of 1984
and the Gujarat riots of 2002 has spawned a mini-industry of mandarins. If there
had indeed been even a single famine after independence it appears, going by our
logic on riots, that we would have had many more, for then multiple wrongs would
make for an unassailable political right to inflict famines. In drawing room
conversations, that reflect the deliberations that determine our democratic
choices, we hear that sometimes an entire community has to suffer on account of
the deeds of a few miscreant members. We hear that the path to power is not
always pretty and some things have to be done which are better not spoken of.

Far from a national consensus against riots, we are in a situation where, for
politicians, the gains from engineering a riot every now and then, and then
sitting pretty, continue to be comparable if not greater to the losses. Till
this remains a reality, our democracy will be unable to check periodic outbreaks
of sectarian violence. One awaits the emergence of a political party and a
polity that exhibit zero tolerance for this national scourge.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from MintAsia. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2014 HT Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 20, 2014 Monday

News media quickly descended on Keene to cover riots

BYLINE: Steve Gilbert, The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 840 words


Oct. 20--The glare from national and regional news coverage continues to put the
city in the spotlight today in the aftermath of the riots around Keene State
College Saturday.

Almost all of Boston's major television stations sent camera crews to Keene, and
WMUR-TV 9 had cameras and reporters on-scene around the clock Saturday night and
Sunday.

Much of the TV coverage was video-driven, as plenty of footage taken via
cellphones from people at the riots was available. The clips the stations used
mostly showed rioters throwing bottles at police, tearing down signs and
dispersing in packs when clouds of tear gas wafted over them.

By late Sunday and into today, the coverage had shifted to feature the
aftermath. Many reports centered on the hundreds of Keene State students who
went around campus and took to the area neighborhoods to help clean up the mess
from Saturday.

In a segment that aired Sunday during its 11 p.m. newscast, veteran reporter
Bill Shields from WBZ-TV Channel 4 interviewed several Keene State students, who
said they were embarrassed and angry by what took place. WBZ interspersed video
of the riots with students sweeping the streets during the day Sunday.

The images of students dancing on top of a car that was flipped over and items
burning in the middle of the streets were popular video choices.

Most of the television stations either led their newscasts with the riots, or
they were one of the top three stories Sunday.

This morning Fox-TV of Boston devoted its daily "Let 'Er Rip" segment on its
newscasts to the riots. In it, the morning anchors and a couple of reporters
have a roundtable with commentator Doug "VB" Goudie about trending stories. They
pointed out that the Keene State riots are not isolated, but that they've taken
place on several New England college campuses in recent years, specifically
singling out UMass-Amherst.

Unlike the protests in Ferguson, Mo., that are aimed at a specific cause, the
general consensus at Fox-25 was that alcohol fuels these rampages. Goudie called
the drunken students "idiots."

Print news reporters also descended upon Keene, with New England's largest
newspaper, The Boston Globe, sending reporters while the riots were taking place
Saturday. Today, the Globe has a recap and a question-and-answer article
ruminating on why it broke out.

Three Globe correspondents wrote about the riots in Sunday's paper, interviewing
a handful of Keene State students and describing what they saw on the streets.

The top three "trending now" pieces on boston.com, the Globe's online newspaper,
were all devoted to the riots. Most-viewed as of this morning was a clip of
Cheshire TV reporter Jared Goodell's confrontation with Let It Shine Inc.
President Ruth Sterling. Goodell was trying to report on the situation around
Keene State and Sterling attempted to take the microphone away from him, saying
she would shut the reporter down.

That took place on live television during the local cable access channel's
daylong coverage of the festival. The video first went viral on social media
Sunday.

Social media was a popular forum to talk about the riots, and at least one Keene
official posted an item on Facebook about his opinion. City Councilor Randy
Filiault's call to end the festival generated hundreds of comments Sunday.

The Union Leader of Manchester had a reporter in Keene to cover the festival
itself, although its article Sunday was devoted to the riot. Several follow-up
stories are in today's Union Leader, including a lead piece that centers on the
students cleaning up Sunday.

Nationally, many major news outlets such as CNN and AOL featured the riots as
their top stories Sunday, mostly using wire service correspondents.

The Christian Science Monitor today has a story featuring experts offering
opinions about why the riot in Keene may have started, and why similar rampages
are occurring more frequently across the country.

"Some of the riots are sports-related, but many -- like the ones in Keene
Saturday -- appear to have no apparent cause other than students' bad behavior
spiraling out of control," writes reporter Mark Sappenfield. "Alcohol has been
cited as a catalyst for student riots, but some experts question whether that
isn't merely an excuse for students to behave badly."

It was also on People.com (People magazine's website) and was trending as a top
Twitter item under #pumpkinfest.

Local radio was especially prominent in covering the festival. The Monadnock
Radio Group had a platform set up in front of Ted's Shoe and Sport on Main
Street with two of its stations reporting live. As the scope of the riots became
apparent, its reporters fanned out into the neighborhoods of Keene State.

WKBK-AM 1290 morning host Dan Mitchell interviewed City Manager John MacLean at
about midnight, then joined early Sunday morning talk-show host Al Kulas in
fielding phone calls from area listeners about the festival.

___ (c)2014 The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) Visit The Keene Sentinel (Keene,
N.H.) at www.sentinelsource.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141020-KN-News-media-quickly-descended-on-Keene-to-cover-riots
-20141020

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KN


                                 Copyright 2014


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

The Causes of Britain's Riots Won't Go Away

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words


To the Editor:

The official reactions to England's latest round of urban rioting (front page,
Oct. 8) by a British Government that now plans to arm the police with plastic
bullets and tear gas illustrate how poorly that Government understands the
nature and causes of the renewed violence. A reasonable response to such a
series of riots would be to identify and remedy the underlying riot-provoking
conditions in Britain's cities.

Instead, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her colleagues continue simply to
blame a vague combination of criminal elements and leftist opportunists for the
riots. The charge by Sir Kenneth Newman, Commissioner of Police for metropolitan
London, that anarchist and Trotskyite instigators are behind this year's riots
is nothing new. Similar accusations were made after the 1981 disturbances. Lord
Scarman, in his inquiry into the disorders of April 1981 in London's Brixton
section, found that these accusations were without substantial merit. While he
conceded that some ''outsiders'' did participate in the violence once it had
begun, Lord Scarman maintained that the riot ''originated as a spontaneous crowd
reaction to police action.''

Some critics have faulted the Scarman report, noting that the latest riots come
just four years after its submission. Thus, the Home Secretary, Douglas Hurd,
concludes, ''Inquiries do not stop riots.'' However, while the Scarman report
attracted considerable attention among scholars and the media, its substantive
proposals have largely been ignored.

Among these proposals were increased recruitment of black police officers, less
reliance on ''hard policing,'' better community-police consultation and other
measures intended to address both the criminal and socioeconomic problems of the
riot-stricken inner-city areas. Lord Scarman's most daring proposal, making
''racially prejudiced or discriminatory behavior'' by police officers a specific
disciplinary offense, was rejected out of hand by both the Thatcher Government
and the police. Opposition to this proposal centered on the problem of defining
such behavior clearly enough to allow enforcement. However, one incident during
the 1981 riot in Manchester, where police chanted ''Nigger, nigger, nigger, oi,
oi, oi,'' illustrates just how concrete police racism often is.

Until the proposals put forth by Lord Scarman and others have been at least
tested, it is absurd to dismiss the value of inquiries in preventing future
violence.

Likewise absurd is the Home Secretary's assertion that the riots are simply
''the result of criminal actions.'' Many criminal actions occur each day in the
areas where riots have occurred. Why has violence not been even more frequent?
Clearly, these riots, like those of 1981 (as well as those in our own country
during the mid-1960's) come about for many reasons - among them, racism,
overaggressive policing, socioeconomic stress and crime (itself a highly complex
phenomenon). Any government that truly desires to stop riots must address all of
these problems, not just those that are politically attractive.

Finally, you err in stating that plastic bullets and tear gas ''have yet to be
used in a civil disturbance in Britain.'' The first use of tear gas by British
police (outside Northern Ireland) was in the Toxteth riot of 1981. At that time,
Mrs. Thatcher announced that her Government would support the use of gas and
plastic bullets in future disturbances. Police forces in Britain have, in fact,
been equipped with these weapons for at least three years.ERIC M. FINK Wilton,
Conn., Oct. 8, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 8, 1991, Sunday

Riotous Behaviour ; Then and Now

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 250 words


1780: The Gordon Riots in London, which began as a Protestant demonstration
against parliamentary proposals for Catholic toleration, develop into riots
against authority, including Lord Chief Justice Mansfield. Sixty years later,
Dickens gives an account in Barnaby Rudge:

''The mob gathering round Lord Mansfield's house had called on those within to
open the door, and receiving no reply . . . forced an entrance . . . they then
began to demolish the house with great fury . . . while they were howling and
exulting . . . a troop of soldiers, with a magistrate among them, came up, and
being too late (for the mischief was by that time done), began to disperse the
crowd. The Riot Act being read, and the crowd still resisting, the soldiers
received orders to fire, and levelling their muskets, shot dead at the first
discharge six men and a woman, and wounded many persons; . . . daunted by the
shrieks and tumult, the crowd began to disperse, and the soldiers went away,
leaving the killed and wounded on the ground - which they had no sooner done
than the rioters came back again, and taking up the dead bodies, and the wounded
people, formed into a rude procession, having the bodies in the front . . . in
this order they paraded off with a horrible merriment; fixing weapons in the
dead men's hands to make them look as if alive . . .''

1991: After riots in Oxford, Cardiff and Birmingham, the Police Federation calls
for the restoration of the Riot Act, which had been repealed in 1967.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             August 13, 2004 Friday
                                 First Edition

Push for forceful anti-riot arsenal

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words


Police are considering the use of riot-control equipment such as rubber bullets,
armoured rescue vehicles, long-range capsicum spray and gas grenades in a more
forceful policy against public disorder in response to February's riot in
Redfern.

Police regard the equipment - categorised as "offensive" but "less than lethal"
- as more effective in dispersing groups of people while maximising the
protection of police because it can be deployed from a distance.

An internal police report by Strike Force Coburn recommended police consider
using the equipment because the riot gear available on the night of the Redfern
riot was inadequate.

Forty-five police and two police dogs were injured in the riot.

The report said "impact projectiles" offered "the capability to overcome an
offender's resistance from a safe distance through the use of only impact
energy".

However, the report said its legal advice was that the use of such equipment was
not in current police guidelines and would expose the force to criticism and
possible legal liability.

This could be avoided through adequate training and operating routines and new
protocols for authorising the equipment's use.

Another recommendation was that police public order management policy should be
rewritten to reflect "a change in the corporate philosophy ... encompassing more
forceful police action to unlawful behaviour rather than just containment as a
goal".

The Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, has refused to release the report until
next Tuesday, when the NSW Coroner, John Abernethy, is to deliver his findings
into the death of Thomas "TJ" Hickey, which led to the riot.

A copy of the report was leaked to the media yesterday.

It found that Redfern police had failed to identify warning signs before the
riot, partly because of a breakdown in the relationship with their Aboriginal
community liaison officers.

Inspector Bob Emery, of Redfern police, told the taskforce the liaison officer
called on the afternoon of the riot was "hopeless, intoxicated and had no
driver's licence".

Before the riot, the Redfern local area command had only three registered
informants reporting on drug activity - half the state average. There are now
five, and the report recommended boosting intelligence gathering across
commands.

It said warning signs were "clearly evident" but local police, accustomed to
low-level unrest, did not sense any cause for alarm.

The report said the riot equipment at Redfern should be upgraded because it was
inadequate, ill-fitting and below "operational quality".

The Deputy Commissioner, Dave Madden, said yesterday that he had accepted the
recommendations but no action would be taken against officers involved.

"I'm not looking for heads in relation to this matter," he said, adding that
police had identified failings in some of the decisions made on the night and in
back-up support and equipment and were rectifying the problems.

MAIN RECOMMENDATIONS

* Police should investigate the use of "less than lethal" riot equipment,
including rubber bullets, long-range capsicum spray and armoured rescue vehicles
similar to those used in Northern Ireland.

* A change in the police "corporate philosophy" towards riots to add a "more
forceful" attitude to the policy of containment.

* Riot equipment at Redfern police station should be upgraded.

* Better intelligence gathering across local area commands.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 15, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIA QUAKES, RIOTS BRING ABOUT NO SIGNS OF EXODUS BUILDER 'SEEING;
ABSOLUTELY NO CHANGES'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26E

LENGTH: 741 words


SIMI VALLEY, Calif. - Southern Californians have experienced both riots and
earthquakes in the last four months, but so far they show no signs of the panic
that led to massive white flight after the Watts riot of 1965.  Never mind the
many television news reports of fearful Los Angeles residents house-shopping in
far-out suburbs following this spring's riots.  Real estate people say there has
been virtually no exodus at all.  Never mind the more recent TV clips showing
fearful Californians ready to flee to points east after the recent earthquakes.
There are no signs those temblors will spur many to leave.  ''We're seeing
absolutely no changes in the type of people interested in our suburban
developments or the ones we're building in nearby states,'' says Randall Lewis,
executive vice president and marketing director of Lewis Homes in Upland,
Calif., one of America's 10 leading home builders.  The Lewis firm has two
projects under construction on the fringes of the L.A. riot area and several
more within 40 miles of the epicenters of the two recent earthquakes. Lewis also
is the largest developer in Nevada and sells homes in Arizona.  ''After the
riots, we did not experience any rush to our outlying projects,'' Lewis said.
''And we have a long waiting list for a project we're building in Carson,
Calif., fairly close to the riot area. We're building over 50 townhomes there,
and we made no changes at all after the riots. Our prices are the same. And
since the earthquakes, our projects outside California have not drawn more
Californians than usual.'' It's the same almost everywhere in Southern
California - despite predictions of massive flight by some analysts. The
region's recent disasters have changed almost nothing about the way most
Californians live.  Real estate brokers in outlying suburbs like Simi Valley say
there was a brief flurry of visits by Angelenos immediately after the April
29-May 1 riot, but large-scale interest in moving quickly died out. Similarly,
there have been few panic moves out of the state since the twin temblors.
''People simply can't afford to move,'' said Steven Klein, a demographer for the
Rand Corp. think tank. ''The recession is one of the big reasons for the lack of
movement.'' Alan Kreditor, dean of the School of Urban and Regional Planning at
the University of Southern California, said, ''I don't think the riots changed
anyone's life plan substantially. We have a long-term trend of people moving
toward the fringes of cities like L.A., so the riots and earthquakes shouldn't
be more than a brief blip on the screen.'' That's also the way it looks to real
estate agents in both suburbs and close-in locales.  ''There was a lot of
interest in moving for the first two weeks after the riot,'' said Yvonne
McMillan, office manager and co-owner of the Century 21 America real estate
brokerage in Thousand Oaks. ''We averaged about two calls a day from frightened
Los Angeles people at that time. But new calls are dying down, because people
are finding it hard to sell their existing places in a bad market. And most
people have to sell one house before they can buy another one.'' It's the same
for brokers in Simi Valley, site of the Rodney King police beating trial whose
outcome triggered the riots.  ''We're not getting a lot of turnover in
general,'' says Pam Silverman, assistant manager of the local Coldwell Banker
brokerage. ''We did have some people come out right after the riots, but even
then they certainly didn't come in droves. And if there were a big move out
here, you'd expect prices to go up. But they haven't moved much in the last
couple of months.'' In fact, prices in Ventura County, just northwest of Los
Angeles, are far lower today than they were a year ago, having declined 8.8
percent in the last six months, according to the Real Estate Research Council of
Southern California.  Over the same time, prices in the rest of Southern
California dropped about 4.5 percent. In Simi Valley, the average three-bedroom
home now sells for about $201,000 and the average four-bedroom for $243,500.
It's much the same in suburbs east of Los Angeles, even those quite close to the
earthquake epicenters.  ''No one has called us yet to say they're leaving
because of the quakes,'' says Gary Miller, owner of Prudential Miller Real
Estate in Yucaipa, less than 15 linear miles from the center of the Big Bear
temblor, 6.7 on the Richter scale.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Rahul Gandhi knows nothing about 1984 Sikh riots? His father Rajiv Gandhi had
ignored calls from President Giani Zail Si...

LENGTH: 558  words


New Delhi: The Rahul Gandhi Times Now interview seems to have freshened the
wounds of Sikh families still awaiting justice in the 1984 Sikh riots.

In Frankly Speaking With Arnab, Rahul Gandhi had asserted that the Congress
government did everything to stop the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi in 1984. However,
the then President Giani Zail Singh's press secretary Tarlochan Singh alleged
that the riots were "orchestrated and sponsored." He even claimed that the then
PM Rajiv Gandhi did not even take calls from the President when he tried to get
in touch with him to discuss the situation, reports The Indian Express.

"The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the Government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots. In
Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong," Rahul
had said during the TV interview.

In contrast to Rahul Gandhi's assertion that Narendra Modi abetted the riots in
Gujarat in 2002, Tarlochan Singh claimed that the police in Gujarat tried to
prevent the rioters resulting in the killing of 137 people in police firing
unlike in Delhi where only one person was killed in police action.

"Indira Gandhi was shot dead in the morning, but the first riots started in the
evening. Gyaniji collected this information himself that a meeting of Congress
leaders - attended by Arun Nehru and Delhi leaders like HKL Bhagat, Jagdish
Tytler and all - took place before Rajiv Gandhi arrived from Kolkata. They
decided to give a slogan 'khoon ka badla khoon'. The first riot then took place
near INA market," The Indian Express quoted Tarcholan Singh as saying.

Mr Singh further said if the riots were "spontaneous", they should have been
started in the morning itself. However, it all started in the evening.

"The President wanted to speak to the PM about the largescale arson and violence
in Delhi. The PM did not get back to the President. All night he tried over
telephone. Nobody responded. In the morning, he tried to speak to Home Minister
Narasimha Rao. He was told that we are all busy in making arrangements for the
funeral. He was told that the Lt Governor and the Police Commissioner are taking
control. The whole of next day, neither the PM nor the Home Minister took any
interest in defusing the situation or help the victims," Tarlochan Singh told
Indian Express.

Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi gave his second interview in the year 2014.
His TV interview came nearly two weeks after he spoke to Kalpesh Yagnik of
Dainik Bhaskar in his first ever one-on-one exclusive interview.

Congress vice-president and poll campaign chief Rahul Gandhi opened up to an
elaborate interview after his political debut in 2004. He took direct questions
on wide range of subjects including questions if he was scared of a political
face off against Modi? What is his view on 1984 Sikh riots? Was he a reluctant
politician? How does he hold Narendra Modi responsible for Gujarat riots?

But his answers during the interview have sparked controversies which might hurt
an already-in-crisis Congress just few weeks before the 2014 Lok Sabha
elections.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday

Don't wash away the scum, John

BYLINE: Anthony

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1210 words


The PM would do well to pay attention to the underclass as he prepares to wield
cost-cutting policies.

--------------------

WINSTON PETERS is right: the riots could happen here. We have an underclass. We
have "scum" ready to loot. We have vast wealth and black poverty. Many young
people don't have a job. Many young people with jobs would enjoy the thrill of a
riot. Comfortable folks would go mad and grab a huge TV out of a broken shop.

The British riots were carnivals as well as crime sprees. They were explosions
of greed as well as howls of rage. So John Key joins his Tory twin David Cameron
in denouncing "criminals and looters". There were brutal criminals and gangsters
on the streets, no question. And some of the looters were middle-class.

But Key and Cameron are only half-right. The riots began in Tottenham, which has
the highest unemployment in London, though they spread to smug-and-wealthy
Notting Hill. The riots were fiercest in poor areas, not in Knightsbridge. The
muggings were horrible, of course. The image of the battered young Malaysian,
Asyraf Haziq, helped to his feet while his backpack was rifled, has become an
emblem.

But an emblem of what? The underclass is ugly when it goes on the rampage. We
are rightly appalled by what happened to Haziq. But how fascinating that he told
reporters that he "felt sorry" for the people who robbed him. Perhaps he
understood that his own prospects in life - he is an accountancy student - are
much brighter than theirs.

This is not to excuse the rioters but simply to recognise that riots don't come
out of nowhere. "Looters are scum", said the hand- written motto on the T-shirt
of a young middle-class woman, another emblem of the riots. Looting is criminal
greed and criminals are punished. But the riots were also political.

Today Key holds his rally at the National Party conference and is rumoured to be
making a "controversial announcement" about welfare. The British riots provide a
handy background. They inspire fear and horror and an urge to "crack down" on
the underclass.

Beneficiary-bashing will always work in an election year, and it will have
widespread support. The working poor resent the non- working poor. National's
middle- class clients will always have a problem with beneficiaries, and they
will always be frightened of the proles.

But let's not be stampeded into silliness. We stand in the same tinder that
flared up in Britain, as Canterbury political scientist Bronwyn Hayward says.
Hayward, who has been studying the politics of youth culture in Britain for
three years, saw riots there last year and predicted there would be more.

"There were kids as young as 14 out in the streets back then," she said. "They
were angry, pumped up, burning things in the street, breaking windows and
generally looking for a fight. It has now spread across the whole country and
it's time for Britain to face that it has been ignoring its children."

Youth unemployment in Britain stands at 20%, its highest in 20 years. It is also
20% in New Zealand. It is the young people who are most likely to riot. This is
partly because youth is hot- blooded. It is also partly because adolescents are
often lost and feel unattached to their society. Jobless young people don't have
a strong stake in the status quo: they lack mortgages and wages and dependants,
the ties that bind.

What's more, the outlook for them isn't good. The world may now be entering a
second bout of recession and the government's promises of growth are looking
thin.

Some 45% of our unemployed are young, as the New Zealand Institute think tank
said in a major report on young people last week.

"Every country has disadvantaged youth. New Zealand's are more disadvantaged
than youth in other OECD countries on average, the disadvantage is strongly
concentrated in Maori and Pacific ethnic groups and there is no convincing sign
of improvement," it said.

New Zealand's two most famous riots show the same strange mixture as in Britain.
The 1932 Queen St riots were overtly and overwhelmingly political: an
unemployment protest went wrong. Some 15,000 men gathered at the Town Hall, and
many could not get in. There was a scuffle with the police and a policeman hit
union leader Jim Edwards when he got up to speak. The crowd went berserk,
streamed down Queen St and smashed and looted.

Some used fence palings to smash shop windows - palings supposedly taken from a
Methodist church. This prompted the - perhaps apocryphal - remark by left-wing
Methodist broadcaster Colin Scrimgeour (Uncle Scrim) that he "could think of no
better use for church property".

There is a sense in which this was a "respectable" riot: it was a political
protest by desperate men. But at the time many conservatives condemned it as
savagery and thuggery and greed, and called upon respectable folks to put it
down like a rabid dog.

There is a political element in the British riots too. Some of the protesters
talked about growing inequality, the greed of the rich and the political power
of tycoons (remember Rupert Murdoch). "We're showing the rich people we can do
what we want," one said. "The politicians say that we loot and rob - they are
the original gangsters," said another.

The other Queen St riot, in 1984, was altogether different: a rock concert that
went septic. Here there was no obvious political dimension.

At a free show to mark the end of the academic year, the music stopped abruptly
when the power went off. Some of the large crowd threw bottles at the police
while waiting for it to start again. A police riot squad arrived, and the riot
began. Again the crowd smashed their way from Aotea Square down the street.

This was the result of drunkenness, summer heat, disappointment and bad
organisation. The young people were students, not proles. It was sudden madness
and there was no cause at stake. This was the other side of the British riots as
well. "Come join the fun!" shouted one looting lad in Hackney.

The riots were nothing but "criminality, pure and simple", Cameron said. But
what started them was a political protest. Mark Duggan, a 29-year-old father of
four, was shot by police after the taxi he was in was stopped by a unit
investigating gun crime in the black community.

We have most of the elements needed for a riot. We also have a conservative
government hell-bent on cutting, as Britain has. Key's administration has
already signalled it wants to slash welfare spending, and it has a blueprint.

The government-appointed working group wants to force sole parents back to work
when their youngest child turns three. All beneficiaries should be seen as
job-seekers, it said. Those who the state believes are not trying hard enough
will lose their benefits. But life is messy, the jobs are slow in coming, and
not every beneficiary will be able to work.

Many are already living lives of quiet desperation. Under certain circumstances,
desperation can turn to rage. National is riding high and the delegates at its
conference will be so euphoric that Key will warn them not to become smug and
complacent. In the heat of the moment, perhaps Key will remember to be sensible
and moderate about welfare too.

POWER OF THE HOODIE / Focus, page 6

MICHAEL LAWS / Focus, page 9

--------------------

CAPTION:

Illustration: Michael Leunig

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Fine line between protests, riots

BYLINE: Azmi Anshar

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 799 words


THE England-Holland football friendly was something to look forward to later
tonight but the game has been called off over fear of a horrendous backlash from
the riots gripping good old London. Or that the policemen that would have
patrolled the stadium are needed at the flashpoints.

This is what riots imply and the nastiness it promises when peaceful street
protests are deviously hijacked by sociopaths.

There is a disturbing thread linking public demonstrations, public lynching
rampant in pre-civil rights America, melee over toys given away in family
restaurants, fisticuffs in a grand sale, Rwandan genocide, gang rapes and thugs
beating or bullying the weak to the anarchy engulfing London.

The thread is mob mentality and whenever large numbers of people gather
together, rioting is always a possibility.

In fact, a football game, especially a high-pressure game between two bitter
rivals, qualifies as a rioting time bomb. But traditionally and realistically,
authorities do not bar football matches or games but place thousands of
well-armoured anti-riot personnel to scour the arenas to deter the resolve of
would-be rioters, stifle looming fights between rival gangs/supporters or stop
hooligans from instigating chaos.

Evidence that humans are predatory animals when it comes to such mob tribalism
were aptly demonstrated in every facet of the socio-political spectrum - race
riots (America in the 1960s and Malaysia in 1969), religious riots (partitioning
of India/Pakistan), student riots protesting against social injustice and urban
riots against poverty and unemployment.

Food riots are common, too, provoked by harvest failures, poor food storage,
hoarding and poisoning. Even a contained and controlled area like prisons are
susceptible, with inmates picking fights with wardens to express grievances.

If you examine all these categories of riots, in every incident, mob mentality
was the outcome, usually whipped up by an agent provocateur manipulating
highly-strung emotions to either walk in peace or compel everyone to scream
bloody murder.

Lethal riots reared its ugly head in London after the city was gripped by the
apocalyptic rioting of hundreds of youths - some angry, some cynical, some
opportunistic - as they exploited disenfranchisement and other social
marginalisation as justification to loot stores, throw bricks at properties,
smash cars and set establishments ablaze.

London police takedown of one man, a certain gangster with a disconcerting
background, was the provocation needed to pilfer, rampage and destroy, even as
his family pleaded not to use his death as an excuse to riot.

There is a fine line between demonstrating for justified political purposes and
a full-blown riot that forgets what the demonstration was all about in the first
place.

However, that line has already been blurred for a long time in Malaysia. It's
idealistic to declare that Malaysians are mature enough to demonstrate
peacefully on the streets but the reality harbours a menacing scenario -- a
little demonstration to express dissatisfaction can escalate into a lethal mess
if the organisers are not careful or unable to control volatile emotions of
protesters.

Police, on the other hand, are paid not to take chances, especially when they
are deeply aware of the historical precedents of well-meaning demonstrations
that sunk into full-blown riots.

Already, London police are being bitterly criticised and blamed for allowing the
demonstration to collapse into mayhem. Because of the riots, properties, some
standing for five generations, have been senselessly gutted. Besides the
England-Holland game, Carling Cup fixtures in London were also cancelled.

In civilised societies, rioting is the anti-thesis of what has been taught,
trained and instructed to its members. If there are complaints and grievances,
the system encourages the aggrieved to take it up with the relevant hotlines,
tribunals and courts.

A system of legal avenues are there to appease dissatisfaction and deliver
justice. But recognise this: in ugly demonstrations and riots, the agent
provocateur responsible will try to be invisible in stringing the public show of
force to justify his railings or shield his failings.

Nonetheless, Malaysian police have taken the right cognizance that failure to
quell a demonstration-turn-riot leads to a horrifying situation.

That is why demonstrations, especially those political in nature, are
reluctantly allowed because a disallowed one prodded by recalcitrant organisers
would almost always morph into a brutal skirmish, as was reflected on July 9.

London police are just now beginning to understand the nature of the
demonstrating beast. They will now be made abundantly clear that what can begin
as a benign street protest can also spiral into a revolting nightmare.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2004 by the President and Fellows of Harvard
                                    College
                        Harvard BlackLetter Law Journal

                                  Spring, 2004

                           20 Harv. BlackLetter J. 83

LENGTH: 3001 words

REPARATIONS SYMPOSIUM: The Oklahoma Commission To Study the Tulsa Race Riot of
1921

NAME: Eddie Faye Gates

HIGHLIGHT: Excerpted from Riot on Greenwood*


     Editor's note: On May 31-June 1, 1921, what would become known as "the
     worst race riot in American history" took place. A young black man was
     accused of assaulting a white female elevator operator, and it was
     rumored that he would be lynched. Racial tensions quickly mounted, and
     Tulsa's Greenwood District came under attack by white rioters, who
     burned thirty-five blocks of north Tulsa to the ground. Ten whites and
     twenty-six blacks are known to have been killed. Many more deaths went
     unconfirmed.





   * Excerpted from Riot on Greenwood: The Total Destruction of Black Wall
Street. Eddie Faye Gates. Copyright 2003 by Eddie Faye Gates. Used by
permission. All rights reserved. Published in April 2003 by Eakin Publications.

 TEXT:
 [*83]  The Oklahoma State Legislature authorized a commission in 1997 to
research this devastating event. After three and a half years of intensive
research, the commission found what had been hinted at for four decades. There
had been a pattern of deliberate distortion of facts regarding the riot and even
the destruction of vital documents and a subsequent coverup.

   The 169 living black survivors that I interviewed between 1997 and 2001
ranged in age from 80 to 108. Unfortunately, all the centenarians have passed
on, including 104-year-old Tulsan Lillie Skelton Rice and 104-year-old Mabel B.
Little. The survivors live all over the United States, and one lives in Paris,
France. Oklahoma has the largest group of survivors, followed by California and
Illinois. The political, economic, and social status of survivors varies. Some
lead well-to-do vibrant, active lives in their communities despite advancing
age. Others are not well-off and lead subsistence lives. One was evicted from
her Tulsa home during the Christmas holidays in 2001.

   The world has finally heard about the survivors of the Tulsa Race Riot of
1921 thanks to print and electronic media coverage generated by the commission's
study.

   Representative Don Ross (D), District 73, Tulsa, was the driving force behind
the commission's creation. As a fifteen-year-old student at Tulsa's Booker T.
Washington High School in 1956, Ross first heard about the riot in a history
class taught by the revered W. D. Williams. Once planted, this seed was destined
to blossom when the time was right. Known for his pitbull [*84]  tenacity in the
pursuit of equality and justice for all people, especially for the oppressed,
Ross did not rest until the facts of this worst race riot in the history of our
nation were made known to the world. He knew that there would be denial, delayed
acknowledgments, anger, frustration, and conflict let loose as a result of this
study, yet he doggedly pursued it.

   Ross himself had been in denial as a fifteen-year-old when he first heard Mr.
Williams's accounts of the riot. It was only after the teacher brought to school
bulging scrapbooks and photograph albums containing eyewitness documentation of
the riot that the skeptical student was convinced. Ross made a pledge in his
heart that someday the whole city, state, nation, and world would know about
this riot, too.

   The Tulsa black community was grateful to Representative Don Ross and Senator
Maxine Homer (D), District 11, Tulsa, for co-sponsoring House Bill 1035, which
created the Oklahoma Commission to Study the Tulsa Race Riot of 1921. Ross and
Homer, and the other three members of the Black Caucus of the Oklahoma
legislature, were behind the resolution that created the law establishing the
commission. But that vocal caucus, as dedicated as it was, couldn't have gotten
the bill through alone. The majority of the state legislature sensed the
importance of addressing that long-ago injustice, and they recognized how
significant such a study was to the black people of Tulsa. They understood the
need for acknowledgment, repentance, reconciliation, and closure. They knew
about such movements worldwide. And so, with this law, they opened up their
state's history to the world--sort of the opening up of a can of worms! But they
did it, and for that act of courage, I thank them.

   In my summation of the riot commission, you will see that I was not pleased
with all the responses of the legislature to the commission's
recommendations--especially regarding reparations for survivors and descendants
of survivors--but for tackling the issue of the riot head-on, I give the
legislature praise.

   HB 1035 was an excellent bill--clear, concise, detailed, focused. Because of
that, the task of commissioners was made easier. We knew exactly who we were,
how we were appointed, what we were to do, when we were to do it, how we were to
do it, and why we were doing it. We commissioners took our work seriously.

   The meetings of the commission, held quarterly at the beginning of our
research in 1997 and then escalating to monthly meetings and even to special
called meetings near the end, were always vibrant, exciting, and well attended,
especially when national and international media were present. When the Sixty
Minutes crew from New York descended upon north Tulsa in 1999, there was
standing room only at the riot commission meeting!

   As much as it meant to commissioners to have our hard work appreciated by the
national media, riot experts, consultants, historians, etc. whose faces we
recognized at our meetings, nothing warmed our hearts more, or stirred us to
work harder, than the loving, beaming faces of the survivors themselves, or
their devoted descendants. They were the reason the commission had been formed,
and they were the reason for our hard work. They kept us motivated; just the
sight of them rejuvenated us!

   In some of the newspaper accounts of our riot commission meetings, and in
some of the other research and writings now available about the riot, scholars,
historians, and authors often concentrated more on divisiveness [*85]  between
commission members than on the content of our research. Although we were a
racially and geographically diverse group of people, and although we had
legitimate cultural differences, we were thoughtful of one another and carried
out our research in an atmosphere as harmonious as could be under the
circumstances. There was no bitterness or hatred between any of the
commissioners. One day after an especially difficult commission meeting when we
were discussing the issue of reparations, one of the most conservative members
of the commission, one of the white legislators, came over to me and said, "I
love you, little lady. We may differ in our opinions regarding the riot and in
the ways we believe best for dealing with riot issues, but I am sincere in my
efforts, and I know you are sincere in yours." We hugged each other and I
replied, "I love you, too, and I know that what you just said is true."

   Given the seriousness of the issue of race in any culture or nation, it is no
wonder that some committee meetings were tense. Race is the most divisive of all
issues.

   Black commissioners did not come to the table with axes to grind; we did not
come with agendas to promote our individual causes, nor with overblown egos and
desires to grandstand.

   We did come to the table as experts on race, due to our training and personal
experience. We did come as a marginalized group whose history had been neglected
in the nation. We intended to use this opportunity wisely, to fulfill our
state-mandated task of leaving a record of the riot that would clear up
misconceptions and would lead to long-overdue reconciliation and healing.

   The issues that generated the most debate at commission meetings were: (1)
reparations; (2) the role of the Ku Klux Klan in Oklahoma generally and in Tulsa
specifically; (3) questions regarding airplanes and/or a conspiracy in the
destruction of the Greenwood District in the riot; and (4) reliability of black
primary sources.

REPARATIONS

   All of us commissioners knew that reparations was a touchy issue, and we
worked hard to learn as much about the subject as we could. We did thorough
research, and we compared and contrasted reparation examples in history and
found a wide range of views on the subject. In addition to studying the
materials that we found ourselves, we studied those that our legal consultants
and scholars provided for us. Al Brophy's legal materials grounded us in the
legal aspects of reparations, and we drank in Dr. Ed Linenthal's speech before
the committee about dealing with massacres, riots, and reconciliation and
healing.

   Among the local programs on race, reconciliation, and reparations that some
commissioners attended were:

   1. The University of Tulsa's American Inns of Court, Council Oak Inn Tulsa
Race Riot Part II Program: "Fashioning a Remedy," in which lawyers presented pro
and con arguments regarding reparations.

   2. National Conference Dialogue programs on "Race and Reconciliation."

   3. Oklahoma State University-Tulsa programs on "Racial Profiling."

    [*86]  4. The Metropolitan Tulsa Urban League program "Reframing the
Dialogue on Race."

   Dr. Vivian Clark-Adams and I also served on reparations panels at Tulsa
Community College, Langston University, Oklahoma State University-Tulsa,
Southwest Missouri State University, Springfield, Missouri, and the State
University of New York, New Paltz.
As a result of the media descent upon Tulsa for riot and reparations
information, and of my travels, I now have a deeper understanding of the
reparations issue. I have found that there is a wide range of views regarding
reparations. Some people, and culpable entities, believe a total, sincere
commitment to reparations is necessary if there is ever to be a repairing of
damages caused by past violence; others believe that "a dash of cash" and
mumbled apologies suffice. The fear that support of reparations implies an
acceptance of personal responsibility for past wrongdoing causes many to shy
away from advocating reparations.

THE KU KLUX KLAN

   There was a lot of bickering and nitpicking between commissioners and others
over what constituted a Klansman and what role the Klan played in the Tulsa Race
Riot of 1921. Some people, mainly some whites, supported the theory that the
Tulsa riot was a "white ruffian" riot devised and carried out by that group
without the knowledge and consent of the leadership of Tulsa or Tulsa's "good
and decent" citizens; others (mainly blacks) felt that evidence showed that the
city's leadership not only had prior knowledge of the riot, but also
participated in it.

   My examination of the Ku Klux Klan rolls at the University of Tulsa's Special
Collection at McFarlin Library clearly showed that many Tulsans--doctors,
lawyers and judges, teachers and preachers, businessmen and bankers, as well as
musicians, entertainers, undertakers, brick masons, garbage collectors, farmers,
and working-class persons--supported the Klan at the time of the riot.

AIRPLANES AND CONSPIRACY

   For a long time, Tulsa has lived under the stigma that it was the only
American city to be bombed by its own military. The riot commission was able to
refute that error. Dick Warner of the Tulsa Historical Society did extensive
research on the airplane subject. Other military experts also provided
information and materials for the commission. By examining records, Warner was
able to establish approximately how many airplanes were in Tulsa at the time of
the riot, who owned them, and who flew them.

   At the same time, the commission was able to refute the claims of some
(mainly whites) that no airplanes dropped anything during the riot. According to
the evidence, airplanes did drop something on Greenwood. But what they dropped
were not World War I-type military bombs. The commission report refers to the
items dropped as "incendiary devices."

   Regarding the conspiracy theory and the role of the leadership in the
"bombing" of Tulsa's black community, black commissioners and the black
community in general firmly believe that there was collusion between leaders and
mobsters during the riot, especially regarding assaults that involved devices
dropped from the air. The bottom line is that "poor white ruffians"  [*87]
don't own airplanes and don't have the luxury of taking flying lessons!

BLACK PRIMARY SOURCES

   If I had to categorize the contentious issues in order of seriousness, the
role of black primary sources would be the number-one issue! All of us see
things through the lenses of our own culture. And the culture that has told the
history of our nation, and western civilization, is the predominant white
culture; naturally, people of that culture, that race, will be more comfortable
with their sources and skeptical of the unknown. Actually, there was no need to
be skeptical. Black accounts, written by the people most familiar with the Tulsa
Race Riot of 1921, the people who lived through it, and those who came to the
aid of the afflicted survivors of the ordeal, proved to be quite credible,
reliable, and helpful in documenting and validating the events that occurred in
Tulsa in 1921.

   Black commissioners, as well as some white commissioners who had a strong
background in civil rights issues and much knowledge of the black experience in
America--people like Jim Lloyd, Bob Blackburn, and Pete Churchill--took a strong
interest in the black source materials, much of it newly found. (Some of the
black documentation source materials came from my research in Washington, D.C.,
and Maryland in late October and early November 2000. Any commissioner who came
across black resource materials, or any other material that might be helpful in
the commission study, gladly shared all such information with the entire
commission.)

   It was a powerful experience to actually see, touch, and feel those fragile
documents dealing with one of the most stress-filled periods in U.S. history,
the era of lynchings, race massacres, and riots. Pulling up information on the
internet, or reading about history in libraries, etc. is no match for the
hands-on handling of historical documents! Among the documents that I examined
in Washington and in Maryland were:

   1. African Blood Brotherhood (ABB) materials dating back to the founding of
the organization and especially the materials pertaining to the Tulsa Race Riot
of 1921.

   2. National Association of Colored Peoples (NAACP) materials--historical
records, minutes, correspondence, etc. about the organization and its leaders.

   3. Urban League materials--historical records, minutes, correspondence, etc.
about the organization and its leaders.

   4. The National Negro Business League--historical records, correspondence,
including that from founder Booker T. Washington.

   5. The Liberty League--historical records and correspondence.

   6. American Labor Year Book documents.

   7. Miscellaneous documents and materials related to the 1920s era, such as
documents from insurance companies such as the Modern Woodmen of America, that
had a history of dealing with blacks at that time.

   The documents that fascinated me the most during this research in the
nation's capital were those of the African Blood Brotherhood, a self-help
organization founded in desperation in New York City. The ABB was determined to
protect black citizens, who were neglected by their local,  [*88]  state, and
national governments. ABB leaders traveled all over the United States,
counseling and organizing local chapters. On more than one occasion, leaders had
visited Oklahoma. A poignant letter, dated May 23, 1921, in the ABB collections
shows what the racial climate was like in Oklahoma at that date. W. R. Smith
lived at 641 North Third Street, Muskogee, at the time. He wrote the letter on
company stationery: W. R. Smith, J. F. Thompson Manufacturing Confectioners, 223
South Second Street, Muskogee, Oklahoma, Telephone 4830.

   In that hand-written letter, Mr. Smith poured out his heart and appealed for
help:


     We are appealing to you for aid in matter of lands allotted to the
     Freedmen of Okla. [Negroes of Indian blood] have been victims of the
     white man's exploitations and vicious conversions of land--minors and
     wards whose Guardians have sold lands of value and squandered the
     money. The courts indorse [sic] such activities.

   Letters such as this, and others from Tulsa, Oklahoma, regarding the
intolerable racial climate in Oklahoma at the time, brought members of the ABB
to Tulsa before and after the riot. (Some black survivors say that a few got
caught in Tulsa at the time of the riot.)

   There was fear and suspicion on the part of whites toward black organizations
and black leaders in the 1920s. And even in the era of the riot commission
study, we again had to fight that battle about credibility and validity. After
thoroughly examining the black documents and resources, and using the standards
of historiography in which we had been trained (four of the black commissioners
were trained historians, all with at least master's degrees and two with
doctoral degrees), we found the black documents just as credible as white
documents. We found 1920s black leaders and organizations just as credible as
their white counterparts. Their goals seemed reasonable, not revolutionary. They
were simply seeking their constitutional rights in their own nation.

THE STUDY'S AFTERMATH

   Although the commission did deal with some touchy issues, our work had
lasting positive results:

   1. Worldwide focus on Tulsa and the riot: recognitions, apologies, tributes,
plays, poems, songs, monetary contributions to survivors.

   2. Outpouring of love, respect, appreciation to the 167 living black
survivors, who became media celebrities; respect for and interest in the spouses
and descendants of deceased riot victims.

   3. Sincere appreciation for the riot commissioners' hard work and the final
report documenting the Tulsa race riot.

   4. Hunger, from local to international levels, for information about the
Tulsa Race Riot of 1921 and about racial conflict.

   5. National print and electronic media focus on Tulsa and the resulting free
public-relations boost for the city.

   6. Riot-focused healing and reconciliation programs all over the nation,
sponsored by political, economic, and social organizations, schools, churches,
and entertainment organizations, etc.

    [*89]  In conclusion, all the team members of the Oklahoma Commission to
Study the Tulsa Race Riot of 1921 took our duties seriously. We studied hard, we
thought hard, and we came to what we thought were the best conclusions possible
based on the evidence that we found.

   I feel that the commission was God-ordained. It was time for reconciliation
and racial healing. It was time for justice.

   To learn more about the commission or to read the full report, go to
http://www.tulsareparations.org/.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesRiot, Rout &
Unlawful AssemblyGeneral OverviewGovernmentsNative AmericansProperty
RightsMilitary & Veterans LawMilitary OffensesDueling, Provoking & Rioting


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Taxpayer is facing £100m bill for riot damage compensation

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 459 words


Compensation for property damage in the 2011 riots may exceed £100 million,
according to a report published yesterday.

More than £35 million has already been paid but a review of the Victorian law
covering such compensation suggests that the figure could rise. In addition to
this compensation from the taxpayer, by September there had been 2,254 claims
against insurance companies, worth £167 million, including £1.5 million claimed
by householders.

Disorder spread through London and several other English cities after police
shot dead Mark Duggan in Tottenham, North London, in August 2011.

Neil Kinghan, a former civil servant commissioned by the Home Secretary to
review the 1886 Riot Damages Act, called for reform to a piece of legislation
that requires the police to pay compensation for property damaged in a riot. He
said: "The Riot Damages Act is an important piece of legislation protecting the
public and businesses in the event of a large-scale riot but, at over 100 years
old, it is well overdue for reform.

"During my review I met a wide range of people affected by the riots and it was
clear that, while central and local government did their best, they were
hampered by a lack of preparedness both for the riots themselves and for the
demands for compensation they generated." Some of the money paid by private
insurers is included in the cost to taxpayers because the Act allows insurers to
be compensated for riot claims. Mr Kinghan said that compensation to insurers
should continue but should be capped, not applying to businesses with an annual
turnover of more than £2 million.

The report also recommends capping compensation to businesses and householders
who are uninsured, but said it should be extended to motor vehicles, which did
not exist when the Act was passed.

Mr Kinghan's report said that by April insurers had paid £131.6 million to
claimants.

Otto Thorensen, director-general of the Association of British Insurers, said:
"The recommendation that insurers should continue to be able to recover from the
State certain riot payments made to customers is vital if riot cover is to be
affordable and available."

He added: "However, we are concerned that the review recommends that insurer
recoveries from the State should be restricted to businesses that turn over less
than £2 million a year. This could be a disincentive for some larger firms to
locate in some areas."

The Home Office is planning to hold a public consultation on the proposals next
year.

Damian Green, the Minister for Policing, said that the riots had caused enormous
distress to a great many people and businesses. "The measures in the Riot
Damages Act provide a safety net but they have to be efficient and provide value
for money for the taxpayer," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman was forced to jump from a burning building in Croydon as
rioters set fire to shops
www.WENN.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

BYLINE: Tom Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; GENERAL; Letters; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 735 words


Descriptionof riots

SIR, - I think you'll find that First Minister Alex Salmond was quite correct to
point out (the Press and Journal, August 11) that the riots in England should
not be described as "UK riots". From what I've heard from friends, and comments
I've seen on social-networking sites, the vast majority of Scots appear to be
very much in agreement.

If the riots had taken place in Glasgow and Edinburgh rather than London and
Birmingham, they would have been described as Scottish riots, not UK riots.

Does it not tell us something about the mindset of the UK media that when
something happens exclusively in England it is automatically a "UK" problem,
even when no such problem exists in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland?

It's interesting to note that the BBC, which started off calling them UK riots,
is now correctly calling them English riots, after complaints from elsewhere in
the UK.

Douglas Daniel,

Morningside Avenue,

Aberdeen. Making comparisons

SIR, - While the riots throughout England cannot be condoned, perhaps we ought
to put things into perspective and consider how they pale by comparison with the
mayhem David Cameron and his cronies have caused in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq and
so on.

William Burns,

Pennywell Road,

Edinburgh. Effects of turbine arrays

SIR, - Donald Trump's complaints (the Press and Journal, August 11) about the
spoiling of his new golf links' views by sea-based wind turbines are fully
justified.

His references to the permanent ruination of his golf course's coastal outlook,
damage to wildlife and wasting of the tax revenues are a much sounder account of
the effects of wind turbine arrays than are the statements by Scottish
politicians, let alone by renewables interests.

Donald Trump's developments in the north-east are constructive inward
investments, whereas the wind turbine installations represent parasitism by
developers, landowners and predominantly foreign manufacturers.

This is based on the policies of politicians who, oblivious to a bad investment
for our nation, endorse and promote damage to our land, seascapes and finances
without useful returns in electric power.

A radical review of these electricity-generating policies is needed urgently for
the preservation of the natural beauty of our land and sea and our financial
viability.

Charles Wardrop,

Viewlands Road West,

Perth. Windfarmoff the coast

SIR, - Regarding Donald Trump's laughable artist's impression showing the
11-turbine windfarm proposed to be located one-and-a-half miles from the coast,
all I can say is be careful if you go paddling off the beach, you will more than
likely bump right into one.

Sue Arber,

North Balnoon Cottage,

Forgue. SNH as bat licensing authority

SIR, - While I have every sympathy with Alison Murray being driven out of her
Culter, Aberdeen, home by bats (the Press and Journal, August 9), the real
culprit in the story is Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH).

Recently, SNH took over from local councils as the bat licensing authority in
Scotland and yet, despite having had a year to prepare for this responsibility,
SNH has yet to formulate its policy on what mitigation measures will be
permitted on developments around bat roosts. Any policy will then have to be
legally ratified and SNH still has no idea when it will be in a position to
start doing its job.

My proposed purchase of a house in Aberdeenshire recently fell through because
SNH was unable to advise on what developments would be allowed around a roost of
Daubenton's bats.

Mitigation measures can be extremely intrusive, as you have to adapt your
accommodation around the needs of each particular species of bat. In one house
in England, the bats occupy a space larger than the master bedroom.

One member of SNH's species licensing team finally advised: "If you are so
concerned about this, perhaps you should look for a less problematical
property."

What a scandalous response.

Alastair Scott,

Blackford Glen Road,

Edinburgh.

Slimming secret of the present

SIR, - I refer to the letter (the Press and Journal, August 9) headed "Slimming
secret of the past", in which it was suggested that food rationing might have
been the reason that men and women pictured in old photographs in your Past
Times section all appeared to be slim.

There is no need for rationing in current times. The cost of food should make
everyone at least seven pounds lighter by the end of this year.

Christina M. Palmer,

Carnyx,

Aultvaich,

Beauly.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

90 years later, wounds from a race riot fester;
Efforts at reconciliation and restitution remain incomplete in Oklahoma

BYLINE: BY A.G. SULZBERGER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: TULSA, Oklahoma

ABSTRACT

Even as Tulsa, Oklahoma, observes the 90th anniversary of perhaps the deadliest
racial violence in U.S. history, the efforts to secure recognition and
compensation have produced a mixed success.

FULL TEXT

With their guns firing, a mob of white men charged across the train tracks that
cut a racial border through this city. A 4-year-old boy named Wess Young fled
into the darkness with his mother and sister in search of safety, and they
returned the next day to discover that their once-thriving black community had
burned to the ground.

Ninety years later, Mr. Young lives not far from where he lost his home that
day. He is part of the dwindling ranks of the living who can recollect what may
have been the deadliest occurrence of racial violence in U.S. history - an
episode so brutal that this city, in a bout of collective amnesia that extended
more than a half-century, simply chose to forget it ever happened.

The Tulsa race riot of 1921 was rarely mentioned in history books, in classrooms
or even in private. Blacks and whites alike grew into middle age unaware of what
had taken place.

Ever since the story was unearthed by historians and revealed in uncompromising
detail in an Oklahoma government report a decade ago - it estimated that up to
300 people had been killed and more than 8,000 left homeless - the black men and
women who lived through the events have watched with renewed hope as others have
worked for some type of justice on their behalf.

But even as the city observes the 90th anniversary, the efforts to secure
recognition and compensation have produced a mixed record of success.

The riot will be taught for the first time in Tulsa public schools next year but
remains absent in many history textbooks across the United States. Civic leaders
built monuments to acknowledge the riot, including a new Reconciliation Park,
but in the wake of failed legislative and legal attempts, no payments were ever
delivered for what was lost.

Before becoming president, Barack Obama once met with some who lived through the
riot ''to thank the survivors for surviving.'' But fewer are surviving each
year; today the number is about 40. And before they die, some of their most
dedicated advocates continue to fight for greater awareness and compensation,
even as they lament that they no longer believe the effort has sufficient
momentum.

Some, like Otis Clark, the oldest survivor of the riot, at 108, and one of those
who joined a U.S. government lawsuit seeking compensation, are at peace. ''God
has a whole lot of good things lined up for us when we're by his side,'' Mr.
Clark said. ''It ain't going to be very long before that is going to happen.''

All that remains of that black community of 90 years ago, Greenwood, is a block
of red-brick storefronts in a neighborhood transformed by a new minor league
baseball field, a university campus and an elevated highway. Metal plaques set
into the sidewalk describe the hundreds of businesses that were there when the
area was a bustling enclave in a statutorily segregated oil town. Within the
black community, it was known as the Negro Wall Street.

Long before black neighborhoods erupted in rioting in cities across America
during the 1960s and 1970s, several violent riots were started by whites in the
years after World War I. As with some of the others, the Tulsa riot seems to
have started with the explosive accusation that a black man had sexually
assaulted a white woman. (The charges were dropped after the riot.)

On May 31, 1921, hundreds of armed white men gathered outside the courthouse
where the man was being held, and a group of armed black men arrived to prevent
a lynching. A shot was fired. The black men fled to Greenwood, and the white men
gave chase.

The battle that ensued - enabled by the Tulsa police chief, who deputized
hundreds of white men and commandeered gun shops to arm them - lasted through
the night and well into the next day.

About 40 blocks were destroyed, including 1,256 homes, many of which had been
looted before they were set alight. The death toll, most likely never to be
fully determined, was estimated in the state report at 100 to 300. Survivors
were rounded up and interned by the National Guard. Many of the homeless spent
the following year living in tents pitched in the ruins of the neighborhood.

A grand jury at the time blamed the black community for the riot. No one was
convicted of participating in the riot; no one was compensated for lost
property. Soon after, the story essentially disappeared - buried so deeply that
people who lived their entire lives in Tulsa, including prominent leaders like
mayors and district attorneys, said they had never heard of the riot until
recent decades.

Don Ross is credited with helping to break that silence. A magazine he started
published the first article in decades about the riot, written by a local
historian around the time of the 50th anniversary. But it was not until 25 years
later, when Mr. Ross was a state representative, that the riot garnered
nationwide attention. He pushed for the formation of the state riot commission
that produced the report and became an unrelenting advocate for payments to the
survivors because, he explained, there is ''no money in apologies.''

The issue of payments to survivors, like those paid to the survivors of a
similar riot two years later in Rosewood, Florida, was always difficult.

The Oklahoma Legislature refused, saying it was constitutionally prohibited. The
U.S. courts dismissed a lawsuit on behalf of the victims, saying the statute of
limitations had expired. And efforts in Congress to remove that legal obstacle
have repeatedly failed, partly because of concerns that removing it might open
the door to reparations for slavery, though there are plans to reintroduce the
bill.

Still, awareness has been growing. Three-quarters of Tulsa residents in a recent
survey described themselves as very or somewhat knowledgeable about the riot.

On a national level, there is greater awareness, too. Of the three largest
school textbook publishers, one of them, Pearson, now mentions the riot in its
books; the two others, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and McGraw-Hill, do not, though
Houghton Mifflin says it is planning to include the riot in future editions.

At the Greenwood Cultural Center, home to an extensive exhibit on the race riot,
Mechelle Brown, the program coordinator, walked along the wall of photos of
survivors and gestured despondently - almost every month, another one dies.

''It seems at times that this is how it's going to end,'' she said, ''with the
survivors passing.''

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Lawmakers question origin of prison riot, future of inmates, prisons

BYLINE: James Rufus Koren, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 669 words


As state prison officials investigated the cause of the weekend riot at the
California Institution for Men in Chino, local leaders and lawmakers started
using the riot - which hospitalized 55 inmates - to frame the debate over a
federal order to reduce the state's overall prison population.

While some officials said the apparently race-motivated riot is evidence that
prisoners are dangerous and should be kept behind bars, others said the riot
shows how dangerous the state's overcrowded prisons have become.

"Without a doubt, given that racial tensions exist, they are only exacerbated by
the fact of our overcrowded prisons," said Sen. Mark Leno, D-San Francisco,
chairman of the state Senate Public Safety Committee. "This could happen at any
moment at any one of our overcrowded facilities. It would not take much to spark
it."

The Reception Center West at the Chino facility, where Saturday's riot took
place, was housing 1,280 men at the end of July. It was designed to hold only
about 615.

Assemblyman Curt Hagman, R-Chino Hills, vice chairman of the Assembly Public
Safety Committee, and other officials said Saturday night's violence is evidence
that California prisoners need to remain locked up, despite the order from a
panel of federal judges to cut the prison population by about 40,000 inmates.

"Prisoners don't need an excuse to riot," Hagman said. "That's why we cannot
release these people early."

Democrats are generally in favor of placing some non-violent and other
non-threatening inmates on house arrest rather than keeping them in prison - a
plan Hagman and other Republicans have dubbed "early release" and have said they
cannot support.

"What happened Saturday night is a perfect example of why these people should
not be released into the community, and why funding should be prudently spent on
making sure secure facilities are secure," said Burt Southard, spokesman for San
Bernardino County Supervisor Gary Ovitt.

Assemblywoman Norma Torres, D-Ontario, who, like Hagman, represents areas around
the prison, said the state still must look at so-called early release programs
to cut the prison population, though, unlike Leno, she declined to tie the
weekend's riot to overcrowding.

"The verdict is still out" as to the riot's cause, Torres said. "I don't know
that being overcrowded would have changed it or not."

Prison spokeswoman Terry Thornton said Monday that the riot's cause is being
investigated and that crowded conditions were not necessarily a factor.

Hagman, who was at the prison for several hours Saturday night, said the
facility's age, not its overcrowding, added to the riot's chaos.

The 40-year-old facility, he said, doesn't "have as much separation (between
inmates) as you do with traditional cells."

He said the close quarters allow more communication and coordination among
inmates.

"They pass notes back and forth," he said.

But Thornton noted that the state has prison facilities nearly a century older
than the Chino prison and that riots have occurred at every type of facility,
from minimum to maximum security.

"It just happens sometimes," Thornton said. "Hardly a day goes by when you don't
have two inmates fighting each other."

Hagman acknowledged that a new facility would not put an end to riots, but it
"might make (riots) more manageable."

The weekend riot started at about 8:20 p.m. Saturday and prison officials said
the facility was secured by 7 a.m. Sunday. Thornton said fighting continued
until about midnight.

Ovitt's office said prison officials haven't been forthcoming with details about
the riot and that neither the supervisor nor his staff had a clear picture of
what occurred at the prison over the weekend, other than it took a very long
time to get the situation under control, Southard said.

"We're not real happy right now with how long it's taken to get some accurate
information about what took place," he said.

"As of this moment, we still don't have a real good assessment from the state as
to what happened and what they're going to do about it."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Why hot summers mean more bother for police

BYLINE:  Jack Malvern

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.4

LENGTH: 408 words


Michael Jackson entreated people not to "blame it on sunshine" in his 1978 hit
Blame it on the Boogie, but scientific research suggests that his appeal was
misguided. Decades of analysis has shown that warmer temperatures are a
contributing factor in riots, road rage and the likelihood of Swedish bus
drivers crashing.

Most of the significant riots in Britain in the 1970s and 1980s began as
temperatures soared. Tensions that might have been contained spilled over into
running battles. The Notting Hill riots of August 1976 began as thermometers
recorded 19C (66F). The Toxteth riots, in July 1981, the Brixton riots of
September 1985 and the Handsworth riots in the same month all took place as
temperatures reached 21C. Rioting returned to Toxteth during the heatwave of
October 1985, when it was 27C.

The Oldham riots of 2001 began as the temperature at night was 18C.

Riots in America follow a similar pattern. Lance Workman, head of the Psychology
Department at Bath Spa University College, has linked hot weather to levels of
serotonin in the brain, which can cause aggression. "The majority of riots in
the USA occur when temperature increases to between 27C and 32C," he said. "When
the temperature goes over 32C, however, riots level off and begin to fall
because people become so hot they can't be bothered."

Violent crimes including murder, rape and domestic violence are also more likely
in the summer, research suggests. Murder rates in New York increased by 75 per
cent in the hot summer of 1988. A 1983 study of 50,000 rapes by the US National
Institute of Mental Health found that assaults peaked in July and August across
all 16 locations studied.

Richard Michael, an American psychiatrist, found in 1986 that "violence by men
toward women increases in summer independently of any major seasonal changes in
the opportunity for contact between perpetrator and victim".

Drivers are more likely to lose their temper in the heat of their cars. Douglas
Kenrich and Steven MacFarlane, a pair of British psychologists, found that there
was a direct relationship between temperature and impatience among motorists.
Their experiment involved pulling up at a set of traffic lights and failing to
move when the lights turned green. As temperatures rose, the time taken for
drivers to honk their horns diminished.

A Swedish psychologist at Uppsala University found that bus drivers were more
likely to crash on hot days.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

G2: Suzanne Moore: Pussy Riot, who face prison in Russia for their anti-Putin
protest, are a reminder that revolution always begins in culture

BYLINE: Suzanne Moore

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 873 words


Some people have their eyes on the prize. A prize beyond medals. That prize is
freedom, freedom of expression, freedom to protest. I am talking about Pussy
Riot, who are drawing the eyes of the world to what is happening in Russia.
Pussy Riot - crazy punks, yeah? No, they are not crazy, daft or naive. They are
being tried for blasphemy in what is still, nominally, a secular state. They are
highlighting what happens to any opposition to president Vladimir Putin and,
indeed, they do look fabulous. If you want to see protest as art or the art of
protest, look at these women.

Described as punk inheritors of the Riot Grrrl mantle, they are so much more.
They are now on trial in Moscow for a crime that took 51 seconds to commit.
Please watch it on YouTube. They mimed an anti-Putin song in the main Orthodox
cathedral wearing their trademark balaclavas and clashing colours. For this
"hooliganism " and "religious hatred", the three women have already served five
months in jail. They now face a possible seven-year sentence, in a country where
fewer than 1% of cases that go to trial end in a not guilty verdict.

Pussy Riot function symbolically as the head of a protest movement in Russia
that is being shut down. Bloggers have been arrested, and people are scared to
express any anti-Putin sentiment. Only state-sanctioned demonstrations are
allowed. The slide into dictatorship is apparent and, significantly, one of the
biggest benefactors has been the church, which has performed a massive "land
grab". Pussy Riot exist to draw attention to precisely what is so disturbing, a
totalitarian nation where the church and state are become one. Some have warned
that Russia is becoming a new entity, a Christian fundamentalist state. Members
of the Orthodox church have said the separation of the secular and the spiritual
is "a western idea". This what Pussy Riot are up against.

The women have been called Satanists by state prosecutors and various priests,
though their supporters paint them as sweet young mothers. Doubtless they are,
but they are also cleverly using long-established forms of anonymous anarchic
protest. The balaclavas mean anyone can be Pussy Riot. The Guerilla Girls in the
Art World did this. An anarchist "strike" once involved all of us writing with
the byline Karen Eliot. Occupy does it. The dull and respectable left too often
ignores the genius of these forms of dissent.

Indeed, as Tobi Vail of Bikini Kill, one of Pussy Riot's inspirations, says,
these methods of protest cannot be jailed. Their name itself is to oppose the
idea of the feminine as "receiving"; instead the female sex organ, they say, can
"suddenly start a radical rebellion against the cultural order". These women
have read everything from Simone de Beauvoir to Judith Butler and Rosi
Braidotti.

No wonder the patriarchs of Russia are worried. Pussy Riot have spread the word,
and the word is that their "great leader" resembles a Gaddafi or Kim Jong-un.
They have done so through a series of cunning stunts and are now recognised as
prisoners of conscience by Amnesty. Sting has worn a Pussy Riot T-shirt, though
I would prefer to see all the rock stars in balaclavas and for Madonna to get
one as soon as possible.

What Putin cannot stop, though, is a concept. Pussy Riot are essentially
conceptual artists. This is what makes them threatening - it is not possible to
imprison a concept. The celebration of rock and punk as anthemic that we saw
last week was lovely, but Pussy Riot are a reminder that revolution always
begins first in culture, in the radical act. In the society of the spectacle,
that act - Pussy Riot's sporadic performances - get YouTube hits and retweets.
In these days of Twitter shallows, remember it is the virtual world that has
pushed Pussy Riot into the spotlight and in the real world they are in prison.

If ever we needed an anarcho-feminist protest, it is now. But I would say that,
wouldn't I? Sure, the unimaginative can reduce this to "Punks against Putin" and
say these women have no manifesto. They are up to something else altogether:
making complicated points look simple. They are the opposition and they are
girls with guitars and knitted hats, not men with guns. This is wonderful.

For some, anarchism has always been an inherently feminist philosophy as it
opposes relationships based on power. Pussy Riot come from the country where
Bakunin argued against Proudhon for the equality of women and against the
authoritarian family. It is also the country of another woman who walked the
walk: Emma Goldman. She saw anarchic protest as a legitimate opposition against
government control. Of such protests she said: "It seems to me that these are
the new forms of life, and that they will take the place of the old, not by
preaching or voting, but by living them."

Pussy Riot are these new forms of life, even as they sit in

a cage - an actual cage - facing these ridiculous charges because Putin is
threatened. He should be. It cannot be said enough. We are all Pussy Riot.

This week:

Suzanne had her Olympian moment: "I met a lovely man in a bar who had been a
torch-bearer. He let me hold his torch. What more could you want?"

Captions:

Pussy Riot supporters protest in front

of the Russian embassy in Prague

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              March 4, 2012 Sunday

'Best alternatives may not often work'

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: India


India, March 4 -- Riots and After in Mumbai by Meena Menon provides a synoptic
record of communal violence in Mumbai, using a novel approach that combines from
Raj era (1893-1945) historical records and personal interviews of both Muslims
and Hindus living in the city. Excerpts from an interview by Books Editor Yogesh
Vajpeyi.

When did you decide to write the book?

The SARAI Independent Fellowship, from the Centre for the Study of Developing
Societies in 2007, provided the initial impetus. The objective was to recover
lost histories of the victims of post Babri Masjid-demolition riots of December
1992 and January 1993. After completing it, I decided to look back at the
history of communal riots in Mumbai by searching through archives. The uproar
over the lack of justice for riot victims and their families became sharper,
after that I decided to write the book.

Did you approach the issue as a historian or a journalist?

Basically as a journalist. But I tried to record statements of riot victims as
truthfully and objectively as possible and did extensive research at the
archives for over a year.

Did you approach the subject with pre-conceived notions?

No, the book is as much an exploration as a journey. It does not aim to offer
any answers, but actually raises more questions.

What was your understanding of the way the state dealt with the riots?

It definitely did not discharge its responsibilities with an appreciable sense
of commitment. The report on this by the Srikrishna Commission contains
voluminous evidence to support this view.

What about rehabilitation and reconciliation measures, after the riots?

In addition to the trauma, riot victims have to contend with the lack of
political will and continued apathy of the state to alleviate their plight.
Shakeel Ahmed, lawyer and activist with Nirbhay Bano Andolan, who has worked
with riot victims, said that 1,358 cases were closed after being found "true but
not detected". The Srikrishna Commission had asked for these cases to be
reopened, but the special task force that was set up scrutinised only 112 cases,
of which eight were reopened. Not a single state official indicted by the
commission has been suspended.

What did the 1992-93 riots do to the city of Mumbai?

These were the worst riots the city had seen. After them, for most Mumbai
residents, the city changed forever. These riots created displacement at an
unprecedented scale, resulting in worsening of communal polarisation.

Has Mumbai lost its cosmopolitan character?

Mumbai was perceived to be a cosmopolitan city. It still is in some ways, but
not in other ways. The city has been affected by dominant ideas of communalism
and nationalism, leading to division and strife. The hope in the minds is not
made up yet, giving the city that faint tinge of togetherness and
cosmopolitanism.

How can the cleavages be bridged?

I offer no solutions. When I heard Mahmood Mamdani, author of Good Muslim Bad
Muslim, talk of reconciliation and the South African experiment, and about a way
in which it could be a model for other communities in conflict, I wondered how
it could be applicable in India. Often, the best alternatives may not work, but
they seem to have realised that. The only thing I'm certain about is that more
violence cannot be the way out of a violent conflict. This is amply clear from
what is happening around the world, be it in Kashmir, Palestine, Afghanistan or
Iraq.

What are the hurdles?

Lack of political will. While there are attempts to bridge gaps between
violence-affected communities, there's been no real political process to bring
them to a middle ground. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday

Lebanese sources report negotiations to end prison riots

LENGTH: 444 words


As of 1400 gmt on 24 April, Beirut Lebanese National News Agency, official
government news agency; Beirut Al-Manar Television in Arabic, affiliated with
the pro-Iranian Hezbollah; Beirut Future News Television in Arabic, a pro-14
March Forces, anti-Syria, all-news channel, owned by Al-Hariri family, have
reported on the breakout of riots at the Rumyah prison in Beirut, the largest
prison facility in Lebanon.

At 1444 gmt, NNA correspondent Ilyas Shahin reported that a strike force has
entered the building where riots erupted in the Rumyah prison, which does not
house any of the Fatah al-Islam detainees or the four officers [who have been
detained in connection with the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq
al-Hariri].

Shahin earlier reported that riots broke out in the Central Prison of Rumyah,
noting that the inmates who were involved in the prison riots, held a number of
military members as hostages.

He added that an Anti-riot force, a Jaguars Force, and a strike force intervened
to quell the riots at a time when fire engines and Civil Defence personnel put
out a fire that broke out in the building.

At 1539 gmt, NNA correspondent Ilyas Shahin reported that the Lebanese security
forces restored calm in one of the buildings where acts of violence occurred,
noting that most inmates who were engaged in riots are Palestinians.

Al-Manar Television led its 1630 gmt newscasts with a report on the prison riots
against footage of smoke billowing from the prison premises.

The station said that the anti-riot police "continue to lay a siege on the
building where acts of riots were staged by approximately 300 prisoners earlier
today." The rioters, Al-Manar said, took seven security personnel as hostages"
at the prison facility."

The station added that Judge John Fahd, the government's representative at the
Military Court, headed to the prison facility at a time when negotiations
between the Police commander and prisoners are still underway.

The station cited "sources" as saying that the rioters are mostly Lebanese, not
Palestinians, as had been earlier reported.

On the demands of the prisoners, the station's correspondent Hakam Amhaz said
that the inmates demanded that the prison conditions be improved and their
sentences be reduced.

At 1905 gmt, the Future News Television's correspondent in the periphery of the
prison facility reported that negotiations are still underway between Judge John
Fahd and Basim al-Alayili who has been designated by the rioter inmates to
discuss the prisoners' demands. She added that "the decision to break into the
prison facility is still on hold pending the outcome of the negotiations."

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Reply: Response: We're not just a sounding board. We have a unique remit on the
riots: All three main parties have asked us to recommend ways to avoid any
future disorder, says Darra Singh

BYLINE: Darra Singh

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 509 words


After being interviewed by Alison Benjamin, I was disappointed that the full
remit of the independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, which I chair, was
not represented in her article (Will the riots panel change policy?, Society, 26
October).

On attending our public meeting in Croydon, south London, Benjamin observed: "It
was clearly a cathartic 90 minutes for many participants, which is no bad thing.
But it is doubtful it will have any impact on policy." We agree that talking
about people's experiences of the riots is cathartic; however, the panel is
simply not "just a sounding board" as she states. We are working to identify the
underlying causes and consider the response, which might have led to the riots
escalating in the way they did. Many organisations are doing their own, valuable
investigations into the causes of the riots. We are keen to learn from these
too.

Ultimately, the point of the riots panel is to understand and make clear
recommendations on how this country might avoid disturbances on the terrible
scale seen in August happening again. Naturally we'll spend the first phase of
our work listening. How else will we accurately reflect the views of the people
affected?

It's unfortunate that Benjamin doesn't reflect on the opportunity the riots
panel is offering for victims, often from marginalised groups and communities,
to make a real contribution to the final report we will present to government
next March.

In asking whether criticisms voiced to the panel will make any difference,
Benjamin could put off those affected by the riots from contributing. And she
says we should "come clean about (our) inability to affect change". The fact is,
we want to hear all views on the riots, and we'll report them without fear or
favour. Our grassroots approach is seeking to empower individuals and
communities to shape our recommendations. We are independent of government and
won't shy away from making policy recommendations where there is compelling
evidence to support them.

One of the main groups we're speaking to is young people. Benjamin says "there
were no young people at the Croydon meeting" she attended. Realistically, we
don't expect all young people to feel comfortable getting up and speaking at the
public meetings - despite some very articulate teenagers and young people doing
so at our recent meeting in Ealing. So we met with around 50 young people from
Croydon college the day before the meeting she attended to discover why they
thought the riots happened. We have several further similar meetings planned.

Ours is the only panel to have been directly asked by the prime minister, the
deputy prime minister and the leader of the opposition to explore the
motivations for the riots. Only we have cross-party support. The riots were very
serious disturbances with some tragic consequences, and government recognises
the need to learn lessons. Any recommendations we make will therefore need to be
taken seriously.

Darra Singh is chair of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel

riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Where were you when the English riots started?

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 696 words

ABSTRACT

Share your memories of last year's riots starting - tell us where you were and
your thoughts as the first anniversary approaches

FULL TEXT

Seeing the riots spread across London and then the country last summer isn't
something many will forget - from those directly involved and affected to those
following developments on news channels and social media.

To mark the upcoming first anniversary of the English riots and the second part
of the Guardian and London School of Economics's Reading the Riots study, we are
asking readers to look back at where they were at the time of the riots and how
they remember the events of last August.

Where did you first hear about the riots starting? From conversations on a bus?
Through a text from a friend? While travelling back home from a hen do? Where
were you living, how did you view the riots and have your thoughts about the
events changed in the last year? Do you think enough has changed to stop
something similar happening this summer?

Share your memories with us via the Google form below and we'll select the best
entries to be published on guardian.co.uk to mark the anniversary of the riots
on 6 August.

The Guardian's Sarah Bolesworth starts us off with her own memory of the night
of 6 August 2011 - she had been 10 minutes' drive from Tottenham when she heard
that a number of people were gathering on the High Road.

I was in a cinema with another journalist, and we decided to have a look. David
Lammy, the local MP, had been on the TV the night before, calling for calm as
speculation grew about how Mark Duggan had met his death. I was remembering Moss
Side in 1981, the riots I'd witnessed as a student - and thinking how similar
Tottenham felt. As we drove across the bridge where Duggan had died, a police
helicopter rose into the clear evening sky above the High Road.

There were a lot of people on the street - young families and people in their
20s and 30s coming out of the pubs, talking, then walking in a steady stream
towards the High Road. "What's happening?" I asked a guy walking next to me.
"They've set a police car on fire," he said. Then, growing angry: "The police
don't give a shit. They've disrespected Mark's family when they went to the
police station to ask what happened. And they told us last night they don't have
to tell you anything, so fuck off. They think they can treat people from
Tottenham like trash."

By the time we got to the High Street at 8.30pm, two cars, about 100 yards
apart, were alight. One, a glowing wreck like a grim Halloween lantern, the
other a police hatchback. There were about 200 people standing in groups,
talking, mainly on the junctions with side streets. The atmosphere was low-key,
watchful. We'd been diverted round a police block at the south end of the High
Road, but groups of younger people were now walking in from the north, some then
running, some shouting. Gradually the crowd coalesced and began moving with
purpose towards the police station.

This was the tipping point: had the police had any kind of plan and sufficient
staff to meet the challenge of what was now a crowd of about 300, the riot could
not have happened, and would not have been broadcast to the world as a signal
that in the cities of England, the contract between police and the policed was
invalid.

Light missiles were flying through the air - a black rubbish bag and plastic
water bottles. Whatever the police officers guarding the station were trained to
do, it surely can't have been what they did next - making feints at an oncoming
crowd; they were met with jeers and counterfeints from groups within the crowd.
Behind the frontline action, however, thieves were pushing in shop windows and
doors.

I'd filed by phone several times by now and other reporters were arriving.
Satellite trucks were in the junction by the road block, and the mood was
getting ugly: the riot had kicked in. When people started to hurl bricks at the
police station windows - which bounced back, the windows being made of plastic,
we decided to take cover.

Alternatively, you can leave your memory in the comments section below - and
read more on the Guardian and LSE's findings about the riots here.

_

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday

Break a leg or two: the stage was always set for running riot

BYLINE: FINTAN O'TOOLE

SECTION: WEEKEND; Arts & Books; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 995 words


CULTURE SHOCK:Mass disorder and the theatre share a deep connection that harks
back to a time before luvvies, when theatres were seen as public spaces

THE BEST PLACE for a good riot is a theatre. The left likes to imagine rioting
as the oppressed rising up against the oppressors, and the right sees it as
evidence of the moral decay of society. But there s a long history, in Dublin
and London, of theatrical rioting. Indeed, to my knowledge, the longest and most
sustained riots in both cities in the past three centuries happened in and
around theatres. This surely says something about the nature of both theatre and
riots.

In his  Impressions of England 1809-10, the Swedish traveller Erik Geijer wrote
of the ubiquity of the enigmatic slogan OP in the London of those years:  There
were hats with OP on them. An OP medal was struck which was worn on the breast
during the struggle. There were OP fans, OP handkerchiefs, OP waistcoats and
caps. OP was inscribed on all the walls in London . . . I have heard children
who had scarce learned to speak amusing themselves by shouting OP.

And what was OP? Old prices.

The OP riots would seem to be the longest in London s history. They ran for an
extraordinary 67 nights in the autumn and winter of 1809, in and around Covent
Garden theatre. Their cause was the reopening of the theatre after a fire. To
recoup the expense of rebuilding the theatre, the manager and leading actor,
John Philip Kemble, put up admission prices, from six to seven shillings for the
boxes and from three shillings and sixpence to four shillings for the pit. On
the opening night, in September 1809, a  great mob  descended on the theatre,
paid in and staged a riot. They kept it up at every performance until
mid-December, when Kemble capitulated, apologised and restored the old prices.

The OP riots are fascinating, because they developed into a kind of
countertheatre. The audience members didn t just disrupt Kemble s performances,
they staged their own display. In the auditorium, they did the OP dance,
performed with deliberate and ludicrous gravity, each person pronouncing the
letters OP as loud as he could, and accompanying the pronunciation of each with
a beat or blow on the floor or seat with his feet, a stick, or a bludgeon .

In Dublin, too, the most sustained riots were in and around the main theatre,
Smock Alley. There were three serious riots there while the theatre was managed
by the actor Thomas Sheridan (father of the great Richard Brinsley). The most
significant of these began in 1747, when a Trinity College student, Edward
Kelly, attempted to mount the stage to indecently assault one of the actors,
George Anne Bellamy. Sheridan remonstrated with Kelly. When Kelly continued to
insult him, Sheridan replied,  I am as good a gentleman as you are.  In
subsequent argument, Sheridan broke Kelly s nose, but it was his claim to be a
gentlemen that became the flashpoint for six weeks of rioting that spread from
the theatre to Trinity and other parts of the city. Sheridan was vindicated but
not for very long: there were more riots at Smock Alley the following year and
in 1754, when the theatre was finally wrecked and Sheridan was driven into
exile.

In the 19th and 20th centuries, too, the main riots in Dublin were in theatres.
There was the so-called Bottle Riot in 1822, when Orangemen staged a violent
demonstration inside the Theatre Royal against the lord lieutenant, the marquis
of Wellesley. And, in the early 20th century, there were the infamous riots at
the Abbey against Synge s  The Playboy of the Western Worldand O Casey s  The
Plough and the Stars.

Why were there so many riots in theatres? Because, firstly, theatres were
understood to be public spaces. Whether these riots are seen to be justified or
deplorable, they shared a sense that the theatre was not private, that what went
on there was part of the order of society. The OP rioters, as well as being
incensed about the new cost of entrance, were aggrieved that Kemble s new
theatre had more private boxes and was therefore potentially excluding more
working- and middle-class members of the audience.  The Playboyrioters, for all
their philistinism, believed the  wrong  theatrical image of the Irish peasantry
did genuine harm to the nation.

Beyond this, though, there was a sense that the theatre is a space with an
ambivalent relationship to order and disorder. On the one hand, a theatre is a
rule-bound, conventional space. It has physical laws (you must sit quietly in
your seat during the performance) and psychological laws (you must accept that
these pretences are in some sense real). On the other, its purpose is to play
with perceptions and assumptions, to unleash buried emotions and dark thoughts.
The belief is that these two things will somehow balance each other out, that
the theatre will be a rule-bound space in which dark things can be safely
unleashed. But it s not a large step to forget the rules and concentrate on the
unleashing bit.

Finally   and this is why theatrical riots are worth remembering   there is a
deeper connection between mass disorder and the theatre. Riots have all sorts of
origins and purposes, from the political to the recreational. They can arise
from an emotion as hot as anger or as cold as boredom. But once they get going,
they always acquire an element of theatricality. They are about creating a
public spectacle, and they involve a great deal of showing off to one s peers.
When commentators talk of rioters making a show of themselves, they re right in
more ways than one.

Theatre audiences are far too respectable to riot nowadays. They don t have that
passionate sense of the theatre itself as a public space. And though one would
not wish to encourage a return to such disorderly conduct, something is lost.
Theatre riots were unpleasant, but they were almost always contained and
relatively nonviolent. Without theatres for people to behave disgracefully in,
riots have fewer boundaries.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                National Edition

Media 'incited' riot crowd: police

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER . Vancouver police are refuting allegations they had advance warning
of the Stanley Cup riots that rocked the city in June, instead accusing the
media of "inciting" crowds to take to the streets.

The department issued a statement Friday denying reports that police were given
a heads-up about the riot during a conversation with officials from the Liquor
Control and Licensing Branch three days before the violence erupted.

The emails between police and liquor officials were released under Freedom of
Information and reported on by the website The Tyee.

In them, liquor board general manger Karen Ayers wrote to deputy solicitor
general Lori Wanamaker about a conversation with liquor-enforcement officials,
ambulance and hospital personnel and several Vancouver police officers,
including Deputy Chief Doug Le Pard, to discuss serious alcohol problems in the
city's downtown and warning that all downtown liquor stores should close early
on the day of Game 6.

"We are expecting record crowds as this may be the deciding game, and given the
escalating problems, intoxication, violence and pre-riotous behaviour," she
wrote, "I have made a decision ... to close all liquor stores in the downtown
Vancouver core at 4 p.m. tomorrow evening."

But on Friday, Vancouver police said the reports they had "received information
from the Liquor Control and Licensing Board that there would be a riot are
simply wrong and untrue."

Instead, police blamed media that "choose to inflame the rhetoric about the riot
based on wrong information, as we were originally concerned by stories and
reporters who beat the drum most loudly, inciting crowds to gather in the first
place."

In a Sept. 6 police review of the force's response to the riot, the department
wrote that: "Prior to game seven, there was no substantiated intelligence that a
riot would occur, no concerns were raised by planners, command staff, or other
VPD officers that there would be a riot. Further, there were no public phone
calls made to the VPD, no reports from school liaison or youth officers that
kids were talking about a riot, no reports from outlying police jurisdictions,
Transit Police, or other public safety partners that a riot was likely, and
nothing credible appearing on social media sources of people organizing to riot
."

It has been 100 days since the riot and no charges have been laid; police said
on Thursday that they expect to charge as many as 40 people next month. As many
as 70 people have now turned themselves in, thanks to photos of suspects posted
on the Vancouver police website.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rich Lam, Getty Images Files; Vancouver police said that reports they
had "received information ... that there would be a riot are simply wrong.";

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                             May 21, 2016 Saturday

Riot police gearing up

BYLINE: Ashraf Javed

SECTION: Vol. 30 No. 79

LENGTH: 824  words


The government is planning to raise an anti-riot force for the provincial
metropolis where the police have to handle 10-15 law and order like situations
on a daily basis.

The special police unit, a replica of the Istanbul's Riot Police Unit, will be
made operational in August.

The move comes almost two years after the city police had shot and killed at
least 14 protesters during an operation in Lahore's Model Town.

More than 85 people were also wounded during the clash as the policemen opened
gunfire on the violent mob, triggering anti-government protests across the
country in June 2014.

Officials say the mega city needs such a unit as people farmers, workers,
paramedics, teachers and officials throng to the capital from other districts to
get their protest registered.

Authorities believe the new unit will be trained specifically to negotiate,
control, and disperse mobs.

The squad would follow the standard operating procedure on the pattern of the
Turkish national police to ease tension.

Police sources say that at least 42 officers, including six policewomen, are
getting training in Turkey.

After the completion of their training, the Master Trainers would impart
training to 3,000 cops.

DIG (Operations) Dr Haider Ashraf yesterday told The Nation that the
establishment of anti-riot unit is part of the initiatives being introduced in
the province to build the police capacity.

The DIG said that the force would also be given training to use water cannons,
laser and stun guns, and teargas.

The riot cops will be equipped with latest shields and sticks, he said, adding
that the team would be made fully operational in Lahore on August 14.

The Turkish national police are training the Punjab policemen how to control
lawlessness like situation.

This police force will respond to protesters technically and precisely in case
the mob sets afire a building, they start pelting the police with stones or they
forced their entry into a plaza.

According to insiders, the existing staff of the city police doesn't even know
how to use the water cannons.

The poorly trained staff is unable to tackle violent protests.

The past experiences revealed that the untrained policemen often overreacted and
their actions brought bad name to the department.

In March 2013, a mob enraged over alleged blasphemy set on fire a number of
houses belonging to Christians in Lahore's Badami Bagh.

There was no casualty as members of the Christian community, including women and
children, had left the neighbourhood after police advised them to do so.

A church and several shops were also torched by the mob.

The violence targeting minorities brought international condemnations because of
the poor police response.

Early this year, Punjab chief minister Shahbaz Sharif had announced the
establishment of a special police unit on the pattern of the Istanbul Riot
Police Unit to deal with protesters.

The chief minister stated that the Punjab province would benefit from the
experience of the Turkish National Police in the setting up of Riot Police Unit.

There will be a separate uniform for officers of the Riot Police Unit, the CM
had announced.

A police spokeswoman yesterday said that the anti-riot force unit and the
mounted police would definitely add a new vigour to the country's largest law
enforcement agency.

She said that at least 3000 policemen had been selected for the anti-riot unit.

Similarly, the provincial police have also purchased 92 horses for patrolling
purposes as the stables were already repaired.

Keeping in mind the bitter experience of Model Town tragedy, the provincial
government decided to develop a full-fledged anti-riot unit to deal with the
political activists.

The officials of the new unit would be equipped with riot gear to help protect
themselves and attack the miscreants.

Instead of official guns and pistols, the anti riot unit would be given personal
armor, batons, riot shields, riot helmets and less-than-lethal weapons such as
tear gas and rifles that fire rubber bullets, said Haider Ashraf, who leads the
Lahore's operation police.

This year the provincial government has introduced different schemes to improve
the police working and to build the capacity of policemen.

The recently launched Dolphin police force and the Police Response Units are
part of these initiatives.

The high-tech command, control, and communication system will be made
operational in the metropolis, most probably by the first week of October.

The first-ever security surveillance system in Lahore is part of the Safe City
project to be completed with an estimated cost of Rs10 billion.

All the police patrolling units including Dolphin Force, Police Response Units,
and Mobile Squads would be inserted into the integrated system.

The state-of-the-art command, control, and communication system is being
established at the Qurban Police Lines in Lahore.

Many security and IT experts are engaged by the authorities to fine tune the IC3
project before its launching.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

'Race riots' as American as apple pie

BYLINE: By Donald Kaul

SECTION: LOCAL1

LENGTH: 570 words


What started out as righteous protest over the death of a young black man in the
hands of Baltimore cops (he had been accused of "making eye contact with a
police officer") quickly degenerated into a full-scale riot. By nightfall the
city was on fire, its hopes for a better tomorrow in ruins.

City officials blamed "thugs" and "outsiders" for the disaster. But in another
sense it was an uprising, a desperate act of defiance by young people who feel
increasingly that they have nothing left to lose.

You're going to arrest them? So what. Chances are you're going to arrest them
anyway, sooner or later. They know that. It's what we do to black people in our
society.

It's not as though what happened in Baltimore was unique or even unusual in our
nation's history. Race riots, as we used to call them, are as American as
baseball and apple pie.

I grew up in Detroit, which is kind of Ground Zero for racial war. The Ossian
Sweet riot in 1921 was triggered by a black doctor trying to move into a
formerly white neighborhood.

The Detroit riots of 1943 grew from rumors of the rape of a white woman by black
men on Belle Isle, a public park. In 1967, a riot started with a police raid of
an after-hours joint in the black section of town. The city suffered damage,
both physical and human, from which it has yet to fully recover.

New York can almost match Detroit riot for riot. The New York riots of 1863
started out as a protest against the draft but eventually morphed into a
murderous attack on all blacks in lower Manhattan.

The Harlem riots of 1945, immortalized by Ralph Ellison in his great novel The
Invisible Man, exploded over the cops beating a black man accused of
shoplifting. The 1964 Harlem riots were touched off when the police shot a black
15-year-old.

The 1968 "Martin Luther King" riots swept the nation after the assassination of
the black civil rights leader.

Can you spot a pattern here? This country is so replete with riots that most
Americans don't know about the Tulsa riots of 1921, in which hundreds of black
men and women died and as many as 10,000 were rendered homeless when a white mob
burned a prosperous black neighborhood to the ground.

These incidents aren't isolated occurrences or the work of thugs and outsiders.
They're related chapters in the ongoing civil war between white society and the
majority of the black population.

After each major uprising someone appoints a commission, which eventually comes
up with recommendations. For the most part the recommendations are good ideas:
strengthen schools, offer more job training, step up affordable housing, improve
community policing. But the track record on following through on them is bad.

I don't denigrate the civil rights movement and its success, its long list of
distinguished black politicians, doctors, lawyers, diplomats, teachers. But our
country has failed to address the systemic plight of young black men trapped in
poverty.

Those young men have as little in common with President Barack Obama as they do
with Mitch McConnell.

We depend on our police to keep a lid on things by whatever means necessary and
we put an appalling percentage of our black youth in jail, often rendering them
unable to vote or even be considered for a decent job.

Predictably, from time to time, a riot ensues. So the establishment blames thugs
and outsiders, then sets up another commission.

OtherWords columnist Donald Kaul lives in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

Riot and despair

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 599 words

ABSTRACT

Unless London and its leaders make serious attempts to understand why the riots
occurred, the future does not look good

FULL TEXT

I returned from holiday last Friday and since Saturday night my feet have hardly
touched the ground. The London riots weren't far from my front door, with some
of the most serious disorder occurring just down the road from my home in
Hackney. My heart has been heavy too, partly because of the terrifying events
themselves and partly because of the response to them from politicians, which
has been trite at best and mostly self-gratifying. Some, like the worst of the
media, have gone out of their way to demonise intelligent debate about why this
devastating breakdown of the capital's social order occurred.

The people who've suffered most in recent days deserve better from their
leaders. "Criminality, pure and simple," just isn't good enough, as even those
asserting it must know. "It's the cuts," doesn't cut it either, though a feeling
among have-nots that they are being billed for the greed and misconduct of the
haves has surely fed contempt for authority in all its forms. Arguments that
parental authority has been eroded or that absent fathers explain the misconduct
of young males run up against the problem that feral youths often come from
feral homes, or that their fathers when present can be a bad influence.

There is no easy diagnosis for this disorder, and its real cure will not be some
desperate increase in police numbers or a boost to their "surge" capacity, to
use the worryingly military language David Cameron deployed in the Commons
yesterday. Does anyone really believe that the criminal subculture and
opportunist mentality that have burst from London's shadows in recent days can
simply be policed out of existence? As an uneasy calm replaces the mayhem and
admirable fellow Londoners clean up, we need to think hard about how we ended up
where we are and where we might be heading if we don't get a grip. Doing that
will require long-term commitment and a fearless application of the intellect.
Don't hold your breath.

The Guardian on the riots









London blogosphereFrom Motown of south London:

I'm really angry about ALL of those involved. Those that are causing the
trouble, have no respect for innocent people - homes and cars are being
destroyed - there can be no excuse for that. As in Walworth where the damage
didn't (during the time I was there) involve fire or damaging people's property,
the fact that shops were ransacked still made me mad. It wasn't just chains that
were targetted, independent shops were hit too, they can't afford these losses
and many will go out of business....

I'm also really annoyed with the police....Although things have definitely got
better over the years, it just seems there are so many things that could be
improved very easily...After the shooting of Mark Duggan, the truth should have
been put out straight away. Rumours were leaked to the press that he had shot at
the police first, when the police officers on the scene (and any witnesses - the
cab driver for example) knew this wasn't the case.

There's more. So .

Coming upWho knows? .

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                              June 1, 1997, Sunday

Camera failure saves rioters

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HELLABY D

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 380 words


BECAUSE security cameras failed, police have been unable to immediately identify
the prisoners involved in April's Woodford Jail riot.

The camera failure has made finding the ring leaders of the riot difficult.

Police have been unable to determine how many of the more than 300 prisoners at
Woodford on the night of the riot were involved in the uprising.

A spokesman for Prisons Minister Russell Cooper confirmed there had been a fault
in the cameras in the high security area during the riot.

He said the problem had been identified in the report on the riot to the
Government.

But hand-held video had been taken of the riot.

Senior police said, however, none of the video was any good.

Security cameras in the prison oval also failed because of insufficient
lighting.

As a result, the 30-member detective squad investigating the riot had to
interview at least 400 people, many of them hard core criminals already serving
long sentences.

Head of the Corrective Services Investigation Unit, Det Insp Bob Pease, said
there were 307 prisoners at Woodford on the night of the riot, but not all were
involved.

"The failure of the security cameras has inhibited our investigation," he said.

"We could not identify a single prisoner from security video tape.

"It is even difficult to say exactly how many prisoners were involved in the
riot."

Charges definitely would be laid against some prisoners.

"We are in the process of analysing and collating all the evidence," he said.

The investigation is being wound down and there are now only six detectives
working on it.

Initially, all 15 detectives assigned to the Corrective Services Investigations
Unit and 15 from Crime Operations were assigned to the case.

The riot on April 1 is estimated to have caused at least $4 million worth of
damage to the newly-opened high security prison.

Corrective Services Commission chief Keith Hamburger lost his job as a result of
the riot and the recriminations that followed.

The damning report into the riot pinpointed the failure of Corrective Services
to act on warnings a riot was being planned by hard core prisoners.

There has also been criticism that the opening of the jail had been rushed and
that Woodford had not been ready to take high security inmates.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Lack of robust police response led to more riots'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 638 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across England, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recommendations in our report." The interim report from the panel detailed the
"sometimes horrifying and tragic" accounts of people's experiences of the
disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims of the riots receive compensation quickly.

The panel had not heard from anyone who had received a payment under the Act,
with forecasts that by March 2012 "barely half" of the smallest and only one in
10 of the largest claims will have been paid.

The report called for the insurance industry to tackle cases where service has
been poor.

It also said stop and search needed "immediate attention" to ensure community
confidence was not undermined. This followed complaints from many people that
police stop and search was "consistently" carried out without courtesy.

Victims should be able to confront rioters who committed crimes against them,
the report said, and service personnel who protected communities at "great risk"
should be honoured.

There should also be "clear plans" to help cut the risk of reoffending by
convicted rioters, the report added.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person. The final bill could
reach around pounds 500m, including up to pounds 300m of claims under the Riot
Damages Act and pounds 50m costs to police, the report said.

Communities Secretary Eric Pickles welcomed the report.

"The riots which took place in our towns and cities in August were shocking acts
of criminality which ruined businesses, brought destruction to our streets and
made people feel unsafe in their own homes," he said.

"But we also saw the law-abiding majority reclaiming the streets by protecting
friends and neighbours, and helping with the recovery.

"As the Prime Minister stated in the aftermath of these disturbances, it is
vital that we fully understand and tackle the root causes and do what we can to
prevent the scenes from being repeated."

The Association of British Insurers (ABI) rejected criticism of the insurance
industry.

Nick Starling, ABI director of general insurance, said: "We do not accept that
insurers have not performed well in response to the August riots.

"Insurers pulled out all the stops to help policyholders affected and expect to
pay out around pounds 200m to help people get back on their feet."

In a lengthy response to the report, the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) said
it had supported the work of the panel, including providing interviews with
officers involved in the policing of the disorder.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                                August 17, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Twitter rumours of Brentwood 'riots'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 308 words


RUMOURS of the London riots spreading to Brentwood were circulated on Twitter on
Tuesday last week. Zoe Douglas reports. ¦ WileyArtist Wiley Listen if you live
in brentwood and you aint seeing nothing go wrong on your streets be quiet its
not gona come there....... ¦ Bradw93 Bradley White Omfg it's going off in
Brentwood!!! Lol joke just got waved at by CSO's who said they were bored #riots
¦ joelevell Joe Levell Rumours of riots spreading to Shenfield...for what? Lot
75 and Shenfield bakery? Daft. Stop it now. Protests are fine but this is
mindless.

¦ lukecullinane1 luke cullinane Please no riots in brentwood we have enough
snits as it is thanks ¦ kaz_yellow Karun Chhokar Were all commenting about the
riots whilst innocent people are being affected, people in Brentwood don't
realise how good they've got it ¦ TimHembrough: If anyone starts trashin up
brentwood, i will personally go out in my cricket helmet and bat... ¦
CharlieeeGreen Charlie Green Somone riot in brentwood so i can get a new TV and
some kfc ¦ jordanodonoghue Jordan O'donoghue "If the riot moves to Brentwood we
won't have weapons we'll have hairspray cans and acrylic nails at the ready"
loooooooolllllllll ¦ ryanreevess Ryan Reeves well if the rioting occurs in
shenfield...i have no doubt i will be taking a visit to William Hill to take a
roulette machine #roy ¦ Ches_James Wreckineyezchesjames Why would they riot in
shenfield highstreet what they gna do rob the card shop :s ¦ heydzas dzastina.
There's riots in brentwood now?! Swear its meant to be a tottenham thing..
#awkward ¦ ChazMackaz Charlotte Mackenzie i think there's a fire at subway in
brentwood, i'm not even joking, not from riots though, purely a kitchen fire ¦
SamanthaLouiseB Samantha Bruty Riots in Romford, i'm glad all of my cats are in
the house. it's heading to harold hill now. then brentwood

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOOTING: Rioters attack an electrical shop in Croydon
Photo by Sam Collyer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BRG


                        Copyright 2011 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday

Sports riots shatter race myth about violence

BYLINE: Mike Seate

LENGTH: 459 words


I can always tell when a column I've written contains a great deal of truth --
no one much chimes in to comment.

Tuesday's column about my white neighbors in Sewickley who were passing around
an urban legend claiming black Americans would riot across the nation if
Illinois Sen. Barack Obama didn't get the Democratic nod for president elicited
only a few e-mails.

One was a pitch to join the Obama campaign. Others contained messages like this:

Hey Mike,

Why are you so shocked about the blacks rioting comments -- as if they don't.
How about starting with the Rodney King riots, Martin Luther King assassination
riots in the Hill, Chicago riots, riots in Ohio a couple of years ago. Why are
you denying the obvious? I am sure that the blacks involved in the above
mentioned riots discussed their rioting beforehand. When was the last time you
saw a group of whites riot over anything?

-- John

John's contention that blacks riot unlike other races ignores history.

After the 2000 NBA championship win by the Los Angeles Lakers over the Indiana
Pacers, more than 10,000 fans left Staples Center, set fire to two police cars
and fought with police for hours after the game. Given the price of NBA tickets,
I'm guessing these rioters weren't from Compton.

Similar incidents followed NBA games in Denver -- a town where blacks make up
just 11.5 percent of the population -- and Chicago. Yet we tend not to recall
instances when white folks riot.

The white student body majority at West Virginia University rioted after its
football team's Oct. 22, 2003, victory over Virginia Tech. Students put down
their books and picked up bricks and bottles of lighter fluid earlier that year
when the Mountaineers lost to Miami in the Orange Bowl.

According to a recent study by the Web site Education Portal, WVU's student body
is just 3.5 percent black. With so few black students on the WVU campus, how do
folks like our letter writer explain those two ugly episodes?

According to Todd Crosset, a sociologist and professor of sports studies at the
University of Massachusetts who was interviewed in the student newspaper The
Daily Collegian, the riots follow a long, scripted tradition.

"It's a masculine cultural product," he said. "It's part of the mentality that
comes to us from mob lynching. They were big community affairs where people did
violence."

Crosset's assertion that riots at many universities are driven by young, white
males echoes other studies done across the nation.

So I'm sure there's plenty that poor, disenfranchised black folks could get
angry about and riot. A lack of jobs and the staggering economic disparities in
our region would appear to be possible motivations.

They appear to be more legitimate causes to riot over than sporting events.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                                October 23, 2011

'Village culture' meant no riots

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the
causes of the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city
remained trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.


A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the causes of
the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city remained
trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.

Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough MP David Blunkett organised the visit so
the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel's members could 'learn about
what the city has done so right to avoid the rioting that affected many parts of
the country'.

Sheffield is the largest city in England in which no trouble occurred.

Sheffield Council leader Coun Julie Dore, who met the panel, said: "I believe
the riots didn't happen in Sheffield because of the city's culture as a big
village which is very inclusive and cohesive.

"There is a lot of work that goes on through the council, police and voluntary
sector with all members of the community."

Coun Dore said a major factor in keeping Sheffield trouble-free had been efforts
by police to get to know youngsters in areas hit by postcode gang problems in
the past had helped break down barriers with young people.

The panel, chaired by Darra Singh, met council chief executive John Mothersole,
Mr Blunkett, council officers working on community cohesion and civic pride, and
South Yorkshire Police.

Mr Blunkett said: "Together with Sheffield Council, I was pleased to invite
Darra Singh and his fellow members of the Riot Communities and Victims Panel to
Sheffield to talk through the lessons that can be learnt from a city that did
not experience the devastation and disturbances of August.

"Not only did Sheffield avoid this year's riots, but the city was also free of
the riots of 1981, 1985 and those 10 years ago in many northern cities."

Mr Singh, who chairs the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said:
"The Riots Communities and Victims Panel is travelling the country, speaking to
a range of people including residents, businesses and young people to gather
evidence about their experience of the riots.

"As part of the Panel's work, we are interested in finding out what could have
been done differently to manage or prevent the riots and why they happened in
some areas and not others. That's why we have visited Sheffield , as a large
city that didn't have any rioting.

"I am interested to find out first hand what measures they had in place and what
steps they took to prevent the riots from affecting their community, keeping the
city free of trouble.''

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSTE


                       Copyright 2011 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                                October 23, 2011

'Village culture' meant no riots

LENGTH: 404 words



HIGHLIGHT: A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the
causes of the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city
remained trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.


A PANEL set up by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg to investigate the causes of
the summer's riots has visited Sheffield to examine why the city remained
trouble-free when disorder flared across Britain.

Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough MP David Blunkett organised the visit so
the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel's members could 'learn about
what the city has done so right to avoid the rioting that affected many parts of
the country'.

Sheffield is the largest city in England in which no trouble occurred.

Sheffield Council leader Coun Julie Dore, who met the panel, said: "I believe
the riots didn't happen in Sheffield because of the city's culture as a big
village which is very inclusive and cohesive.

"There is a lot of work that goes on through the council, police and voluntary
sector with all members of the community."

Coun Dore said a major factor in keeping Sheffield trouble-free had been efforts
by police to get to know youngsters in areas hit by postcode gang problems in
the past had helped break down barriers with young people.

The panel, chaired by Darra Singh, met council chief executive John Mothersole,
Mr Blunkett, council officers working on community cohesion and civic pride, and
South Yorkshire Police.

Mr Blunkett said: "Together with Sheffield Council, I was pleased to invite
Darra Singh and his fellow members of the Riot Communities and Victims Panel to
Sheffield to talk through the lessons that can be learnt from a city that did
not experience the devastation and disturbances of August.

"Not only did Sheffield avoid this year's riots, but the city was also free of
the riots of 1981, 1985 and those 10 years ago in many northern cities."

Mr Singh, who chairs the Independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said:
"The Riots Communities and Victims Panel is travelling the country, speaking to
a range of people including residents, businesses and young people to gather
evidence about their experience of the riots.

"As part of the Panel's work, we are interested in finding out what could have
been done differently to manage or prevent the riots and why they happened in
some areas and not others. That's why we have visited Sheffield , as a large
city that didn't have any rioting.

"I am interested to find out first hand what measures they had in place and what
steps they took to prevent the riots from affecting their community, keeping the
city free of trouble.''

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSTE


                       Copyright 2011 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Rivals launch attack on Salmond

BYLINE: By Paul Gilbride

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 455  words


ALEX Salmond was caught up in a row yesterday as he sought to distance Scotland
from the rioting in England's biggest cities.

The First Minister said he was frustrated that the four days of unrest were
being characterised as UK riots when they had nothing to do with Scotland.

Mr Salmond took to the air in a move aides said was to prevent copycats and
protect the country's GBP 11billion-a-year tourism industry after some foreign
governments warned their citizens that visiting Britain was dangerous.

Both the BBC and Sky changed their headlines to "English Riots" following
representations from the Scottish Government.

But opposition politicians accused the SNP leader of trying to make "political
capital" from the violence.

Critics also questioned why Mr Salmond had failed to issue a statement of
solidarity with riot victims south of the Border.

His administration has tried to involve itself in incidents as diverse as the
Norwegian gun massacre, the Japanese and New Zealand earthquakes and Northern
Ireland water shortage with offers of aid and expressions of sympathy.

The row erupted as it emerged that police from Scotland were being sent to
England to help combat riots and disorder. A total of 250 riot-trained police
have been sent under the mutual aid scheme between the countries.

However, Mr Salmond stressed that Scotland would not be left unprotected, with
more than 17,000 officers available for duty.

He said: "We know we have a different society in Scotland. One of my
frustrations yesterday was to see the events being described as riots in the UK.

"Until we have a riot in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and
other English cities."

A storm also erupted on Twitter when his comments were echoed by recently
elected Nationalist MSP Joan McAlpine, who said Scotland should be "proud" that
it was riot-free and ready to welcome "peaceful visitors".

David Mundell, the Scottish Office minister, said: "It is a parochial and petty
view to say he was frustrated by media talk of 'riots in the UK' as if that was
the most pressing issue we face."

Labour MP Tom Harris said: "It is pathetic Saltire-waving when we should be
showing solidarity with people in the rest of Britain."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, expressed his "disappointment and
embarrassment" at Mr Salmond's "small-minded" reaction to the riots.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie claimed the comments were the
"worst face of nationalism".

An SNP spokeswoman said:

"The fact is that these riots are not taking place across the UK, but are so far
confined to London and other English cities. We extend sympathy and support to
our friends and neighbours, but saying they are UK-wide might just encourage
idiots and thugs here."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond complained of 'UK riots' tag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The bluffer's guide; Everything you need to know for a dinner-party conversation
about ... Sports riots

BYLINE: The Gazette

SECTION: SATURDAY EXTRA; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 764  words


So, what happened? Part of Ste. Catherine St. around Mackay was trashed on
Monday night and early Tuesday morning when a mob ran riot after the Canadiens
trashed the Boston Bruins 5-0 to move to the next round of the Stanley Cup
playoffs.

Glad you avoided calling these halfwits 'fans.' Lots of people have made the
same point. Canadiens regalia seemed in short supply in the pictures and video.
As everyone was asking afterwards: "Who are these people?"

Right. Can't blame the club. No, but it's safe to say that if there had been no
game on Monday, there would have been no riot.

True. So we can class this as a hockey riot, then? 'Fraid so. And, of course,
it's part of a long and dishonourable history of riots. For a long time, they've
plagued most sports, not just hockey.

So, we're not so special! Wouldn't go that far. In most of the world, if you
said "sports" and "riot" in the same sentence, the third word would be "soccer."

Right! We're amateurs. True, but if you Google sports riots, Wikipedia's list
shows that hockey disturbances make up four of the top 17 riots.

And soccer....? OK. Five.

We're not so far behind, then. No, but soccer riots can be really serious. One
of the most traumatic was the Heysel tragedy of 1985 at the European Cup final
in Belgium when Liverpool fans rushed Juventus fans who, allegedly, had taunted
and spat at them. In the melee, 39 Italian fans died. English teams were banned
from Europe for five years.

Wow. We ARE amateurs. Thank goodness. On the other hand, two of the four
Wikipedia-listed hockey riots were in Montreal.

It sure was a black eye for our city. It was. The spectacular footage of police
cars on fire was shown around the world.

What makes people do stuff like this? That's what everyone was asking. The
obvious answer is that it was an unhappy combination of booze, testosterone and
tension and excitement that gripped the city tightly. Even casual fans were
swept up by it.

An explosive mix. But what turns normal exuberance into such a disaster? We'd
have to turn to some learned folks for that. An article in the online Cato
Journal (www.cato.org) suggests that a number of factors must be present to turn
a large gathering into a riot. It says "One must understand the causes of social
rage, usually said to be racism, poverty, lack of economic opportunity."

Did that have anything to do with Monday? Unlikely, although some have pointed a
finger at anarchist groups that seem to turn up at any tense situation to cause
trouble. The article wonders why a July 4 gathering in Chicago attracts a
million people, many of them racially discriminated-against and economically
deprived, and yet there is no trouble. It also talks about how difficult it is
to stage a riot. Of course, it was written in 1994 when the Internet was in its
infancy. Now, the 'net and cellphone texts can produce a flash mob with
startling efficiency.

Montreal can do big, peaceful crowds, too. Yes, that would be the Jazz Festival,
where huge open-air concerts can attract up to 100,000 with nary an incident.

So this type of trouble is just about sports? Many observers think the Rocket
Richard Riot in 1955 was more about a sense of grievance by francophones than
about the fact that local hero Richard had been suspended for some undeniably
violent behaviour against the Bruins. The fact that the oh-so-anglo league
president Clarence Campbell then had the nerve to turn up at the next game at
the Forum was what ignited the tinder box.

Any other examples of a sports riot being about more than sport? The Christie
Pits riots in 1933. This was about something a lot more serious than a softball
game at Toronto's Christie Pits between St. Peter's and Harbord Playground.
Skirmishes erupted between Nazi supporters and Jews. After the game the Nazis
unfurled a swastika and the Jews reacted. Fighting went on until the early
hours. Police responded slowly and there were only five arrests.

Wow. Who won the game? Very funny. St. Peter's 5-4.

Of course, we had riots the last two times we won the Stanley Cup. True. In
1986, the police were found to be woefully unprepared. In 1993 there was a much
bigger police presence but it was not enough to prevent disturbances. It isn't
just us, though. One of the ugliest hockey riots was in Vancouver in 1994 after
the Canucks lost the seventh game of the final to the New York Rangers.

Ha! That shows how superior we are! How come?

We only riot when we win. Right. Again, very droll.

So here's the question for discussion. Would you be willing to see the Habs lose
against Philadelphia if it means peace on the streets?

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                This Day (Lagos)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday

Jos - From Tin City to Massacre City [analysis]

BYLINE: Taiwo Olawale

LENGTH: 678  words

DATELINE: Lagos


Once again, Jos, the Plateau State capital, is up in flames. This is the second
time in as many months that the town would be engulfed in deadly ethno-religious
strife since the beginning of this year. The once popular tin city is fast
becoming Nigeria's riot city. But it was not always like this.

Jos used to be one of the most peaceful and tourism friendly cities in Nigeria.
The city used to be the model of ethno-religious tolerance in the country. These
days, however, it is becoming one of the weakest links in the country's fragile
ethno-religious balance. Though most people would trace the genesis of the
problems to the April 12, 1994 riots that all but tore the Plateau State capital
apart, some believe the genesis lies in the 1991 creation of Jos North Local
Government Area by military President Ibrahim Babangida.

One thing that is certain, however, is that the reasons for the present crisis
are traceable to the January 2010 riots. These are themselves traceable to the
2008, 2001 and 1994 riots. And, the underlying reason for all 'the reasons'
"that may be given is that Jos is in the lethal grip of desperate 'power
mongers" who are bent on seizing control of the political future of the city.

These "power mongers" hide under religion and ethnicity to kill and maim fellow
Nigerians. And, as usual with such scenarios, they have ready tools in the army
of hungry and frustrated citizens living in the slums of the city. They also
have co-conspirators in high places as well as in all segments of society who
see what is happening as a war between "us and them."

The April 12, 1994 riot was the first deadly one witnessed in Jos. The remote
and immediate causes of the riots have remained the same ever since. According
to the Whitepaper on the Hon. Justice J. Aribiton Fiberesima Commission of
Enquiry set up to investigate the crisis, the most discernable cause of the riot
was the "Recurrent friction for many years between the Berom, Anaguta, and
Afizere tribes on the one hand, and the Hausa-Fulani tribes on the other hand."

The report noted that, "Each part lays claim to Jos. The Berom, Anaguta, and
Afizere claim that they are the indisputable indigenous people of Jos, that the
Hausa-Fulani are settlers, strangers, who migrated into Jos for various reasons
which include commerce, employment and repair of fortune. But the Hausa-Fulani
contend that they, as owners of Jos, had had the privilege of producing the
rulers of the town since way back in 1902."

The appointment of a council boss became the tinder box that lit up the city of
Jos in a 12 hour orgy of violence on the 12th of April.

An uneasy calm reigned until September 7th 2001 when violence erupted again. The
same tension that existed before 1994 was the remote cause. This time round,
however, the riots took a more frightening dimension as religion crept onto the
agenda and the orgy of violence continued for five terrifying days.

The immediate cause, as in 1994, had to do with local government politics. There
were disputes over council elections and for two days from November 28, Jos was
on fire. Lives and properties were destroyed in the senseless orgy of violence.

Riots broke out again on Sunday, January 17. This time around, the immediate
cause arose directly from the 2008 riots. A man who had returned to rebuild his
home was said to have been attacked and the madness began all over.

Just yesterday, another riot broke out. Women and children are among the
casualties. In fact, a traditional ruler was quoted as saying the latest riots
are evidence of man's inhumanity to man. But, even while a federal government
commission of enquiry is still trying to unravel the causes of the 2008 riots,
Jos has witnessed two fresh riots.

When the dust clears after yesterday's unrest, the remote and immediate causes
would, no doubt, be traced to the same reasons identified after the 1994 riots.
There would be a lot of blame-sharing and finger-pointing. But would this be the
last riot? Will those who should take action do so? When would the madness on
the Plateau end, soon?

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

China's Xinhua news agency discusses reasons for UK riots

LENGTH: 933 words


Text of report in Chinese by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 10 August: The large-scale riots that began in the British capital
London on the night of 6 August and quickly spread to the whole country have
caught the British government and police unawares. It was not until 10 August
that British Prime Minister David Cameron came out to say that the situation in
London was basically under control. However, in Manchester, Salford, Liverpool,
Nottingham, Birmingham and other cities, small-scale riots still continued.

Why did a riot mainly staged by young people almost went out of control and
spread to so many cities? The reasons are worth our reflection.

1. Slow Reaction by Government

The riots which started in Tottenham in northern London did not receive
sufficient attention from the British government at the beginning. An obvious
case in point was that Prime Minister David Cameron, Home Secretary Theresa May
who is responsible for public order and London Mayor Boris Johnson still
continued their vacations abroad when the riots first broke out and did not
return to London until things were getting out of control. Before their return,
officers of the city's inadequate police force had to "run around putting down
fire" like firefighters as the riot spread outside London.

The British mainstream media and people have their own views on the performance
of their government. The Financial Times pointed out in an article that Cameron
was too tardy in his understanding of the gravity of the situation. The latest
poll by YouGov shows that the majority of British people thought the
administration handled the riots "very badly."

2. Inefficient Handling by Police

Some analysts noted that the riots in the past few days showed that the number
of police officers involved in putting down the riots was obviously inadequate.
Moreover, the police seemed reluctant to take strong measures against rioters.

Some officers of the London Police disclosed that before the riots almost went
out of control on the night of 8 August, the order they received was to "stand
and watch" rather than to respond with force. It was not until the situation
took a sudden turn that the police changed their tactics and agreed to send
armed vehicles to dispel rioters in some areas.

The plans of the British government to slash public spending have had adverse
effects on the law-enforcement capability of the police. A London police officer
who spoke on condition of anonymity complained that due to the shortage of
funds, thrift is the overriding consideration for all police moves and there are
now very few police officers on duty on Saturdays. Taking advantage of this,
law-breakers first staged their riots in Tottenham last Saturday night (6
August).

3. Mobile Phone Networking Sites Make Stormy Sea Stormier

Some people noticed that the use of wireless means of communication and the
Internet made the stormy sea stormier in the spread of the London riots.

Stephen Kavanagh, Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the London Police, said some
of the messages posted on "Twitter" were "inflammatory" and "inaccurate." He
said the police were conducting investigations into these and users of this
networking site may be punished by law for inciting violence.

After 7 August, messages like "let's smash our way into shops and help ourselves
to the goods," "create confusion and take what we want" and other inflammatory
messages began appearing on mobile phones of young people in various parts of
London. The time and place for assembling to do all these were also announced.

Emma Duncan, deputy editor of The Economist, pointed out that Blackberry phones
are very popular among young people in Britain and Blackberry's messaging
service has become a means for organizing riots. "Events in the past few days
have made it clear that technology has no moral. While bringing us convenience,
it may also disturb the stability of our nation," she reminded us.

4. Multiple Reasons Behind Riots

After the large-scale riots in London, Britons from all walks of life and world
public opinion were all looking for the reasons behind all these events.
However, there is no unanimous view on this so far.

Dr Tobias Feakin, director of home security at the Royal United Services
Institute for Defense and Security Studies in Britain, said when interviewed by
Xinhua reporters that the development of events has gone beyond everyone's
imagination. People discontented with society saw the chance and started rioting
and making troubles.

Left-wingers headed by former London mayor Ken Livingston attributed the
escalation of tension in some areas to the policy of public spending cuts,
particularly welfare spending on young people, pushed by the coalition
government since taking office. Some analysts said that although the riots
appeared to be sudden turns of events and the perpetrators lacked obvious
targets and aspirations, the crux of the problem still lies in the widening
rich-poor gap in the British society. Through these riots, we can see that the
European debt crisis is slowly changing Europe's political ecology and security
situation. The European economy is slipping into a crisis in the course of
globalization and governments are forced to tighten spending, cut welfare
programs and increase tax. With growing inflation, people living in the lowest
stratum of society have difficulty making ends meet. Social contradictions are
becoming more conspicuous and there is rising discontent with the government!

Source: Xinhua news agency domestic service, Beijing, in Chinese 0546gmt 11 Aug
11

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

The riot-prone cities

                                  May 15, 1999

Marianne Kearney in Jakarta


INDONESIA IN TRANSITION

The riot-prone cities: Surabaya, Jakarta, Bandung

A university study predicts which cities will be most prone to violent clashes
before and during elections

INDONESIA'S major cities of Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung are the most riot
-prone parts of the country just before and during elections, a study released
by University of Trisakti social scientists show.

The study placed the East Java city of Surabaya as the most prone, while East
and North Jakarta, the Sumatran capital Medan, West and Central Java, and
Malang, in East Java, were rated as high-risk areas.

It predicted possible disturbance sites by mapping social stability, the divide
between rich and poor, as well as the pattern of past disturbances.

Many analysts have expressed fears that Indonesia's first democratic elections
in more than 30 years will be marred by violence.

Although the official campaign period will not begin until next Thursday,
supporters of rival parties have already clashed in several cities across Java,
leaving several people injured.

Most foreign embassies have advised tourists to avoid Indonesia during this
period.

The researchers warned that the presence of security forces, not student
protests, was a major factor in creating riots.

Said Mr Hermawan Sulistyo, one of the researchers:

"If you want to know how to create a riot, then send the military to a
demonstration because we have statistical evidence that this is what turns a
demonstration into a riot."

The research was also a warning to the government: When protesters were allowed
to continue with their demonstration, riots were prevented.

But he added that the number of previous riots in an area was an important
factor when predicting future disturbances.

The researchers said that eastern Aceh, South Sumatra, Central Java and the riot
-torn islands in Maluku were the areas with the most cultural and religious
tensions.

However, prominent social commentator Emil Salim criticised the study for
failing to show "the deep-seated causes of riots".

He said understanding the motivation behind the riots was more important than
predicting where they might occur because "if we understand the causes, we can
move towards managing conflicts".

Citing the protests and riots last May, which led to the downfall of Mr Suharto
and killed 1,200 people, and last November's demonstrations, where students
calling for an investigation into the former president's wealth were shot by
security forces, Mr Emil said it was impossible to draw conclusions about future
conflict from such different riots.

Conflict during the election period could only be avoided if party leaders
accepted responsibility for it, because it was their followers who created
disturbances, he added.

He commented that controlling party supporters during the polls would be a test
of the leaders' power.

"If it is possible for party leaders to manage this conflict, then maybe they
can lead a nation because leading a nation is about leading conflicting groups,"
he added. Well-known activist and playwright Ratna Sarumpaet criticised the
parties for "fighting with each other while offering us nothing".

Mr Emil said the research material could be used by the parties to work out the
areas of most conflict between them.

He said, for example, that if a clash between Muslims and Christians was
predicted for a certain area, then parties representing those groups should talk
about ways of preventing conflict.


SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 587 words

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 The Straits Times Press Limited


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

The riot-prone cities

                                  May 15, 1999

Marianne Kearney in Jakarta


INDONESIA IN TRANSITION

The riot-prone cities: Surabaya, Jakarta, Bandung

A university study predicts which cities will be most prone to violent clashes
before and during elections

INDONESIA'S major cities of Jakarta, Surabaya and Bandung are the most riot
-prone parts of the country just before and during elections, a study released
by University of Trisakti social scientists show.

The study placed the East Java city of Surabaya as the most prone, while East
and North Jakarta, the Sumatran capital Medan, West and Central Java, and
Malang, in East Java, were rated as high-risk areas.

It predicted possible disturbance sites by mapping social stability, the divide
between rich and poor, as well as the pattern of past disturbances.

Many analysts have expressed fears that Indonesia's first democratic elections
in more than 30 years will be marred by violence.

Although the official campaign period will not begin until next Thursday,
supporters of rival parties have already clashed in several cities across Java,
leaving several people injured.

Most foreign embassies have advised tourists to avoid Indonesia during this
period.

The researchers warned that the presence of security forces, not student
protests, was a major factor in creating riots.

Said Mr Hermawan Sulistyo, one of the researchers:

"If you want to know how to create a riot, then send the military to a
demonstration because we have statistical evidence that this is what turns a
demonstration into a riot."

The research was also a warning to the government: When protesters were allowed
to continue with their demonstration, riots were prevented.

But he added that the number of previous riots in an area was an important
factor when predicting future disturbances.

The researchers said that eastern Aceh, South Sumatra, Central Java and the riot
-torn islands in Maluku were the areas with the most cultural and religious
tensions.

However, prominent social commentator Emil Salim criticised the study for
failing to show "the deep-seated causes of riots".

He said understanding the motivation behind the riots was more important than
predicting where they might occur because "if we understand the causes, we can
move towards managing conflicts".

Citing the protests and riots last May, which led to the downfall of Mr Suharto
and killed 1,200 people, and last November's demonstrations, where students
calling for an investigation into the former president's wealth were shot by
security forces, Mr Emil said it was impossible to draw conclusions about future
conflict from such different riots.

Conflict during the election period could only be avoided if party leaders
accepted responsibility for it, because it was their followers who created
disturbances, he added.

He commented that controlling party supporters during the polls would be a test
of the leaders' power.

"If it is possible for party leaders to manage this conflict, then maybe they
can lead a nation because leading a nation is about leading conflicting groups,"
he added. Well-known activist and playwright Ratna Sarumpaet criticised the
parties for "fighting with each other while offering us nothing".

Mr Emil said the research material could be used by the parties to work out the
areas of most conflict between them.

He said, for example, that if a clash between Muslims and Christians was
predicted for a certain area, then parties representing those groups should talk
about ways of preventing conflict.


SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 587 words

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 The Straits Times Press Limited


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Rivals launch attack on Salmond

BYLINE: Paul Gilbride

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 459 words


ALEX Salmond was caught up in a row yesterday as he sought to distance Scotland
from the rioting in England's biggest cities.

The First Minister said he was frustrated that the four days of unrest were
being characterised as UK riots when they had nothing to do with Scotland.

Mr Salmond took to the air in a move aides said was to prevent copycats and
protect the country's £11billion-a-year tourism industry after some foreign
governments warned their citizens that visiting Britain was dangerous.

Both the BBC and Sky changed their headlines to "English Riots" following
representations from the Scottish Government.

But opposition politicians accused the SNP leader of trying to make "political
capital" from the violence.

Critics also questioned why Mr Salmond had failed to issue a statement of
solidarity with riot victims south of the Border.

His administration has tried to involve itself in incidents as diverse as the
Norwegian gun massacre, the Japanese and New Zealand earthquakes and Northern
Ireland water shortage with offers of aid and expressions of sympathy.

The row erupted as it emerged that police from Scotland were being sent to
England to help combat riots and disorder. A total of 250 riot-trained police
have been sent under the mutual aid scheme between the countries.

Solidarity However, Mr Salmond stressed that Scotland would not be left
unprotected, with more than 17,000 officers available for duty.

He said: "We know we have a different society in Scotland. One of my
frustrations yesterday was to see the events being described as riots in the UK.

"Until we have a riot in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and
other English cities."

A storm also erupted on Twitter when his comments were echoed by recently
elected Nationalist MSP Joan McAlpine, who said Scotland should be "proud" that
it was riot-free and ready to welcome "peaceful visitors".

David Mundell, the Scottish Office minister, said: "It is a parochial and petty
view to say he was frustrated by media talk of 'riots in the UK' as if that was
the most pressing issue we face."

Labour MP Tom Harris said: "It is pathetic Saltire-waving when we should be
showing solidarity with people in the rest of Britain."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, expressed his "disappointment and
embarrassment" at Mr Salmond's "small-minded" reaction to the riots.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie claimed the comments were the
"worst face of nationalism".

An SNP spokeswoman said: "The fact is that these riots are not taking place
across the UK, but are so far confined to London and other English cities. We
extend sympathy and support to our friends and neighbours, but saying they are
UK-wide might just encourage idiots and thugs here." OPiNiON: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond complained of 'UK riots' tag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Rivals blast 'parochial' Salmond

BYLINE: Paul Gilbride

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 459 words


ALEX Salmond was caught up in a row yesterday as he sought to distance Scotland
from the rioting in England's biggest cities.

The First Minister said he was frustrated that the four days of unrest were
being characterised as UK riots when they had nothing to do with Scotland.

Mr Salmond took to the air in a move aides said was to prevent copycats and
protect the country's £11billion-a-year tourism industry after some foreign
governments warned their citizens that visiting Britain was dangerous.

Both the BBC and Sky changed their headlines to "English Riots" following
representations from the Scottish Government.

But opposition politicians accused the SNP leader of trying to make "political
capital" from the violence.

Critics also questioned why Mr Salmond had failed to issue a statement of
solidarity with riot victims south of the Border.

His administration has tried to involve itself in incidents as diverse as the
Norwegian gun massacre, the Japanese and New Zealand earthquakes and Northern
Ireland water shortage with offers of aid and expressions of sympathy.

The row erupted as it emerged that police from Scotland were being sent to
England to help combat riots and disorder. A total of 250 riot-trained police
have been sent under the mutual aid scheme between the countries.

Solidarity However, Mr Salmond stressed that Scotland would not be left
unprotected, with more than 17,000 officers available for duty.

He said: "We know we have a different society in Scotland. One of my
frustrations yesterday was to see the events being described as riots in the UK.

"Until we have a riot in Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and
other English cities."

A storm also erupted on Twitter when his comments were echoed by recently
elected Nationalist MSP Joan McAlpine, who said Scotland should be "proud" that
it was riot-free and ready to welcome "peaceful visitors".

David Mundell, the Scottish Office minister, said: "It is a parochial and petty
view to say he was frustrated by media talk of 'riots in the UK' as if that was
the most pressing issue we face."

Labour MP Tom Harris said: "It is pathetic Saltire-waving when we should be
showing solidarity with people in the rest of Britain."

Iain Gray, the Scottish Labour leader, expressed his "disappointment and
embarrassment" at Mr Salmond's "small-minded" reaction to the riots.

Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie claimed the comments were the
"worst face of nationalism".

An SNP spokeswoman said: "The fact is that these riots are not taking place
across the UK, but are so far confined to London and other English cities. We
extend sympathy and support to our friends and neighbours, but saying they are
UK-wide might just encourage idiots and thugs here." OPiNiON: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alex Salmond complained of 'UK riots' tag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 24, 1985

Riot charges review ordered / Attorney-General Havers queries prosecution of
coal miners

BYLINE: By MALCOLM PITHERS and PAUL KEEL

LENGTH: 459 words


Sir Michael Havers, the Attorney-General, is to ask for an informal report from
prosecuting solicitors who have been dealing with riot charges brought against
miners during the pit dispute, to see what lessons can be learned from them.

The Attorney-General's office confirmed this yesterday after increased
speculation that no further riot cases are to be proceeded with. The South
Yorkshire prosecuting solicitors' office said that all riot cases they were
handling were under 'active review.'


It is known that 139 cases of riot and unlawful assembly are pending, arising
out of the strike in South Yorkshire.

The official listing shows that 22 men were charged with riot and unlawful
assembly at the Orgreave coking plant on June 6 last year and a further 55 at
Orgreave on June 18. Forty of these have yet to be heard.

At Armthorpe, near Doncaster, on August 22 last year 10 men were charged with
unlawful assembly; at Brodworth between October 12 and 19 a further 17 men were
charged with unlawful assembly; and at Rossington on November 12, 10 men were
charged with riot.

So far there has not been a successful conviction for riot by a jury.

During the dispute 137 miners were charged with riot and 509 with unlawful
assembly. According to the Home Office yesterday, there were a total of 9,808
arrests. Of the 5,653 cases dealt with, there were 4,318 convictions and 1,335
acquittals.

A spokesman for the Attorney-General's office confirmed yesterday that Sir
Michael will be calling for a report into the various cases but not before they
have been completed. The spokesman said that the exercise was a way of examining
exactly how cases were handled. It is thought that one topic which will be
discussed is how evidence of riot is gathered and substantiated in court.

Some defence lawyers believe that police are paying the price in court for
having used the riot law during the strike. One, Ms Gareth Peirce, who
represented 16 miners at Sheffield, said she thought the police probably gave
little thought to the eventual prosecution when they originally charged miners
with riot.

Even before the miners' strike, police had experience of difficulties in gaining
convictions on riot charges. In the trial of 16 people after the disturbances in
the St Paul's District of Bristol in 1980, not one was found guilty of riot.

The Prosecution's difficulty is that when the conduct of an individual whom
police arrested for rioting is examined in court, his contribution to overall
crowd disorder is rarely easy to prove.

Police are aware of this and are looking forward to proposed changes in public
order legislation which, they believe, will make it easier for them and the
courts to gain convictions.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   City A.M.

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shops bounce back in August despite effect of the riots;
RETAIL

BYLINE: TIM WALLACE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 247 words


SHOPS across London have bounced back despite last month's riots, according to a
survey released today.

While footfall across the UK fell by 1.5 percent in August,s this was the most
modest year on year decline for the month since August 2007.

And London's consumers defied the riots, with footfall in the capital increasing
by 0.9 per cent compared with August 2010.

Surprisingly, areas worst affected by the riots like Croydon saw enormous growth
of 14.9 per cent, according to the Springboard's high street index. Ealing, also
hit by riots, saw footfall spike by 9.3 per cent.

The riots had only a short term impact, according to Springboard. London saw a
decline in footfall of 6.2 per cent on the weekend of 6 August, when riots
started in Tottenham, and 1.7 per cent over the following week. By the next
weekend, though, annual footfall was up four per cent.

Nationally, the picture is more varied.

Shops in riot-hit Nottingham experienced a 7.9 per cent increase in footfall,
whilst it fell by 24.8 per cent in similarly disrupted Birmingham.

Diane Wehrle, research director at Springboard, said: "The figures showed an
initial dip as the riots struck in Greater London, but what's really positive is
that by the following weekend, shoppers were back out in force - even more so
than during the same weekend in 2010."

"The riots have affected a number of individual businesses." said Springboard
CEO Steve Booth, " yet there appears to have been little impact on overall
performance."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CAM


                            Copyright 2011 City A.M.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Incarceration of innocent people in communal riots rocks Vidhan Sabha

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 17 -- The issue of communal riots rocked the Vidhan Sabha during
question hour on Monday over incarceration of innocent people for their
involvement in the Muzaffarnagar riots leading to noisy walkout by both BJP and
BSP members. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Mohammad Azam Khan said that
just two communal riots took place in the state since March 2013 and till date,.
"Two communal riots took place in that period. The Muzaffarnagar riots took
place in 2013 and Saharanpur riots in 2014. The other incidents were criminal
clashes," the minister said while answering a question of Nadim Javed (Congress)
and Suresh Rana (BJP.

Giving details of the Muzaffarnagar riots the minister said that 477 cases were
registered in which 1359 people have been made accused. Altogether 1046
criminals have been arrested and action have been taken against 1349 people. In
Saharanpur 237 cases were registered in which 229 people have been made accused
and 99 of them have been arrested, Khan said. However, Nadim Javed alleged that
the government was trying coverer up its failure by projecting communal clashes
as criminal incidents because in the same period Central government records say
that 247 communal riots took place in the state.

But the minister maintained that the Central record also say that in 2013 the
number of communal riots were 247 and in 2014 it came down to 140 while in other
places particularly in the BJP ruled states the number has gone up. Azam Khan
even said that Congress was responsible for Ayodhya demolition which led to
bitterness in relations between minority and the majority community.

BJP member Suresh Rana said that around 500 innocent people who have been jailed
after Muzaffarnagar riots should be released as most of them are senior
citizens. He also claimed that police registered case against nine people who
are already dead. But the minister did not commit anything on the issue which
forced the BJP to stage a walkout.

The BSP also staged a walkout alleging that Muzaffarnagar riots accused were
being given police protection. East UP: Demanding a separate budget for the
eastern UP Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal (BJP) said that this region of the state
was the most backward in all the parameters including education, health and
infrastructure development. Raising the issue during zero hour he said that the
ratio of number of primary schools in one lakh population is least in eastern UP
as compared to other three regions of the state. The State GDP of Eastern UP is
Rs 21,283 while it is Rs 38,500 in west UP, Rs 30,726 in Central UP and Rs
36,304 in Bundelkhand.

Similarly the CD ratio in eastern UP is 25 per cent while it is 52 per cent in
Bundelkhand, 54 per cent in West UP and 46 per cent in Central UP. This shows
the money save in eastern UP is used in development of other states, he said.
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Md Azam Khan said that the government will take
action to bring parity among all the four regions of the state. .

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

L.A. TECH;
Riot Games is in no rush for 2nd title;
After a decade, it still has only one offering -- the blockbuster 'League of
Legends.'

BYLINE: Paresh Dave

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words


More than 100 million people play "League of Legends" each month, making it the
world's top PC game.

But the milestone, which was reached sometime in the last year and announced
Tuesday, does little to settle questions about developer Riot Games' growth pace
and when it might finally launch a second game.

The Los Angeles company continues to scuttle ideas for a next act and is
struggling to propagate an against-the-grain culture across a growing workforce.
Credited for turning video games into an almost-mainstream sport in recent years
through its hit "League of Legends," Riot also is considering transforming its
role at the center of e-sports -- a position it has described as "awkward."

Co-founders Brandon Beck and Marc Merrill must wrestle with these issues as they
lead their company into another decade. As part of 10th anniversary celebrations
this month, they spoke to the Los Angeles Times at their office, looking back
and forward.

" 'League of Legends' for so many people has become a shared language and
passion and that to us is really motivating," said Merrill, Riot's president.
"The next 10 years, we want to do more of the same, make other interesting games
and continue to grow and invest in 'League.' "

Merrill and Riot Chief Executive Beck refused to characterize the company's
increase to 103 million players last month from the previously released figure
of 67 million nearly three years ago, saying it was up to others to judge
whether that's satisfactory growth.

They also declined to comment on sales and profits. Outside estimates have the
company easily seeing $1 billion in revenue, mostly from selling cosmetic
upgrades to virtual characters in "League of Legends."

Now fully owned by the Chinese gaming giant Tencent, Riot has both the
independence and financial flexibility to chart its own course. Riot wants to
end up with "a few games" over the next decade, Beck said. But there's no rush.

Regardless of what lies ahead, Riot will remembered for unusual strategies and
for taking e-sports from "a cult segment to a huge stature," said Lisa Cosmas
Hanson, managing partner of gaming industry consultancy Niko Partners.

Financiers including NBA stars and media moguls are spending millions of dollars
to field top-tier "League of Legends" teams and thrust them into tournaments
with many more millions in prize and sponsor money at stake. How the competition
grew so fierce -- to the point that millions of fans stream professional
"League" games each week -- is a testament to Beck and Merrill deviating from
industry norms, analysts and early Riot investors said.

Unlike big gaming companies that had to sell a new game every year, Riot
launched "League of Legends" in 2009 as a free online download. Updates are free
as well, with the company reliant on the in-game transactions for revenue. The
setup enables players to go much deeper into a single virtual universe, as
Merrill and Beck longed to do as gaming-obsessed teenagers.

The game lacks a single-player mode. And though the goal of destroying the
enemy's base is easy to follow, getting a grip on how to succeed is difficult.
The decisions emphasized "League" as a community, where even just being a
spectator was OK.

Rick Heitzmann, managing director at FirstMark Capital and an early Riot
investor, recalled how Merrill compared big gaming publishers to Disneyland.
They could afford to develop a crazier roller coaster, or game, every year.

With much less cash, Riot had to be "pickup basketball or soccer, where it's not
about the field or court, it's about the social interactions and competitiveness
and community," Heitzmann said.

Though the strategy worked, the laser focus on "League of Legends" has invited
scrutiny about whether Riot left money on the table by not seizing on its
popularity to market additional games.

"It's very rare to see a company focus on one game for such a long time and not
introduce any sequels, spinoffs or even brand-new" titles, Niko Partners analyst
Daniel Ahmad said.

Beck said it comes down to valuing long-term potential over short-term gains and
that development of "League of Legends" is far from done.

Teut Weidemann, a longtime gaming executive and consultant, said looking
elsewhere too soon would have distracted Riot. But he noted that the company
could be challenged if players shift attention to similar smartphone and
virtual-reality games, two growing mediums where Riot hasn't carved out a big
spot. Already in China, Tencent's "King of Glory" -- regarded as a "League"-like
mobile game -- has hit 30 million daily users, according to Niko Partners.

A cautious approach to developing a new game gives Riot time and space to fit
its core value -- doing right by its players -- into a larger ecosystem.

"We feel comfortable doing R&D on big, risky, crazy ideas and failing internally
multiple times before shipping to players," Beck said.

Players have stuck with the company through embarrassing growing pains, but
releasing more games increases the chances of unsettling the strong
relationship.

"Our intentions haven't changed but the quality of execution has," Merrill said
of the player-first mentality, with Riot now at about 2,000 employees worldwide.
"Often, our biggest mistakes are where we lose sight of ... how players are
perceiving things."

Most recently, Merrill admitted that he forgot how many eyes are on his company
when he wrote on an online forum to respond to criticism from a professional
"League of Legends" team owner. The owner had called for Riot to promote a more
stable business climate in e-sports, in which owners, players and sponsors see
the promise of huge profits. Fans lashed back at Merrill for being insensitive
to the concerns.

Operating 13 tournaments for its game across the world has placed Riot in an
"awkward" spot of having to balance the interests of multiple parties, Beck
said.

"We wish we didn't have to be in the middle of all that, and in the long term,
we hope we won't have to be," Beck said.

Asked how the company could relinquish control, he said, "You tell me."

The co-founders recognize that a fresh set of game-changing ideas is needed to
take its sport another level up.

"One of my favorite quotes is from Bruce Lee," Merrill said. " 'There are no
limits, only plateaus,' and we've hit this interesting plateau. What will get us
to this next plateau? The solutions that got us here won't necessarily be the
ones that get us to the next one, and that's the ground we're going to explore."

Coming up

Online-focused media company Fullscreen hosts a day of data science talks
Wednesday, including looks at how Netflix and other media firms act on user data
to come up with video recommendations.

--

paresh.dave@latimes.com

Twitter: @peard33

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RIOT GAMES co-founders Marc Merrill, left, and Brandon Beck
helped turn video games into an almost-mainstream sport through "League of
Legends."  PHOTOGRAPHER: Riot Games Inc.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Will win polls: Rahul Gandhi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 310  words


New Delhi, Jan 27 (IBNS): Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said he
is 'reasonably confident' that his party will win the Lok Sabha polls this year.

"Will win elections....I am reasonably confident about it (winning 2014 Lok
Sabha polls)," Rahul Gandhi told Times Now.

Rahul Gandhi, however, said he will take responsibility if his party fails to
win the Lok Sabha polls.

"As the Congress vice- president, responsibility is mine if  it loses this
election," Gandhi said.

Attacking Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)s prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over the 2002 Gujarat riots, Rahul Gandhi
said: "The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984,Government was trying to stop the riots."

"The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further,"
he said.

Rahul Gandhi, however, admitted some Congress members were probably involved in
the 1984 riots.

"Some Congressmen were probably involved," the Congress vice-president told the
news channel.

When asked about apologising over the 1984 riots, he said: "I think that riots,
as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly, I was not in operation in Congress
party."

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.

Gandhi referred to the loss of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in the 1977
general elections and said: "In 1977, when my grandmother lost the election. The
people who stood my by grandmother, were Sikhs..Pretty much everybody had
deserted my grandmother, But the Sikhs were standing with my grandmother..I
think the Sikhs are probably one of the most industrious people in this
country."

"We have a PM who is a Sikh," he said referring to Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh.

Gandhi said the Congress party is an extremely powerful system.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                                 August 4, 1985

Riot charges review ordered

BYLINE: By Malcolm Pithers and Paul Keel

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 457 words


SIR MICHAEL HAVERS, the Attorney-General, is to ask for an informal report from
prosecuting solicitors who have been dealing with riot charges brought against
miners during the pit dispute, to see what lessons can be learned from them.

The Attorney-General's office confirmed this last week after increased
speculation that no further riot cases are to be proceeded with.  The South
Yorkshire prosecuting solicitors' office said that all riot cases they were
handling were under "active review".

It is known that 139 cases of riot and unlawful assembly are pending, arising
out of the strike in South Yorkshire.

The official listing shows that 22 men were charged with riot and unlawful
assembly at the Orgreave coking plant on June 6 last year and a further 55 at
Orgrave on June 18.  Forty of these have yet to be heard.

At Armthorpe, near Doncaster, on August 22 last year 10 men were charged with
unlawful assembly; at Brodworth between October 12 and 19 a further 17 men were
charged with unlawful assembly; and at Rossington on November 12, 10 men were
charged with riot.

So far there has not been a successful conviction for riot by a jury.

During the dispute 137 miners were charged with riot and 509 with unlawful
assembly.  According to the Home Office last week, there were a total of 9,808
arrests.  Of the 5,653 cases dealt with, there were 4,318 convictions and 1,335
acquittals.

A spokesman for the Attorney-General's office confirmed last week that Sir
Michael will be calling for a report into the various cases but not before they
have been completed.  The spokesman said that the exercise was a way of
examining exactly how cases were handled.It is thought that one topic which will
be discussed is how evidence of riot is gathered and substantiated in court.

Some defence lawyers believe that police are paying the price in court for
having used the riot law during the strike.  Mrs Gareth Peirce, who represented
16 miners at Sheffield, said she believed the police probably gave little
thought to the eventual prosecution when they originally charged miners with
riot.

Even before the miners' strike, police had experience of difficulties in gaining
convictions on riot charges.  In the trial of 16 people after the disturbances
in the St Paul's District of Bristol in 1980, not one was found guilty of riot.

The prosecution's difficulty is that when the conduct of an individual whom
police arrested for rioting is examined in court, his contribution to overall
crowd disorder is rarely easy to prove.

Police are aware of this and are looking forward to proposed changes in public
order legislation which, they believe, will make it easier for them and the
courts to gain convictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Reading the Riots - live Q&A with Sir Hugh Orde, Paul McKeever and Sir Denis
O'Connor

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Sir Hugh Orde of Acpo, Paul McKeever of the Police Federation, and Sir Denis
O'Connor, the outgoing chief inspector of constabulary, will be here live from
midday BST to answer your questions on Reading the Riots

FULL TEXT

On Sunday the Guardian began publishing part two of its groundbreaking
collaboration with the London School of Economics - Reading the Riots.

The second part of this comprehensive study into the English riots of last
summer has involved more than 300 interviews with those affected by the riots,
including 130 police officers deployed in London, Birmingham, Manchester,
Salford and Liverpool.

The study found that police expect a repeat of the riots, and are concerned
about whether they will have the resources to cope with future unrest on that
scale.

Officers interviewed said further disorder was likely, with many citing
worsening social and economic conditions as the potential cause of further riots
.

There was considerable concern among police that their ability to deal with any
future disorder may be affected by the scale of the budget cuts currently
affecting forces. You can read a summary of the findings from our interviews
with 130 police officers here, and you can read all our coverage in full here.

To discuss the findings today we are pleased to welcome Sir Hugh Orde, the
president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Paul McKeever, the
chairman of the Police Federation, and Sir Denis O'Connor, the outgoing chief
inspector of constabulary.

McKeever will be online from midday until 1pm.

Orde will be online from 12.30pm to 1.30pm.

O'Connor will be online from 1.15pm to 2pm.

Sir Hugh Orde joined the Metropolitan police in 1977 where as a commander he
developed Operation Trident, an operation set up to deal with serious
drug-related crime in London. In September 2002 he was appointed chief constable
of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, and during his seven years in that
job he increased Catholic recruitment and won the support of unprecedented
numbers of nationalists and Catholics. He was appointed vice-president of the
Association of Chief Police Officers, the senior officers' forum for best
practice in the police, in 2006, and in 2009 became its president.

Paul McKeever's policing career began in 1977 at the Metropolitan police. He
served in Lambeth until 1989 and policed the Brixton riots in 1981 and 1985. He
was elected to the Police Federation, the staff association for rank and file
officers, in 1992, and appointed chairman in 2008.

Sir Denis O'Connor is the outgoing chief inspector of constabulary. He joined
the Metropolitan police in 1968 and was chief constable of Surrey police from
2000 to 2004. O'Connor has reviewed the 2011 riots, as well as the policing of
public protests following the G20 in London in 2009, value for money in the
police force, antisocial behaviour, and policing in a time of austerity.

What do they think of the findings? Do they agree that riots are likely to
happen again? Does the ongoing recession play a part in that? Will the police
cuts leave forces less able to tackle future unrest? Should the Metropolitan
police have called in more help from outside forces sooner, and made sure all
its radio equipment was totally compatible?Post your questions below.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                Final C Edition

Perspective needed on the hockey riot; Yes, it was bad, but there's no reason to
believe Vancouver has become a worse place than it was the day before

BYLINE: Stephen Hume, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Stephen Hume; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 617  words


Oh, Lord, will this inflated anguish over the hockey riot never subside?

Look, the riot was bad. People were hurt. Nobody deserves that. No intelligent
person excuses the participants. Looters, vandals, people who committed violent
assaults should be punished as - and when - they are found guilty in a court of
law. Yes, let's examine our response procedures. Until then can we just stop
fulminating about it?

Let's have some perspective here.

We're told 60 businesses were affected by the riot. Damage estimates range from
$1 million to $5 million.

In the month elapsed since the riot, 155 businesses and 199 residences in
Vancouver have been subjected to property crimes of varying severity ranging
from break-ins to major vandalism. There have been more than 50 cases of arson.

It's reported that 15 vehicles were destroyed during the riot at a cost of about
$500,000 to ICBC for insurance claims.

In the month since the riot, at least 100 cars have been wrecked in motor
vehicle accidents, many because a driver was at fault, and 129 vehicles have
been stolen outright, some recovered, no doubt, but some either wrecked or never
to be seen again. Even if the stolen cars were all wellused Dodge Neons, which
is doubtful, the cost will run somewhere about $775,000 at a minimum.

Top estimate for damage in the riot is $5 million. Payouts by ICBC for damage to
people and property by motor vehicles over the past two years tops $5 billion.

Estimates for injuries in the riot, some of them serious, run from 57 to more
than 200. Nobody diminishes injuries. But last year alone, more than 13,000
people were injured in Vancouver in motor vehicle accidents and since 2002,
almost 200 people have been killed. For the region in 2010, it was 97,220
accidents injuring 28,700 people.

In the month elapsed since the riot, there have been about 500 criminal assaults
in Vancouver. There have been 40 sexual assaults. Not counting the vehicular
mayhem, that's about 18 violent acts against individuals per day.

Vancouver police department statistics show that in the realm of sexual
assaults, attacks by strangers were up 16 per cent in 2010, incidents of
groping, grabbing and unwanted kissing were up 24 per cent. The central business
district was where the preponderance of these incidents occurred.

Proportional to this bigger picture, the actual consequences of the riot start
to look somewhat less significant.

In the last decade, 24,238 Vancouver businesses have been victimized by property
crime. More than 4,500 people in Vancouver, the vast majority of them women,
have been sexually assaulted. More than 42,000 incidents of violent assault have
been recorded. More than 150 have been murdered. More than 160 have been victims
of attempted murder.

Frankly, we'd have to endure a hockey riot every month for a decade to match
those totals.

None of this is to point fingers at the Vancouver police department. Our police
seem to be doing a commendable job in difficult circumstances. And, if you ask
me, they did a good job on the day of the hockey riot, quite properly reading a
fast-developing situation and making their priority not protection of property
but the safety of people - even the idiots who were rioting. I think their
strategic restraint prevented things from becoming a lot worse than they might
have.

But our purveyors of hot air should put these events in context. Nobody thought
on the day before the riot that Vancouver belonged in the realm of the Road
Warrior. It doesn't. Vancouver is still a remarkably tranquil and polite place
as big cities go. It is silly to think that what happened after the hockey game
indicates it's become a worse place than it was a day earlier.

shume@islandnet.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arlen Redekop,  PNG Files; The outcome of Stanley Cup riot looks
insignificant in proportion to the bigger crime picture in Vancouver.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

ACTION NOW!;
Riots report urges quick reforms

BYLINE: EXAMINER News Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 443 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across the country, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recom-mendations in our report."

The interim report from the panel detailed the "sometimes horrifying and tragic"
accounts of people's experiences of the disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims of the riots receive compensation quickly.

The panel had not heard from anyone who had received a payment under the Act,
with forecasts that by March 2012 "barely half" of the smallest and only one in
10 of the largest claims will have been paid.

The report called for the insurance industry to tackle cases where service has
been poor.

It also said stop and search needed "immediate attention" to ensure community
confidence was not undermined. This followed complaints from many people that
police stop and search was "consistently" carried out without courtesy.

Victims should be able to confront rioters who committed crimes against them,
the report said, and service personnel who protected communities at "great risk"
should be honoured.

There should also be "clear plans" to help cut the risk of reoffending by
convicted rioters, the report added.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person. The final bill could
reach around pounds 500 million, including up to pounds 300 million of claims
under the Riot Damages Act and pounds 50 million costs to police, the report
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

5 face riot charges in beating incident

BYLINE: Liz Markhlevskaya, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


Dec. 03--ROCHESTER -- Five young men are facing felony charges in connection
with a riot that occurred in September at Spaulding High School, where one
17-year-old victim was attacked by several assailants.

Rochester residents Dylan Boston, 17, Michael Burke, 18, Zachary Colbroth, 19,
Cody Cook, 19, and Shamel Jackson-Dixon, 19, were recently indicted in Strafford
County Superior Court for allegedly being involved in the riot, which occurred
near Hanson Pines outside of school hours. During the riot, four of the men
allegedly attacked one 17-year-old boy, who was kicked and punched in the head
and face, said Police Capt. Gary Boudreau. He said the victim was taken to the
hospital after suffering injuries that were not believed to be life-threatening.

According to Boudreau, the riot occurred during a varsity football game on Sept.
5, around 8:30 p.m., in the parking lot near Hanson Pines. He said the incident
began as a verbal argument between several people that started escalating as
bystanders gathered around the scene. One of the bystanders, the 17-year-old who
was attacked, interfered in an attempt to diffuse the situation and became the
target of assaults.

Burke, of 21 Norway Plains Road, Apt. 13, allegedly punched the victim in the
head. Colbroth, who lived with Burke, allegedly kicked the 17-year-old victim in
the head. Cook, of 4 Clearview Drive, allegedly punched him in the chest.

Jackson-Dixon, of 8 Lafayette St., Apt. A, allegedly kicked the riot victim in
the face while the victim was on the ground.

Boston, of 52 Hanson St., is not accused of assaulting the 17-year-old riot
victim, but is charged with pushing another man in the chest and threatening him
by saying, "I'll bang you out," or words to that effect.

All five men were recently indicted on the riot charge, which is a Class B
felony. It alleges they were involved in violent conduct involving two or more
people in which they purposely created a substantial risk of causing public
alarm. The riot charge carries a maximum sentence of 3 1/2  to 7 years in prison
if they are convicted.

In addition to the riot charges, Burke, Colbroth, and Cook were indicted on
Class A misdemeanor simple assault charges, and Jackson-Dixon was indicted on
Class B felony second-degree assault charge, for allegedly assaulting the
17-year-old riot victim.

Burke and Colbroth were also indicted on Class A misdemeanor criminal trespass
charges, for allegedly entering Spaulding High School property after being
prohibited to do so.

Boston is also charged with criminal threatening and simple assault, both Class
A misdemeanors.

It is unknown whether any of the riot suspects are students at Spaulding High
School. According to Boudreau, at least three of the suspects are not students.
School officials did not respond to Foster's inquiries by press time on Tuesday.

Boston and Cook are scheduled to appear for arraignment today at Strafford
County Superior Court. Arraignments for Burke and Jackson-Dixon are scheduled
for Thursday and arraignment for Colbroth is scheduled for Dec. 15.

___ (c)2014 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141203-1FD-5-face-riot-charges-in-beating-incident-1203-20141203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2014 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Twitter and the riots: how the news spread

BYLINE: James Ballguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1904 words

ABSTRACT

Despite politicians' claims, most rioters did not use Twitter, but it played an
important role for the media and during the clean-up

FULL TEXT

For many people, the England riots began with a flurry of curious Twitter
messages shortly before 9pm on Saturday 6 August.

"There is a photo of a police car burning circulating, claiming it's outside
Tottenham police station #markduggan #tottenham shooting," one of the messages
read. Users were sharing news of a police car ablaze outside Tottenham police
station.

A later photo of a bus on fire travelled still further as #TottenhamRiots became
the service's top trending subject, with users trying to find out news, updating
others on whether they had arrived home safely, and even passing on calls for
"legal observers" to head to Tottenham.

News that a protest over the police shooting of Mark Duggan had descended into
violence was being passed along a chain of thousands of Twitter users before
journalists had even arrived at the scene.

An in-depth analysis of a database of more than 2.6m riot-related tweets has
revealed the ways in which the network was used during the disturbances.
"Politicians and commentators were quick to claim that social media played an
important role in inciting and organising riots, calling for sites such as
Twitter to be closed should events of this nature happen again. But our study
has found no evidence of significance in the available data that would justify
such a course of action in respect to Twitter," said Prof Rob Procter of the
University of Manchester, who led a team of academics conducting the analysis.
"In contrast, we do find strong evidence that Twitter was a valuable tool for
mobilising support for the post-riot clean-up and for organising specific
clean-up activities."

The study, conducted as part of Reading the Riots, the Guardian and London
School of Economics investigation into the riots, was based on a database
provided by Twitter. Relevant tweets were drawn from dozens of riot-related
hashtags - such as #EnglandRiots or #BirminghamRiots - which were used at the
time to pool tweets about the same subject.

The England riots were a seminal moment for Twitter. With mainstream media
organisations often struggling to keep up with the fast-moving and unpredictable
spread of the unrest, millions of people turned to the social networking site
for information. That led to a misreading of how the network was being used.

Within days, Twitter itself was being blamed for the contagion, amid assumptions
the networking service was - alongside Facebook and the BlackBerry messaging
service - being used to co-ordinate the unrest. Amid the panic, Britain's then
most senior police officer, Tim Godwin, who was in command at Scotland Yard,
contemplated seeking the authority to "switch it off".

"Everyone watching these horrific actions will be struck by how they were
organised via social media," David Cameron told an emergency parliamentary
meeting. "We are working with the police, the intelligence services and industry
to look at whether it would be right to stop people communicating via these
websites and services when we know they are plotting violence, disorder and
criminality."

However, while politicians, journalists and police were constantly tweeting
about the disorder, rioters were not. Perhaps unsurprisingly, those taking part
in the looting and violence were mostly avoiding communicating on public forums.

"The internet and that is a bit too bait, so no one really broadcasts it on the
internet," said one Hackney rioter. "Like in Twitter there's like a hashtag
innit, like if someone hashtags riots you can go to that certain page and see
what everyone has been saying about the riots. Police could easily go to that
page there and see who's been setting up or organising groups to come."

Not a single person has been convicted for inciting riots on Twitter, and the
270 rioters interviewed by the Guardian/LSE indicated they were far more likely
to be using the private BlackBerry Messenger network on their mobile phones to
communicate.

Amid the enormous database of tweets, researchers discovered only a tiny
fraction that did attempt to either encourage or express support for rioters
during the unrest, with some even setting up anonymous accounts - such as one
called London_Riots - to tweet without their personal identity being revealed.

One London_Riots tweet said: "This is what happens when you consistently opress
[sic] the youth, have some of your own medicine #londonriots." Another said:
"Let's finish guy fawkes job #londonriots #downwithparliament."

But the tiny fraction of tweeters who did use the public platform to support the
riots were typically swamped with a deluge of overwhelmingly negative responses.
One reaction to London_Riots read: "And what about all the innocent people who
feel threatened?"

The broader reaction was simpler still: such messages were overwhelmingly
ignored. Twitter messages spread through retweets - users deciding to repost a
message to every user who follows them. With a large number of retweets,
messages even from relatively unknown users can rapidly reach hundreds of
thousands of people.

Collectively, all of London_Riots's tweets were reposted less than 200 times - a
tiny number in Twitter terms on such a major topic.

Even established users who tweeted positively about the unrest attracted
widespread criticism and numerous accusations of incitement. Jody McIntyre, an
activist and (at the time) blogger for the Independent, sent several messages
interpreted by other users as encouraging or inciting trouble, such as: "I would
suggest young people hit the streets tomorrow with three central demands.
#londonriots."

There was a hostile response - proving that, in the internet's answer to a town
hall meeting, fringe perspectives are quickly slapped down.

Clean-up

Twitter did, however, show it was entirely capable of mobilising large numbers
of people on to the streets when it was used by the public to organise a
clean-up of riot-damaged streets.

Shortly after midnight on Tuesday 9 August, in the middle of the third night of
rioting, Dan Thompson, a Worthing-based artist who tweets as @artistsmakers,
suggested Twitter users should take to the streets the following morning to help
clear up the damage caused by the night's rioting.

The idea, tagged #riotcleanup, soon dwarfed even Twitter coverage of the night's
riots. More than 12,000 people posted messages under the tag, which were then
retweeted more than 31,000 times - reaching more than seven million users. "Last
night we needed batman," said @arthurascii, in a tweet shared 1,300 times. "This
morning we need The Wombles. #londonriots #riotcleanup."

People turned out the following morning in Hackney, Brixton and other sites
across the capital. In the following days, social media-inspired clean-up teams
helped council cleaners in Manchester and Birmingham.

Professionals even pitched in. An offer of help from handyman service
The_Multiman - "#riotcleanup if you have a shop or home that has been affected
my handymen will volunteer in our spare time to help with any repairs! Pls RT" -
was retweeted 2,980 times.

Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, turned out to join around 300 #riotcleanup
volunteers in Clapham Junction, and after some cajoling held aloft a broom.
Photos taken from the scene, particularly one by Lawcol888, sped round Twitter
as quickly as some of the burning police cars in Tottenham.

One rioter, however, said one group of Twitter users may have played a small, if
inadvertent, role in spreading disturbances: mainstream journalists.

"I saw people well on Twitter following journalists' reports," he said. "So not
even of their friends' reports, they were following journalists' reports to find
out where to go."

Journalists used the service as the quickest and simplest way to post short
updates in an atmosphere where using camera equipment or other more visible
reporting tools was risky. But often it was the observations of residents and
observers of the riots - citizen journalists - that proved as useful.

Twitter's prominent role in covering the riots reignited a debate over the
relationship between professional reporters and citizen journalists. Clearly,
citizens collaborated extensively with reporters in the middle of the riots,
often advising on and helping refine the coverage.

With disorder taking place over such a huge area simultaneously - and outlets
such as the BBC and Sky sometimes being forced to pull out their crews - tweeted
reports from citizens on the ground proved immensely valuable.

However, when the research team categorised every Twitter user whose account
received more than 500 mentions from other users - in other words, identified
the most influential tweeters - the list was dominated by the mainstream media.
Official Twitter accounts belonging to mainstream news organisations, such as
@BBCNews or @Guardian, were mentioned more than 126,000 times in relation to the
riots.

Accounts belonging to professional journalists working for the same
organisations got a further 89,000 mentions.

Another group that attracted huge numbers of mentions were the "Twitterati" - a
list of influential Twitter users compiled by the Independent, who collectively
received more than 53,000 mentions. The CNN anchor Piers Morgan topped the
Twitterati mentions list, trailed by the comedian Simon Pegg and the former
deputy prime minister John Prescott.

There were some Twitter users without pre-existing profiles whose messages -
often providing an invaluable insight or amusing comment - received more than
500 retweets. In total, this category of Twitter user update was cited almost
50,000 times.

A separate analysis of how rumours circulated on Twitter during the riots
revealed how the network was used by people to collectively dispel and clarify
false information.

Twitter research team: Prof Rob Procter, Dr Farida Vis, Dr Alex Voss, Marta
Cantijoch, Yana Manyukhina, Prof Mike Thelwall, Steven Gray, Dr Andy
Hudson-Smith, Prof Rachel Gibson, Jonathan Richards, Alastair Dant, Katie Loweth

Top 10 Twitter users during the riots (by @ mentions)

riotcleanup  40,960

paullewis  30,031

piersmorgan  20,412

bbcnews  18,836

itv_news  15,177

bbcbreaking  13,476

guardian  11,513

lawcol888  9,290

simonpegg  9,240

gmpolice  8,904

Top 10 retweeted messages during the riots

simonpegg: Visit www.riotcleanup.co.uk for info on how and where to help if you
can. #riotcleanup

piersmorgan: Love this photo, these people are the REAL Great Britain:
http://t.co/6E3VGje #riotcleanup @Lawcol888

piersmorgan: WATCH THIS: One incredibly brave #Hackney woman faces down the yobs
in extraordinary, heroic style: http://t.co/vSBZeju

policeuk: Please RT to get @UK_blackberry to shut down #BBM till riots end
#BlockBBM let's get it trending #LondonRiots

stevemavis75: Here is one of the scummy wankers, RT and get the bastard caught.

itv_news: Reports that a man has been shot in the head and killed in Croydon
tonight. #londonriots #croydon

Riotcleanup: #riotcleanup info stream and all info @Riotcleanup please spread
the word and RT

piersmorgan: Let's get one thing straight: these people aren't 'protesting',
they are thieving and destroying. #LondonRiots

IDRioters: @gmpolice We have already started a page dedicated to the
#ManchesterRiots to identify the rioters. Please Retweet.

Riotcleanup: #riotcleanup - all info of cleanups @riotcleanup please RT and
spread the word

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 30, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Riots, spending cuts and the brief tonic of a royal wedding. 2011? No, it was
1981;
30 years ago

BYLINE: Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 936 words


An unpopular Government is trying to push through radical spending cuts. At a
time when the only good news is the royal wedding, riots are breaking out on
Britain's streets. Desperate to bring things under control, the Government
considers bringing back the Riot Act ... 2011? No, this is 1981. But the
problems faced by David Cameron's coalition are remarkably similar to those
confronting the Thatcher Government halfway through its first term - even if Mr
Cameron has so far resisted bringing back one of the 18th century's more
contentious pieces of legislation to crack down on civil disturbance.

The Thatcher Government's deliberations over the Riot Act are disclosed in
secret Whitehall memos made public today. The Metropolitan Police Commissioner,
Sir David McNee, put the case for the Riot Act to Mrs Thatcher when she paid a
midnight visit to Scotland Yard and Brixton police station after the Toxteth
riots in July. He argued that the best way to keep control was by introducing
the power to arrest anyone who was on the streets after a state of riot had been
declared by a magistrate. The Riot Act, introduced in 1714, fell into abeyance
in the 20th century and was repealed in 1967.

"Warning of a state of riot could be announced by loud hailer, and arrangements
could be made to ensure that a magistrate was always on call," said the minutes
of the visit, which ran on past 3am. "At present it was extremely difficult to
make arrests, given the speed with which the rioters dispersed."

Sir David was concerned about the royal wedding that month, and the safety of
dignitaries watching the firework display in Hyde Park.

At a Cabinet meeting it was argued that reintroduction of the Riot Act would
have the advantage that any reporter or photographer who remained on the streets
would be guilty of an offence. "Difficulties of identification might be
diminished if the wearing of masks were of itself to be made a criminal
offence," the minutes added.

William Whitelaw, the Home Secretary, was doubtful about a new Riot Act,
however. "Its practical value might be limited, and it would certainly give rise
to some difficulties of enforcement," he wrote in a memo to the Prime Minister.
The idea was swiftly killed off.

Whereas MPs this month rejected the use of water cannon or rubber bullets as a
means to control riots, in 1981 they were taken seriously. John Nott, the
Defence Secretary, said that he could not spare many baton rounds because so
many had been fired in Northern Ireland in the preceding weeks. He expressed
reservations about issuing "army weapons".

Mrs Thatcher believed police should have all the equipment they needed and army
camps to hold offenders. The only thing she would not contemplate was putting
troops on mainland streets.

Dealing with the riots was one thing: working out why they had happened was
another. This year the BlackBerry messaging system was seen as a key factor in
the spread of riots: in 1981 television was seen as the villain.The Home
Secretary was told to get the broadcasters to "pay greater attention to the
possible effects of the way in which they collected and broadcast news items
about violent incidents".

If this year's riots took the Government by surprise, 30 years ago they saw it
coming. Riots in Bristol the previous year were a first sign. But Mrs Thatcher
struggled to understand the level of disaffection.

After she met community leaders in Liverpool one of her aides noted that "she
had been amazed at their hatred for the police".

According to the minutes of a meeting that day with Liverpool church leaders,
Mrs Thatcher said many of the problems of the inner cities had been identified
15 years before. "We had thought then that if people were given good homes and
good schooling, this would give them the basis they needed for a satisfactory
life. But it seemed that this approach had not been wholly right. We should have
to think again." Leading article, page 2

Leaking 'Wets' defied Iron Lady

Cabinet government under Margaret Thatcher, the image: the Iron Lady overcomes
all opposition as she pushes through her radical policies. No one has the guts
to oppose her.

Cabinet government under Margaret Thatcher, the reality: members of the
Government are at each other's throats. The dissenters leak everything. When Mrs
Thatcher upbraids them for leaking, they leak that, too. The extent of the
rancour and the Prime Minister's frustration are laid bare in the Cabinet
minutes of 1981. While she was trying to push through savage spending cuts, the
"wets" were doing everything in their power to stop her. One argued that the
plans of Sir Geoffrey Howe, the Chancellor, "did not offer a sufficiently
imaginative and practicable response to the acute social and political problems
confronting the Government". Merseyside, he was told, was "a community visibly
falling apart ... the tolerance of society was now stretched near to its limit".

At a key meeting on the economy, it was agreed nothing should be said to the
press. The next day, a full report of the meeting was in The Times.

Mrs Thatcher was furious but Robert Armstrong, the Cabinet Secretary, said that
there was little point in a leak investigation: it would not be conclusive and
its existence would inevitably leak. Valentine Low

Mrs Thatcher had a busy year, with riots in Toxteth, left, and problems with No
10 expenses. The wedding of the Prince of Wales and Lady Diana Spencer offered a
brief respite from Cabinet business, as did Trident- she ordered the missile
without telling her colleagues. The problem of President Mitterrand's derriÈre,
below, was dealt with by civil servants

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "Of course these days we can read the riot act on Kindle"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     May 17, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

City approves police chief's request for riot equipment: One councillor objects
to gas guns

BYLINE: FRANCES BULA; VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 284 words


Vancouver police are getting a quarter-million dollars worth of new riot
equipment.

Vancouver councillors, with one exception, approved a request from Chief
Constable Ray Canuel for $ 238,700 worth of portable radios, gas guns, gas
masks, gloves, a public address system, helmets, radio headsets and fluorescent
vests.

Only Coun. Jenny Wai Ching Kwan had an objection. She wasn't in favor of the gas
masks or guns since, she said, reports from the post-Stanley Cup riot last June
indicated that the police use of those kinds of items seemed to have provoked
the riot.

Supt. Rick Stevens, making the police case to council, said that gas is the best
option police have in a riot-type situation. The only other one is batons, when
police are trying to get a crowd moving.

He also said police could have had Robson Street, the main scene of the riot,
cleared a lot sooner if there had been more officers and they'd had gas masks.

The request asked for equipment for a riot team that's more than double the size
of the old one. During the Robson Street riot, police had two teams of 18
officers. The crowd-control unit will now be expanded to 80 people, with two
call-out teams of 32 each.

Canuel's report says that the last time Vancouver invested in riot equipment was
after numerous riots in 1974 and 1975.

After that, the equipment wasn't used for 15 years, the Justice Institute of
B.C. stopped doing its crowd-control training and crowd-control training also
became a low priority for the department.

The Clinton/Yeltsin summit in 1993 prompted the department to do some upgrading
and new training, which was all the police department had when the riot happened
last June.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Murmurs of riots, residents warn

BYLINE: JASON MAGDER, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 344  words


There was a heavy police presence on the streets of Montreal North last night
hours after news that the police officers who shot and killed Fredy Villanueva
won't face criminal charges.

Villanueva, 18, was shot by police on Aug. 9, after police tried to arrest his
brother. The incident sparked an Aug. 10 riot in which a police officer was
shot, and many accusations of racial profiling from area residents.

Last night, news of a decision by crown prosecutors not to charge the police
officer who shot Villanueva spread rapidly through the neighbourhood.

"I don't like it," said a 42-year-old woman who didn't want to give her name.
She lives a block away from where the riot broke out. "Police don't leave the
people here alone. I'm scared there will be another riot, and more violence."

Valerie Dupuis, another area resident, said there is talk about another riot
being organized for this weekend.

"There have been murmurs about it for weeks," said Dupuis, 20. "This is a very
tight-knit community, so we hear everything."

At the video store Videoclip, signs of the riot were still evident last night.
The banner above the store's front door is half missing, from several explosions
that occurred during the violence.

An employee said she's bracing for more violence.

"There's going to be a riot, that is sure, sure, sure," said the woman, who did
not want to reveal her name. "People have been talking about a second riot after
the results of the police investigation are known."

Not everyone agreed that riots are a sure thing.

"They organized a march through the streets in October, and there was supposed
to be a riot at that time, but there wasn't," said another resident who didn't
want to be named.

Lyna Bunla, 16, said she, too, is upset about what happened to Villanueva. "He
was my friend. I knew him. I understand why people were angry, but I think their
reaction was exaggerated."

She said the heavy police presence last night, and since the shooting, has been
frustrating.

"Police are always here," she said. "We can't do what we want."

jmagder@thegazette.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 16 1989, Sunday

Legal fear over secret police riot strategy

BYLINE: DAVID LEPPARD

SECTION: Issue 8592.

LENGTH: 510 words


BRITAIN'S police chiefs have drawn up far-reaching plans to tackle riots, rural
violence and industrial disputes.

The secret plans, which reflect a big rethink in police strategy, follow a
detailed analysis of serious failures during the 1985 Broadwater Farm riot, when
PC Keith Blakelock was killed, and the 1987 Wapping riot, which led to criminal
charges against 26 police officers.


They include down-grading the use of shield lines dozens of helmeted police
hunched behind interlocking lines of body-length shields which have formed the
backbone of riot strategy since 1977. Instead, police chiefs want more
aggressive tactics where arrest teams run at rioters using truncheons and short,
round shields.

The move comes as thousands of people prepare to march in Southall, west London,
next weekend, to commemorate the death of Blair Peach, the teacher who died
during a charge by riot police at a demonstration against the National Front in
1979.

The plans appear in a new edition of the confidential tactical options manual
prepared by the Association of Chief Police Officers. It will be circulated to
all 270 chief police officers after approval by Douglas Hurd, the home
secretary.

According to senior police sources, the manual stresses the need for 'early
resolution' of riots and violent disorder. One senior officer, involved in the
plans, said: 'The long shield line is a tactic we should discard. They are too
cumbersome and even dangerous. The thinking now is that we've got to nip riots
in the bud.'

But the proposed changes could be threatened by growing doubts about officers'
legal rights in trying to control disorder and by warnings that police officers
could refuse to follow orders in a riot.

Legal experts say while police officers may use 'reasonable force' to arrest
people committing crimes during disorder, that does not entitle them to remove
crowds.

Last January, officers from the east London anti-riot territorial support group
refused to undergo riot training saying they were uncertain about their legal
rights.

The move followed a decision by the director of public prosecutions to recommend
charges against 26 officers for assault, perjury and conspiracy to pervert the
course of justice as a result of alleged offences during the riot outside News
International's Wapping plant in 1987.

Mike Bennett, chairman of the London branch of the Police Federation, said: 'We
want to know exactly what 'reasonable force' means and whether we will be
supported by the commissioner. Unless we get some sanction in the law, when the
next riot happens police officers may well step backwards and refuse to take
part in riot control.'

Even if the legal issue is resolved, civil liberties critics say the change in
tactics could actually provoke violence.

Lord Gifford, QC, who headed an inquiry into police tactics at Broadwater Farm,
said: 'You can't deal with these situations by cracking heads. It's mad. To
start training officers in this sort of military style is not going to help.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 12:22 PM GMT

Riot law reform will help firms survive;
Small businesses offered 'new for old' payouts in easier claim process

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 468 words


A major overhaul of riot laws will make it easier for small businesses in London
to receive proper compensation after future disturbances.

A report commissioned by Home Secretary Theresa May says businesses affected by
riots should receive "new for old" compensation and that compensation for damage
to vehicles should be provided for the first time. Other key recommendations
include making it easier to apply for compensation and the creation of a Home
Office-backed "claims bureau" staffed by insurance industry experts.

However, large firms will lose out because of a plan to cap payouts to prevent
huge awards such as the £70 million a judge recently told the Met to give Sony
for the destruction of its Enfield warehouse in the 2011 riots.

Unveiling the report today, policing minister Damian Green said the proposals to
the Riot Damages Act were "sensible" and signalled that many would be
implemented after a public consultation. In an article for the Evening Standard
on this page, he says that ministers want to help small firms and that
substantial changes were needed to the "antiquated" Act, which became law in
1886.

The report, produced for the Home Office by Neil Kinghan, a former senior civil
servant and director of the Local Government Association, also calls on local
authorities to draw up emergency plans "for a riot-recovery service to provide
co-ordinated advice and support" to those affected by disorder.

Interim payments before claims are settled in full are also proposed. Mr Kinghan
calls on ministers to "allow flexibility" so that payments received by victims
from charities "or other non-public sector bodies" are not used as a reason to
reduce the compensation awarded. Power to rule on whether a riot has occurred in
the capital - and whether compensation payments can be made by the taxpayer -
will be given to the deputy mayor for policing, who will be required to seek
advice from the Met and make a decision within seven days of the disorder.

Unveiling his report, Mr Kinghan said that victims and the worst affected areas
were still suffering the consequences of the riots and that legal changes were
needed to minimise the impact of any future disorder.

"I hope that riots will not occur again," he said. "But it is essential that we
should learn from the events that followed the riots." Today's report reveals
that taxpayers have paid £35.2 million under the Riot Damages Act relating to
the 2011 riots, but that this could "still grow to £100 million" or more.

Many affected businesses have complained that legislation has proved
bureaucratic and that payouts have been insufficient to cover losses.

Under the proposed reforms, police will remain liable to pay compensation after
riots. The Home Office will be expected to continue to reimburse forces if the
bill spirals.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 2, 2016 Saturday

20 predictions about the Riot Fest 2016 lineup that are probably wrong

BYLINE: Josh Terry, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 661 words


April 02--With early bird tickets on sale now, it looks like Riot Fest is set to
release its 2016 bill (happening Sept. 16-18 at Douglas Park) soon. (Or,
whenever the Riot Fest Twitter Guy feels like it).

Because of that, I've decided to add my predictions on who'll play Riot Fest.
I've excluded Riot Fest mainstays Andrew W.K. and GWAR (who are almost always
there) and picked these acts after looking at tour schedules, legacy act reunion
news and my own gut. So, without further ado, here are 20 probably wrong
predictions about the 2016 Riot Fest lineup.

AC/DC

LOL. Why not? If the rumors are true, Axl Rose will be free to take over for
departing singer Brian Johnson.

American Football

Already booked at festivals like Wrecking Ball Atlanta and without a Chicago
stop, American Football hopefully will take its welcome reunion run to Riot
Fest.

At The Drive-In

Probably the most sure-bet out of all these picks. ATDI is one of the year's
most high-profile reunions that's booked at festivals all over the country this
summer. Without a Chicago date, I almost guarantee this. I'll miss original
guitarist Jim Ward, who unfortunately won't be touring with the band, but it'll
still be great to hear songs from 2000's "Relationship of Command" live.

Blondie

Sure, this iconic band played Riot Fest in 2013, but Debbie Harry can and should
come back whenever she damn pleases. No current Chicago dates.

Bully

As it was the only band to play both Pitchfork and Lollapalooza last year, it's
only a matter of time until these relentlessly touring garage rockers hit Riot
Fest.

Garbage

Its tour schedule makes sense for a Riot Fest stop, not to mention the fact that
the festival's all-over-the-place demographic would totally love this veteran
group.

The Hold Steady

Since it's the 10-year anniversary of the band's album "Boys and Girls in
America," and I guarantee you will hear a 20-something fan of that band saying
they "feel so old" after learning that.

Hop Along

Wishful thinking. Probably will happen, though!

Motion City Soundtrack

To the absolute despair of my 15-year-old self, this band is calling it quits
and currently has no Chicago tour stop on its upcoming farewell jaunt. Hmm.

Ne-Hi

I figured Ne-Hi would play Pitchfork, but the more I think about these rising
Chicago post-punks playing Riot Fest, the more it makes sense. Hopefully by then
we'll have news of the four-piece's upcoming album.

The Promise Ring

"Nothing Feels Good," but this prediction does.

PUP

There doesn't seem to be plans for a Riot Fest Toronto and I know the band loves
Malort, so this should be a lock. Call me crazy.

Rozwell Kid

West Virginia's finest power pop band that also happens to be Chili's
aficionados would bring the snarky stage banter and some totally tubular riffs
to an afternoon set at Douglas Park.

Saves the Day

Celebrating the 15-year anniversary of "Stay What You Are" with a set playing
the album in full at FYF Fest in California, I'd expect Riot Fest to get the
same treatment.

Say Anything

The band responsible for "...Is A Real Boy" will go on tour next month and
hopefully add festivals to its current club-only tour docket.

Smashing Pumpkins

It could happen!

Thursday

Likely the most welcome reunion of probable Riot Fest acts, it's going to be
real damn cathartic to sing and mope along to this band's catalog.

The Used

I thought this band sucked when I was in high school and haven't revisited
since, but friends I see at Riot Fest every year seem to like them. Happy for my
friends if this band plays.

Waxahatchee

Riot Fest is a perfect setting for a show from the Katie Crutchfield songwriting
vessel. She played Pitchfork last year and is still on the festival circuit.

Ween

The band officially reunited in February and is scheduled to play Bonnaroo.
It'll be a rad time.

@joshhterry -- jterry@redeyechicago.com

Music and cocktail making classes in Chicago? Click here.

___ (c)2016 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160402-1RC-20-predictions-about-the-Riot
-Fest-2016-lineup-that-are-probably-wrong-0402-20160402

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2016


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 7, 2006, Tuesday

"You would be wrong to claim that riots are undesirable ...they are as
acceptable as war"

BYLINE: James Brown

SECTION: FEATURES; Public Agenda; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 582 words


POLL Tax. Strangeways, Brixton, Toxteth, Stop The City? Go on, you know what I'm
talking about -riots. Explosive, headline-grabbing urban conflicts that storm
into our collective conscience with must-see images like mounted police charges,
burning cars and the arcing flare of a flying petrol bomb. Compare them with
Menwith Hill, Faslane, Grunwick and so on, these are demonstrations which, with
the exception of the huge anti-war and CND marches, never carry the impact for
us to remember them by geographic location alone. It doesn't matter that maybe a
million more people traipse up and down Park Lane and Trafalgar Square with
banners campaigning against war than fight hand to hand with the authorities
over police tactics or capitalism. The simple fact is that the aggressive
conflict that separates a riot from a demonstration also guarantees its status
in our memories.

You can spotlight their random violence, the opportunist looting and the terror
inherent in an uncontrollable mob attacking the state. You can mark them down as
the behaviour of antisocial, anarchistic, drink-crazed thugs. You would, of
course, be partially right, but I believe that you would be wrong to claim that
riots are undesirable. In the bigger picture they are as acceptable as war. The
causes of riots often reflect mini-versions of big international conflicts.

Religion, class, anger, history and communication breakdown are all fuel for
riot's chaotic fire. And, like war, the subsequent social improvement that
follows a riot is often implemented more quickly than any change through
political means can be achieved.

A riot is in its very nature desperate. It is the mob option, there is very
rarely a four-man riot. It's the tool of social change used by those who feel
that their grievance is going unheard. In his book Chaos and Community, Martin
Luther King wrote: "A riot is at bottom the language of the unheard."

As a publicity-getter it is almost second to none. When cars are upturned and
burnt the cameras of the world zoom in. Should you have an eloquent frontperson
to spell out the reason behind the ruction, then a message can be communicated.
When Paul Taylor instigated and led the Strangeways prison riot, so clear and
perhaps justified were his demands that the authorities played loud music to
drown out his message from reaching attendant media.

The Strangeways prison riot prompted a report that would see the biggest changes
in the British penal system in more than a century. Those that created that
report will have been richly rewarded; by comparison Taylor, the man who tired
of prison-officer brutality and the degradation of public slopping out, received
another 11 years inside for his part.

He accepted the increased sentence but also knew that his actions had sparked
major social change.

It is a telling example. They may be terrifying experiences where innocents
suffer and damage to individuals and property is lasting and sometimes goes
unanswered.

But I would argue that riots are a very British institution. An acceptable and
eagerly anticipated example of social bloodletting, something that keeps us as a
nation from revolution itself. Perhaps the greatest proof I can offer is that
the one constant at every riot are the police. They practise for them, come
equipped and use them as training grounds for all forms of crowd control. Go on
p-p pick up a petrol bomb, it's a great British tradition.

* James Brown presents I Predict a Riot, starting tonight on Bravo at 10pm

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Rapid riot prosecutions more important than long sentences, says Keir Starmer

BYLINE: Fiona Bawdonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 863 words

ABSTRACT

Director of public prosecutions challenges received wisdom that heavy sentences
for rioters worked as an effective deterrence

FULL TEXT

Britain's most senior prosecutor has questioned whether heavy sentences given to
last summer's rioters worked as an effective deterrence, challenging the
received wisdom from senior judges and politicians.

Keir Starmer QC, the director of public prosecutions, said the speed with which
rioters and looters were brought before the courts was far more powerful in
preventing reoffending than the severity of sentences.

Senior figures ranging from court of appeal judges to David Cameron have
strongly endorsed the tough message conveyed by handing down significantly
longer sentences to rioters than they would have received for similar offences
committed at other times.

Starmer, who said the riots would go down in history as an example of how the
criminal justice system coped with a unprecedented challenge, was the most
senior of 65 prosecutors and defence lawyers who were interviewed for the
Guardian and London School of Economics investigation into the civil unrest that
spread across England.

"I was not so persuaded the sentences in and of themselves were the real issue,"
he said. "For me it was the speed [of processing cases] that I think may have
played some small part in bringing the situation back under control.

"I don't think they [rioters] would have thought: 'Oh well, am I going to get 12
months or 18 months?' I don't think people gamble on the length of sentence,
particularly. They gamble on: 'Am I going to get caught? Am I going to get
sentenced and sent to prison?' And if the answer is: 'I'm now watching on the
television some other people who had been caught 24 hours or 48 hours after they
were on the streets with us' - I think that's a very powerful message."

The Crown Prosecution Service recently announced a scheme to fast-track the
trials of people accused of offences linked to the Olympics, based on last
summer's experience of quickly dealing with riot cases.

A detailed insight into how courts coped with the surge in cases that followed
the August riots is contained in the confidential testimony of lawyers on both
sides of the justice system. Other findings in the final instalment of the
Reading the Riots series include:

· The countrywide experiment in using night courts raisedconcerns, particularly
among defence lawyers, who argued they were chaotic and disorganised, to the
point where the safety of vulnerable prisoners was compromised. Starmer also
raised questions over whether night court sittings should be repeated.

· Overall, most defence lawyers and prosecutors said the courts coped better
than might have been expected after the riots. Many felt that the courts handled
the logistical challenge of so many cases, not least because at the time there
was no blueprint for dealing with an emergency of that kind.

· Many defence lawyers believed due process was sacrificed for expediency in the
rush to process the first wave of riot cases, with complaints of "panicky"
judges declining to assess cases on their individual merit, implementing what
appeared to be a blanket policy of declining bail and, in the words of one
lawyer, dispensing "conveyor-belt justice".

· Lawyers raised complaints about the treatment of their younger clients; one
example was a 14-year-old held in police custody for 36 hours. More than a
quarter of those prosecuted for riot-related offences were aged 17 or under.
Young people were six times more likely to receive custodial sentences if the
offence occured during the riots.

· Most prosecutors - in contrast to Starmer - fully endorsed the sentencing
approach by judges that saw rioters receive an average sentence of 16.8 months,
making the penalties four and half times longer than the average jail term for
similar offences in 2010. Most defence lawyers objected strongly to the
sentences given.

The Ministry of Justice announced last week that 3,051 riot-related cases had
been brought to English courts over the last 11 months. More than two-thirds of
cases related to the riots in London.

Of those defendants, 27% were aged 10-17 and 26% 18-20. Only 6% of those
appearing before the courts for the disorder were aged 40 or over. Exactly half
of the cases were for the offence of burglary, indicating the extent to which
the disorder was characterised by widespread looting.

The CPS said in a statement: "The disorder last summer brought unprecedented
circumstances for the criminal justice system. The CPS has been pleased to take
part in what is likely to become an important piece of historical research into
the reasons, the reactions and the criminal justice system's swift response in a
very challenging environment."

Reading the Riots, a study sponsored by the Open Society Foundations and Jospeh
Rowntree Foundation, has interviewed almost 600 people directly affected by last
summer's riots, including 270 rioters and 130 police officers.

The project, a unique collaboration between the Guardian and LSE involving a
diverse team of researchers, academics, analysts and journalists, has been the
largest and most detailed study into the England riots.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            April 9, 2014 Wednesday

Muzaffarnagar makes peace with Mulayam Singh Yadav and Samajwadi Party

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 1069 words


MUZAFFARNAGAR: In the bitter cold of December, Manga Saifee's newborn son had
died just three days after birth at a riot victims' camp at Loi, about 40 km
from Muzaffarnagar city. A carpenter from Muzaffarnagar's Kharar village, he
fled his home when communal riots erupted on September 8. He is yet to get any
compensation from the government and continues to live in a plastic-tarpaulin
tent with his wife in Loi.

In a nearby tent, lives another middle-aged man from Muzaffarnagar's Phugana
village whose wife was raped during the riots. He used to sell garments.
Displaced from ancestral home in the riots, he now works as a labourer.

At least 3,500 riot victims from 42 villages had found refuge in the Loi camp
after the Muzaffaranagr riots where about 51,000 people were displaced. Some
like Manga continue to wait for compensation, a roof above their heads and
stable means to earn a livelihood.

Since the riots, Muslims in general and riot victims from Muzaffarnagar, Shamli
districts in particular have been livid with the Samajwadi Party government in
Uttar Pradesh. They'd made no secret of their anger and had accused SP -- whom
they voted for in almost every election -- of betraying their trust and loyalty.
SP seemed to have been the biggest loser as Muslims -- the party's crucial
support base -- turned against the party.

As Lok Sabha polls draws close, the tide seems to be turning. On Sunday,
Muslims, including riot victims, in several villages across riot-hit
Muzaffarnagar and Shamli were vocal in their support for SP.

"Yes, we were angry with Mulayam Singh's government. They failed to protect us.
But, in all these months, they are the ones who stood by us and helped with
relief, compensation," said Nadeem, who is yet to get any compensation and lives
in a tent at Loi.

Many riot victims at Loi camp received lump sum compensation and kin of those
killed in the riots got government jobs. "I'm sure I, too, will get due
compensation. So, I will support Mulayam," said Nadeem. Others nod in agreement
proffering reasons for returning to SP. Besides, the SP government would rule UP
for next three years. "So, it makes sense to vote for them," said Umer Din of
Budhana.

These views are echoed by Muslims across Muzaffarnagar and Kairana Lok Sabha
constituencies that straddle riot hit Muzaffarnagar and Shamli. In 2009, BSP won
both seats.

Muslims constitute about 39% of the electorate in both constituencies which go
to polls on April 10. Jats and dalits comprise about 10-11% each, according to
estimates of local leaders.

In Muzaffarnagar, Virender Singh Gujjar (SP) is bracing for a triangular fight
with Sanjeev Baliyan (BJP) and sitting MP Qader Rana (BSP). The three are
delicately poised and a consolidation of Muslim votes in favour of any one
candidate can spell victory. The winning margin though could be slender.

Similarly, in Kairana, it's a contest between Nahid Hasan (SP), son of sitting
MP Tabassum Hasan, Nahid's uncle Kunwar Hasan (BSP), Hukum Singh (BJP) and
Kartar Singh Bhadana (RLD).

Virender Singh Gujjar finds favour with Muslims as someone who helped "whatever
he could" with relief and rehabilitation of riot victims.

Mulayam's rally in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday saw an overwhelming turnout of
Muslims.

Qader Rana, a riot accused, is blamed for fanning trouble through his
inflammatory speech. "He went into hiding, perhaps abroad, when rioters went on
a rampage. Nobody from the BSP even came with a blanket. Their leader Mayawati
never spoke out for us," said Asif, whose home in Phugana was burnt and looted.

Yet, Qader Rana retains a chunk of Muslim supporters, especially, in
Muzaffarnagar city where he lives.

The BJP, perceived as a gainer from the riots, is expected to poll a large
portion of jat votes, especially, in these villages. Bijender Singh Malik,
pradhan of riot-ravaged Kharar, said about 80% jats in his village support BJP.

BJP supporters though were crestfallen as Rajnath Singh did not turn up at
Sunday's rally in Muzaffarnagar's Khatauli due to a helicopter snag. "We
travelled all the way from Kairana to listen to Rajnath ji. But, he addressed us
through mobile phone," said P Malik.

As word about jat reservation spreads in interiors of jatland ahead of polls,
some jats are returning to RLD's fold. Another factor working for RLD is ticket
for peasant leader Rakesh Tikait in Amroha. This could pull his supporters away
from BJP.

Besides, many from Baliyan khap -- largest khap spread over about 85 villages --
and Banias (trader community) are unhappy with Sanjeev Baliyan and could vote
for SP's Gujjar candidate. Gujjars, about 65,000 in Muzaffarnagar are likely
vote for SP and RLD in Kairana where their number is larger.

There is a split in Thakur votes, too. Traditionally, BJP supporters, a section
of Thakurs in Muzaffarnagar are apparently miffed after BJP denied Sangeet Som,
arrested for role in riots, a ticket.

Hindu-Muslim polarization is stark, especially, in riot-hit villages. A section
of dalits, too, are likely to vote for BJP. "We always voted for the elephant
(BSP). But, the riots forced us to change our minds," said a group of Jatavs in
Kairana.

BSP has fielded Muslim candidates in Muzaffarnagar and Kairana. The polarizing
effect is likely to push a section of dalits towards BJP. Some dalits confessed
they were under pressure to vote for the BJP.

The Congress supported by RLD in Muzaffarnagar could also benefit from votes of
a section of Brahmins, Banias and Muslims.

As caste equations overshadow communal polarization, the Hindu, including jat
votes, are fractured. Muslims votes seems divided between SP and BSP. But, fear
that BSP could support BJP to form government at the Centre could spur more
Muslims to support SP.

"Muslims will vote strategically. The day before the poll is crucial. Muslims
will vote for the candidate who has a better chance to win. The idea is to
defeat the BJP," said Abdul Jabbar, former village pradhan.

The appeal of Delhi Jama Masjid's Shahi Imam to vote for Congress doesn't seem
to have much effect. Muslim leaders are a divided lot.

"Shahi Imam says vote for Congress, his brother opposes him. Maulana Arshad
Madani says vote for SP, his nephew Mahmood Madani is backing RLD. Maulana
Hakimuddin told us to support BSP. They are all concerned about their interests,
not the community's. So, we will vote for the candidate we think will stand by
us," said Jabbar.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

Man found guilty on three charges for 2011 riot

BYLINE: DANIEL BITONTI, With reports fromThe Canadian Press

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP MAYHEM; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The first person to go on trial for participating in the 2011 Stanley Cup riot
was found guilty on three charges Thursday afternoon.

The riot, which took place in Vancouver on June 15, 2011, was a black mark for
the city and eventually led to charges against more than 100 people.

Spencer Kirkwood was found guilty of participating in a riot, mischief and
breach of bail.

Mr. Kirkwood, who said in his defence that he was too drunk to remember rioting,
pleaded not guilty to the charges in February and, by doing so, became the first
person to go to trial. According to a Crown counsel spokesperson, 138 people
accused in the riot have already pleaded guilty to their roles in the mayhem.

Provincial Court Judge Conni Bagnall said Mr. Kirkwood's intentions were clear
and he was not too drunk to understand he was doing something wrong.

Mr. Kirkwood will be sentenced on April 9.

Perhaps the most damaging evidence against the 26-year-old presented in court
was a video that shows Mr. Kirkwood pumping his arms outside a
telecommunications store on the night of the riot. As the crowd hollers their
approval, he heaves a long wooden barricade through glass that had only moments
earlier been shattered by another man, who kicked it in first.

The court heard that two days after the riot, Mr. Kirkwood reported himself to
police when he saw footage of the video.

But the saga of the riot, which has now stretched on for almost two years, isn't
quite over yet. The Crown counsel spokesperson said another 12 individuals
accused in the riot have "set their matters to trial," though specific dates for
them were not given.

The riot took place after the Vancouver Canucks lost to the Boston Bruins in
Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals. Hundreds of people took to the streets with
hammers, fire accelerants and balaclavas in a rampage of destruction, arson and
assault. Tens of thousands of innocent people were trapped, trying to flee the
escalating violence.

Vancouver police held off responding for several crucial minutes, enough time
for a handful of troublemakers to become a mob. The police said the delay was to
avoid injury to innocent bystanders.

The riot left millions of dollars in damages and led to a massive investigation.
Vancouver police were forced to defend themselves on multiple occasions as
criticisms were made that the investigation was slow to lay charges.

Many commentators across the country called the riot a national embarrassment.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

First minister is accused of points-scoring

BYLINE: Tim Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Riots/public order; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


Alex Salmond was accused last night of trying to make political capital out of
the riots engulfing many cities across England.

The main opposition parties claimed the first minister was trying to score
points amid the misery of people affected by looting and arson.

Mr Salmond said he was "frustrated" that the trouble was being described as "UK
riots" when it was not happening in Scotland.

But he added there was an obligation on his government to help and that was why
Scottish police forces had sent officers to England.

The first minister said: "One of my frustrations yesterday was to see the events
being described as riots in the UK. Until such time as we do have a riot in
Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Scotland Office Minister David Mundell said that while Mr Salmond's offer of
police support was "positive", his comments had gone too far. "What is unhelpful
is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of a terrible
situation," he said.

"It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated by media descriptions
of riots in the UK - as if that was the most pressing issue we face.

"I think most Scots would prefer to see the Scottish Government concentrate on
providing practical assistance as part of the UK rather than scoring cheap
points."

Scottish Labour leader Iain Gray, whose daughter is marrying a young man from
Manchester this week, said: "The first minister's reaction to the riots is
small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most important thing was
that they should be called English riots on TV.

"Surely he could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities
devastated by this criminal violence first and foremost."

Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie described Mr Salmond's comments as the
"worst face of nationalism".

"It's very unfortunate that the first minister is seeking narrow political
advantage out of the misery of others," he said.

"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder and, instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep rooted issues here."

The Scottish Government said officials had received "a number of calls" from the
public expressing concern at the media's description of the riots as being UK
riots.

The government had contacted the "relevant broadcasters" and the latest coverage
had shown that concerns had been taken on board. A spokesman said: "It is
important a proper picture is painted internationally, so people know Scotland
remains a safe tourist destination." Comment, Page 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Jacksonville Daily Progress (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

Jacksonville Riot win Ross Stewart Invitational soccer tourney

BYLINE: Jacksonville Daily Progress, Texas

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 489 words


June 16--JACKSONVILLE -- The Jacksonville Riot (U-12) soccer team won its third
high profile tournament of the season last weekend by defeating the Oak Cliff
Pumas 3-2 in the finals of the Ross Stewart Memorial Invitational tournament at
Russell Creek Park in Plano.

The Riot, members of the Jacksonville Soccer Association, were competing in the
recreational division of the tourney which was only open to teams having
finished first or second in a North Texas Soccer sanctioned tournament during
the year.

Jacksonville opened play early Saturday morning by blanking Longview Fuego 99 by
an impressive 6-0 margin, which avenged a loss to the Fuego earlier in the
season.

In their next outing on Saturday afternoon, North Texas Soccer Association's
Galary 99 outlasted the Riot 3-2.

Jacksonville recovered by bouncing back to shutout FC Forza 4-0 on Saturday
night to advance into Sunday's semi-finals.

In their semi-final match, the Riot thumped the Dallas East Jaguars 2-0 to
advance into the finals later in the day.

A tired bunch of Riot fed off the energy of the large contingent of Jacksonville
fans that had made the trip over to support the team as the Riot were able to
get past the Oak Cliff Pumas 3-2 in the championship match.

The Pumas advanced to the finals by edging the North Texas Galaxy 99 5-4 on
Sunday morning.

Other tournament wins this season for the Riot came at the Nacogdoches Cup &
Games Spring Shootout, where the Riot went through the field undefeated in
capturing the crown, and at the 3rd annual Jalapeno Tree Spring Shootout, held
at Lindsey Park in Tyler.

The Riot defeated Tyler FC International 3-1 to earn the top prize in that
prestigious event.

Team members are Adrian Sotelo, Jose "Roy" Martinez, Casey Johnson, Enrique
Rocha, Devin Vasquez, Eduardo Castillo, Brayden Bauer, Jack Oden, Jonathan
Mireles, Cesar Guerrero, Mason Brashear and Jose "Nato" Escareno. Other team
members are Gamaliel "Toti" Mandujuano, Jacob Maldonaldo, Austin Pierce, Jordan
Meza, Cobie Hamilton and Emilio Meza.

Guest players during the Plano tournament were Josue Rodriquez and Kevin Perez
from Mount Pleasant United.

Team coaches for the Riot are Alan Neva (head coach) and Jose Carmona
(assistant).

Sergio Hernandez serves as the squad's team manager.

Conditioning coaches are J. J. Martinez, Alberto Escareno and Pedro Mireles Jr.

Cherokee County CO-OP and Smith Auto Salvage are the Riot's sponsors.

For more information about the Jacksonville Soccer Association, visit
www.jacksonvillesoccer.org or call 1-800-991-4JSA.

Sergio Hernandez contributed to this story.

To see more of the Jacksonville Daily Progress, or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.jacksonvilleprogress.com. Copyright (c) 2011,
Jacksonville Daily Progress, Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110616-JD-Jacksonville-Riot
-win-Ross-Stewart-Invitational-soccer-tourney-0616-20110616

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JD


                   Copyright 2011 Jacksonville Daily Progress


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

RPF shuns 'heavy' bulletproof jackets;
Many in the anti-sabotage units put on lighter riot gear vests and go unpunished
as those are similar looking, find seniors in the force

BYLINE: Binoo Nair

LENGTH: 362  words


The Railway Protection Force authorities in Mumbai have chanced upon a dangerous
trend among some of their personnel. The officials have found that several of
their personnel in the anti-sabotage units, who should move around in
bulletproof vests and helmets, armed with assault rifles are using riot gear
vests instead of the bulletproof ones.

The reason, they have found out is that the riot gear vests are lighter, comes
covered with disruptive pattern camouflage clothing, and decrease the load that
the personnel otherwise have to carry. While the bulletproof vests came in
almost two years ago, the riot gear vests came in a couple of months ago.

The danger, however, lies in the fact that these riot gear vests have
polycarbonate plates in them, which can protect the wearer from stones, rods,
crude bombs - the usual dangers faced in a riot - but are absolutely useless
against both small firearm and assault rifle bullets.

"The total load of a fully uniformed anti-sabotage personnel can go up to 30
kilograms. Moving about at the stations at night, hopping onto and off trains,
is tiresome. Now, with these riot gear vests the weight comes down
considerably," said a senior RPF official.

Officials on condition of anonymity told dna that verbal orders had been issued
to RPF inspectors to ensure that the practice is stopped forthwith including
handing out suspensions to the violators. Several RPF posts have begun to keep
the riot gear vests and the bulletproof ones separately, so that the violation
can be controlled. "The anti-sabotage checks are a routine affair, whereas a
riot isn't. So, an inspector should ensure that the riot gear comes out only
when a riot-like situation is declared," said an official.

"A soldier fully protected by a bulletproof combat gear feels far more confident
psychologically in a terror firefight than one who isn't. A soldier in a riot
gear vest during such a fight will not be able to respond effectively since he
knows that he will have to shield his body from bullets. It defeats the  purpose
of having a fully armed frontline fighting mechanism to take on terrorists, if
they try a repeat of 26/11 at CST," said an official.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

First minister is accused of points-scoring

BYLINE: Tim Pauling

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Riots/public order; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


Alex Salmond was accused last night of trying to make political capital out of
the riots engulfing many cities across England.

The main opposition parties claimed the first minister was trying to score
points amid the misery of people affected by looting and arson.

Mr Salmond said he was "frustrated" that the trouble was being described as "UK
riots" when it was not happening in Scotland.

But he added there was an obligation on his government to help and that was why
Scottish police forces had sent officers to England.

The first minister said: "One of my frustrations yesterday was to see the events
being described as riots in the UK. Until such time as we do have a riot in
Scotland, what we are seeing are riots in London and across English cities."

Scotland Office Minister David Mundell said that while Mr Salmond's offer of
police support was "positive", his comments had gone too far. "What is unhelpful
is the tone he has adopted in trying to make political capital out of a terrible
situation," he said.

"It is a parochial and petty view to say he was frustrated by media descriptions
of riots in the UK - as if that was the most pressing issue we face.

"I think most Scots would prefer to see the Scottish Government concentrate on
providing practical assistance as part of the UK rather than scoring cheap
points."

Scottish Labour leader Iain Gray, whose daughter is marrying a young man from
Manchester this week, said: "The first minister's reaction to the riots is
small-minded and embarrassing if he really thought the most important thing was
that they should be called English riots on TV.

"Surely he could have seen his way to expressing solidarity with the communities
devastated by this criminal violence first and foremost."

Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie described Mr Salmond s comments as the
"worst face of nationalism".

"It's very unfortunate that the first minister is seeking narrow political
advantage out of the misery of others," he said.

"Scotland is not free from social tensions and community disorder and, instead
of gloating about riots in another part of the UK, the first minister's efforts
would be better spent addressing those deep rooted issues here."

The Scottish Government said officials had received "a number of calls" from the
public expressing concern at the media's description of the riots as being UK
riots.

The government had contacted the "relevant broadcasters" and the latest coverage
had shown that concerns had been taken on board. A spokesman said: "It is
important a proper picture is painted internationally, so people know Scotland
remains a safe tourist destination." Comment, Page 15

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            April 2, 1997, Wednesday

Jail blocks set on fire as 300 riot

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: DONEMAN P / ALDRED D

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words


UP TO 300 prisoners burned several buildings at the new $59 million Woodford
prison last night during a riot over complaints of poor quality food.

Emergency Services and prison authorities took almost four hours to bring the
riot under control, with two cell blocks burning and prisoners running loose in
the jail's compound.

Police fired several warning shots in an attempt to bring the riot under control
while armed prison guards with attack dogs battled the inmates.

More than a third of the new jail, west of Caboolture, was damaged.

Brisbane prison officers from the tactical response group, dog squad and
transport and escort groups were rushed to Woodford as reinforcements about 7pm
yesterday.

High and medium-security prisoners destroyed windows and furniture and some
prisoners set fire to their cells.

Officers said the riot started in N Block, which housed the "baddest of the
bad".

Up to 50 inmates started the riot, but this soon escalated as other inmates
joined in, deliberately setting off sprinkler systems and destroying their
cells.

Woodford prison officers had held a stop-work meeting shortly before the riot
over safety issues and staff numbers.

One officer said staff at one stage had refused to receive a prison escort
transporting prisoners they described as "trouble-makers".

Prisoners were locked in their cells about 9pm.

Prisons Minister Russell Cooper last night demanded police and Corrective
Services immediately launch a full investigation into the riot.

"I'll be leaving no stone unturned to find the answers to the reasons for the
riot," Mr Cooper said. "It is disgraceful that a new, modern facility like this
should be desecrated."

Prison union officials had raised fears of a prison riot at Woodford to The
Courier-Mail two weeks ago, saying staff were on alert after tension among
inmates increased over the QCSC's decision to ban smoking within the jail.

The QCSC backed away from the ban, allowing inmates to smoke in designated
areas.

At the jail's opening last month, QCSC director-general Keith Hamburger said a
Corrective Services Unit investigation could not substantiate the riot rumours.

It was claimed that Sir David Longland and Borallon prisoners were offering to
clear the drug debts of other prisoners if they staged a riot at the end of
March when they were transferred to Woodford.

Officers said about 120 inmates, including five high-security prisoners, were
running loose in the jail compound about an hour before the riot was contained.

Queensland Police spokesman Brian Swift said late last night all Woodford
prisoners were accounted for.

He denied reports that prison officers had been taken hostage during the riot,
but said one received a puncture to the arm.

Mr Swift said several prisoners suffered minor injuries during the riot, such as
cuts and abrasions, and were also treated on the scene.

"There's broken windows, broken perspex, broken furniture, smashed plates and
meal trays and food everywhere," he said

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                Final_C Edition

Eight more charged in connection with riot

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 224  words


Charges were laid today against eight more people in connection with the June 15
riot in downtown Vancouver after the Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup
Final, police said Wednesday.

The eight face 26 charges, bringing the total number of people charged so far to
38 people and 103 charges.

Charged are:

. Eric Palmer, 26, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and break and
enter;

. Timothy Lau, 21, of Comox, charged with participating in a riot, two counts of
break and enter and six counts of mischief;

. Duncan Yee, 20, of Surrey, charged with disguise with intent and break and
enter;

. Sean Yates, 22, of Burnaby, charged with participating in a riot and
assaulting a police officer;

. Joshua Pharand, 19, of Chilliwack, charged with participating in a riot and
two counts of mischief;

. Samia Ahmed, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and two
counts of break and enter;

. Chelsea Andrews, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and break
and enter;

. Arian Anwari, 18, of Surrey, charged with participating in a riot and carrying
a weapon for a dangerous purpose.

The Integrated Riot Investigation Team has recommended 278 criminal charges
against 100 suspected rioters. More charges are expected and hundreds of
pictures will be released over the next few weeks, Vancouver police stated in a
news release.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            November 7, 1994, Monday

Video release of world's worst riots angers police

BYLINE: By Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 313 words


A VIDEO showing explicit coverage of some of the world's worst crowd
disturbances goes on sale today. Police chiefs have reacted with anger to the
distribution of Riot Police, made by the same company that brought out the
best-selling Police Stop! video of high-speed car chases.

The film from Labyrinth Video is being released only weeks after a wave of
public order disturbances sparked by the Criminal Justice Bill. Riot Police
examines the history of riots in Britain and argues that the police have been
forced to harden their tactics.

It shows British police in riot training and discusses the changes in equipment
for front-line officers. The video is an A-Z of Britain's worst riots including
Brixton, Toxteth, Handsworth, the miners' strike of 1984-85 and the poll tax
clashes of 1990.

It also examines the use of water cannon and tear gas by police forces in France
and Germany and contains explicit scenes from the riots of Los Angeles in 1992
in which 44 people died and more than 2,000 were injured after police officers
accused of beating a black motorist were cleared.

Leading academics are heard giving their views on riots and claiming that the
British police have been ''amateurish'' in their handling of most of them.
Geoffrey Pearson, Professor of Criminology at London University, said: ''It has
a lot of violence because it is about riots which are very violent.  All the
footage is clips that have been seen on the television news. The video is not
manufactured violence or glamorised as in many television drama series. It is a
factual account of the history of riots and how police attitudes have changed.
It takes a serious look at a subject that is very much in the forefront of
public opinion at the moment.''

The outcry prompted by the success of Police Stop! led many chief constables to
stop providing footage to Labyrinth.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2012 University of Cincinnati
                      University of Cincinnati Law Review

                                   Fall, 2012

                      University of Cincinnati Law Review

                              81 U. Cin. L. Rev. 1

LENGTH: 45447 words

Article: Incitement to Riot in the Age of Flash Mobs

NAME: Margot E. Kaminski*

BIO: * Executive Director of the Information Society Project at Yale Law School,
Research Scholar and Lecturer in Law at Yale Law School. Many thanks to Jack
Balkin, Bryan Choi, James Grimmelmann, Navid Hassanpour, Robert Post, and Jed
Rubenfeld for helpful comments and suggestions. Special thanks to Matthew
Cushing for his invaluable edits, especially at the early stages.

LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... The Kentucky statute states that a "person is guilty of inciting to riot
when he incites or urges five (5) or more persons to create or engage in a riot.
" ... Leaving aside for a moment the fact that the underlying riot statute might
violate freedom of assembly, the statutory scheme of incitement to riot
penalizes a gathering of three or more people that creates a clear and present
danger that the group will knowingly engage in tumultuous conduct that itself
creates a risk of causing public alarm. d.  ... Thus, if a disorderly conduct or
breach of the peace statute is unconstitutional as applied to individuals, it
must also be unconstitutional as applied to an assembly.  ... Although the
Supreme Court has not addressed incitement to riot, its doctrine on the
regulation of crowds that grow hostile towards a speaker is instructive.  ...
Brandenburg and Incitement to Riot: The Definition of Incitement Under
Brandenburg, any incitement-to-riot statute would have to address the speaker's
intent, the likelihood that an audience would understand the speech, the
imminence of the action, and the likelihood that the illegal activity would
occur.  ... The statute's definition of "riot" in fact includes "threats of the
commission of acts of violence . . . where the performance of the threatened act
or acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger of . . . damage
or injury to the property of any other person or to the person." ... This
suggests that incitement-to-riot statutes should regulate actual harm caused by
crowd behavior, not the interaction between a speaker and a crowd.  ...
Additionally, incitement-to-riot statutes already penalize groups as small as
three to ten people, suggesting that the internet's ability to reach masses has
no impact on the potential applicability of existing laws any more than it
impacts constitutional standards.  ... The act or conduct may not include the
mere oral or written advocacy of ideas or expression of belief that does not
urge the commission of an act of immediate violence.  ... As legislators and
courts deal with the inevitable backlash to flash mobs, they must reexamine
existing incitement-to-riot statutes to ensure compliance with the First
Amendment.

HIGHLIGHT: "[B]y collective effort individuals can make their views known, when,
individually, their voices would be faint or lost." n1


    "You know I have always made a study of the psychology, sociology of mob
reaction. It is exemplified out there . . . . Those mobs are chanting;


   that is the caveman's chant. They were trained to do it. They were trained
this afternoon. They are being led; there will be violence." n2


   "No one would have the hardihood to suggest that the principle of freedom of
speech sanctions incitement to riot." n3


   As people increasingly use social media to organize both protests and
robberies, government will try to regulate these calls to action. With an eye to
this intensifying dynamic, this Article reviews First Amendment jurisprudence on
incitement and applies it to existing statutes on incitement to riot at a common
law, state, and federal level. The article suggests that First Amendment
jurisprudence has a particularly tortuous relationship with regulating speech
directed to crowds.  It examines current crowd psychology to suggest which crowd
behavior, if any, should as a matter of policy be subject to regulation. It
concludes that many existing incitement-to-riot statutes are both bad policy and
unconstitutional under Brandenburg v. Ohio. n4 The article consequently suggests
that courts should be careful in the application of these statutes, and states
should be hesitant to build upon existing incitement-to-riot statutes to
regulate new media.


TEXT:
 [*3]

   I. Introduction


   In the past year, social media has spawned both revolutions and robberies. n5
Governments have consequently tried to create new laws to regulate this
behavior. n6 The law most worth examining, however, is not new. Many states
already criminalize incitement to riot, and the federal anti-riot statute
criminalizes the use of interstate commerce to incite riot. n7 No survey of
these laws or the underlying riot statutes currently exists that analyzes them
under the First Amendment. n8


   This Article reviews existing definitions of riot and incitement to riot
under common law, state statutes, and federal statutes, and creates a taxonomy
of the constitutional problems that arise. It aims to alert courts to the
problems inherent in existing state and federal statutes, and to encourage
states to avoid using these statutes as a basis for regulating social media.
Existing statutes are particularly ill-suited to dealing with how people
assemble in the age of the flash mob.


   Incitement-to-riot statutes present a fascinating First Amendment problem
because they implicate not one, but two protected freedoms: freedom of speech
and freedom of assembly. Banning incitement to riot is dangerous because if the
ban is overbroad, it can restrict not just speech, but the means by which people
assemble.  Incitement to riot differs from the usual fact patterns for freedom
of assembly cases in that  [*4]  the central question revolves around how
violent or disorderly a crowd may be before it loses First Amendment protection.
Incitement to riot thus provides an opportunity for a new discussion of what
peaceable freedom of assembly means.


   The second half of this Article shifts from a discussion of the
constitutionality of these statutes to a discussion of crowd behavior and the
justifications used for regulating crowds. Government regulation of crowds stems
from fundamental understandings-and misunderstandings-of the nature of crowd
activity. Regulation reveals a tension between conflicting understandings of the
nature of crowds. On the one hand, the crowd can represent the tyranny of the
majority against a minority; on the other, it can be a way for the powerless to
protest the powerful. Governments should not be able to claim that they are
protecting individuals against the majority when in fact they are protecting the
status quo against collective action by less powerful individuals.


   Thus, the second half of this Article examines both how legislators and
courts understood crowds in the past and how we understand them now. This Part
suggests that we need to reevaluate how crowds are regulated. It examines the
role of new media and ask whether it changes the calculation. This Articles
closes by proposing a model incitement-to-riot statute that takes Brandenburg
into account and is backed by a more current understanding of crowd behavior.


   People assemble for many reasons: for performance, for protest, and for
communication with their government. Often, the most effective feature of a
large gathering is that it visibly demonstrates collective power, which
sometimes creates fear. State riot laws that are based on regulating the mere
creation of fear or "public terror" thus strike at the heart of the power of
assembly. They are also likely unconstitutional under the First Amendment.


   Now is a particularly opportune time to rethink existing statutes on
incitement to riot and the underlying offense of riot. Many existing statutes
are overbroad and sweep in innocuous activity. One does not have to look at
their application to social media to see that these statutes are overbroad;
however, the use of social media for both democratic organization and
destructive purposes makes the scope of these statutes a more pertinent and
pressing issue.


   II. The Rise of Flash Mobs


   In January 2012, both Time Magazine and Wired Magazine celebrated the
previous year as a year of revolutions started on the internet. Time's "Person
of the Year" was The Protester: from the Arab Spring to  [*5]  Athens, from
Occupy Wall Street to Moscow. n9 Wired published an article entitled Riot: How
Social Media Fuels Social Unrest. n10


   The internet is a strikingly useful tool for organizing or creating crowds.
The phenomenon of the "flash mob" emerged in the early 2000s, when
improvisational comedy groups began using public space for spontaneous
performances by large groups of people brought together online. n11 Flash mobs
occur when a leader calls for a crowd to appear at a location, usually to
perform some act. A flash mob has several features: the announcer usually does
not know the full membership of the crowd; the crowd is told the time, place,
and, sometimes, the purpose of the gathering; and the crowd acts on the
announcement with no apparent incentive. n12


   At first, the flash mob served as comedy or lighthearted social commentary,
with large groups meeting to dance silently in public areas, shop for a love
rug, or freeze in place in Grand Central Station. n13 But as early as 2002, it
became apparent thatflash mobs could be effectively employed for political
purposes.  In that context, they have been referred to as "smart mobs." n14
Flash mobs have been used for political activism in the United States, to stage
protests against Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, and to protest the
totalitarian regime in Belarus. n15 More recently, dissidents employed flash mob
tactics during the Arab Spring. Thousands of Iranians organized via Twitter in
2009 to protest the elections, and more than 50,000 people gathered in Tahrir
Square in Egypt in 2010. Many of those who appeared were informed of the
gatherings through social media tools such as Twitter or Facebook. n16


   The same tools that make it easier to organize collective performance art or
start a revolution, however, have increasingly been used for committing
groupcrimes.  In cities across the United States, and more  [*6]  recently, in
the United Kingdom, n17 social media have been used to organize mobs for the
purpose of committing crimes. These "flash robs," as news media have been
describing them, use flash mob tactics to overwhelm local police forces and shop
owners by announcing a potential robbery. In 2010 and 2011, flash robs were
reported in Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey,
New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., and Canada. n18


   There has been some pushback on the assumption that these events were started
through social media. District of Columbia (D.C.) police have said that they
have no evidence that the group robberies in the D.C. area were organized
through social media. n19 In Ohio, it also appears that some of the violence did
not begin as a flash mob, though it may have been exacerbated by social media
once the violence started. n20 The investigation into one of the Maryland group
robberies the media had termed a flash rob found that the thieves had hatched
their plan on a  [*7]  bus. n21


   After a year of flash mob-associated violence, the term flash mob has taken
on a different meaning. "Mob" is no longer a tongue-in-cheek designation. n22 It
has now taken on the connotations of its original definition: "a large or
disorderly crowd; especially: one bent on riotous or destructive action." n23


   Some governments have taken action by targeting theresulting physical
assembly.  Philadelphia, for example, has imposed a 9:00 p.m. curfew on young
people to prevent large late-night gatherings. n24 In New Jersey, flash mob
participants have been charged with disorderly conduct or the obstruction of
public passages. n25 In March 2012, Virginia state police arrested thirty-one
protestors out of a group of 1000 people who showed up at the state capitol to
protest a bill that would require women to have an ultrasound before having an
abortion. n26 The protestors were not violent; the police claimed they were
called in because the group was "getting really large and we didn't want things
to get out of hand." n27


   Other governments have monitored, shut down, or regulated social media
instead of or in addition to regulating the resulting physical assembly. n28 In
northwest England, two men were jailed for inciting riot after the London
violence and robberies in the summer of 2011. n29 In San Francisco, cell phone
and mobile internet service were blocked in the public transportation system,
the BART, to prevent protests. n30 In Philadelphia, the FBI monitors social-
networking sites for flash mob activity. n31 Many towns have set up task forces
to address flash mobs. n32


   At least one government has recognized that there are already existing
statutes addressing both aspects of flash mob behavior: riot and incitement to
riot. In 2011, Cleveland City Council Members proposed an emergency ordinance,
Section 605.091, "prohibiting the improper use  [*8]  of social media to induce
persons to commit a criminal offense." The ACLU protested, and the Cleveland
mayor vetoed the initial proposed ordinance. n33 In December 2011, however,
Cleveland adopted a revised version of the ordinance that lists "electronic
media devices" as criminal tools used to incite riots. n34 The mayor did not
sign the revised ordinance, because he claimed the provisions "mirror state laws
already in place." n35 The new Section 605.011 bans incitement to riot, and adds
computers and cellular telephones to a list of items that can be considered
criminal tools when used illegally. n36


   The back-and-forth over the Cleveland ordinance is a window onto how existing
incitement-to-riot laws might be used to target the organizers of flash mobs. A
state or municipality with existing riot statutes and incitement-to-riot
statutes might assume, like Cleveland, that it can sweep social media into the
existing offense.


   The problem is that many existing incitement-to-riot statutes are likely
unconstitutional. However, they have either not been aired before courts or have
been misread.


   III. Hypotheticals


   Before reviewing existing statutes, it is worth getting a sense of what is at
stake if the law sweeps too broadly. It may seem entirely reasonable to have a
law against inciting a riot. The Supreme Court itself said in dicta that "[n]o
one would have the hardihood to suggest that the principle of freedom of speech
sanctions incitement to riot . . . ." n37 But that comment depends on a limited
understanding of incitement, and a limited understanding of riot. If "riot" is
defined broadly-which it often is-and "incitement" is not defined at all-which
it often is not-then incitement to riot can sweep in innocuous or even socially
beneficial activity.


   If a person tweets, "Let's meet all 70 of us in Times Square in 5 minutes to
rob a bank," it is reasonable for a government to desire to punish that speech.
If the tweet happens, and the robbery in fact occurs, the tweet could be
evidence of a number of things: direct participation in the robbery, aiding and
abetting the robbery, or conspiracy to commit the robbery. In fact, there is no
real need to go after the speaker for a  [*9]  crime of incitement to robbery or
incitement to riot, because the speaker's involvement in the robbery could be
punished through other means. But the author of the tweet could also
constitutionally be punished for incitement to riot if the tweet calls for a
large number of people to gather together to commit an unlawful act of force or
violence, is likely to be understood as calling for riot, and that riot is
imminent and likely to occur. n38


   If, by contrast, a person tweets only "meet in Times Square next month,"
things become more complicated. First, there is no underlying crime contemplated
on the face of the message. Second, because there is no number of people
mentioned, it is not clear that the speaker intends a large group to form.
Third, there is no indication that the speaker himself will be present. Fourth,
the time frame mentioned-"next month"-gives adequate time to police to prepare
for responding to the gathering, so regulating the tweet itself is less
justified and probably unconstitutional.


   Let us imagine that the speaker just wants to convene a small meeting between
friends, but in fact the tweet goes viral, a group of seventy people convenes in
response to it, and a riot begins. A vague incitement-to-riot statute could
sweep into its purview the speaker who does not intend for a riot to occur. It
risks using the benefit of hindsight to create after-the-fact penalties for
innocent speech.


   An incitement-to-riot law based on a broad definition of riot creates a
different problem. If a person tweets: "Larry and Curly, let's meet in Times
Square in 5 minutes and get rowdy," they might be liable under existing
incitement-to-riot statutes. This is because many states criminalize gatherings
of as few as two or three people under their riot statutes. Calling for more
than two people to show up somewhere and in some way disturb the public peace,
then, could constitute a crime under an incitement-to-riot statute that defines
riot too broadly.


   The way to prevent such over-expansive enforcement is to more carefully
define both riot and incitement to riot. When most of us think of "riot," we
think of large crowds that cause damage, like the UK riots of 2011. But the
statutory and common- law definitions of riot often include surprisingly small
gatherings that do not cause physical damage at all. Supreme Court doctrine
controls the definition of incitement, requiring intent, and that the lawless
acts be both imminent and likely to occur. Many incitement-to-riot statutory
schemes do not require intent, imminence, or likelihood of riot.

     [*10]

   IV. The Statutes


   Nearly all states have statutes addressing riot, and many have statutes on
inciting riot. There are two steps involved in examining an incitement-to-riot
statute. First, we can look at how the statute defines "incitement." This
entails examining whether the statute includes any language on the imminence of
the riot, or the likelihood that the riot will occur. The required intent is
important, too.  This examination gives rise to a more traditional Brandenburg
analysis that considers whether the incitement portion of the statute by itself
maps onto current First Amendment doctrine on incitement. This is where most
courts have found problems with existing incitement-to-riot laws, if they have
found problems at all.


   Second, incitement-to-riot statutes are based on the underlying crime of riot
.  The underlying definition of "riot" in a number of states is likely
unconstitutional because it violates freedom of assembly. A law that bans large
assemblies that are physically harmful or destructive is likely constitutional.
Many state riot laws, however, do not define "riot" in this way. In fact, many
state riot statutes ban surprisingly small assemblies that do no more than
create public fear, rather than cause physical harm.


   Before applying First Amendment jurisprudence, this Part reviews and
categorizes existing laws on both incitement to riot and the underlying crime of
riot.


   A. Incitement to Riot


   Incitement to riot is a statutory crime in many states, as well as under
federal law. n39 Some states have common-law incitement to riot, rather than a
statute. n40 There is no Model Penal Code section on incitement to riot, so the
variation between states is fairly broad.


   There are roughly five kinds of incitement-to-riot statutes, with additional
variations within the five categories. The most basic kind of incitement-to-riot
statute simply criminalizes committing an act "that urges other persons to riot
." n41 South Carolina criminalizes "instigating,  [*11]  promoting, or aiding [a
riot]," n42 and New York makes it a crime when a person "urges" other people to
commit the statutory definition of "riot." n43 I group these statutes together
because they do not on their faces define incitement or an equivalent term. n44



   A second, directly related incitement statute is the Federal Anti-Riot Act.
The Federal Anti-Riot Act, enacted in 1968, bans interstate travel or the use of
interstate commerce, including the mail, with intent to incite a riot and an
overt act done for that purpose. n45 Like the first type of statute discussed
above, the Federal Anti-Riot Act does not define incitement. But it differs from
statutes that simply criminalize inciting to riot, because it requires the use
of interstate commerce. Courts have addressed the Federal Anti-Riot Act in
varying ways, and for the most part have upheld its constitutionality; I discuss
these further below.


   A third type of incitement-to-riot statute defines incitement on its face as
including the clear and present danger test. A number of state legislatures have
recognized that current First Amendment doctrine requires that for the speaker
to be punished, the unlawful act must be imminent. n46 The Arkansas, California,
Georgia, Kansas, and North Dakota statutes thus all contain language requiring
that incitement create a clear and present danger of something, ranging from
riot more generally, to physical harm caused by the riot. n47 The Arkansas
statute, for example, states that a person commits the offense of inciting riot
if he knowingly "urges others to participate in a riot under circumstances that
produce a clear and present danger that they will participate in a riot." n48
The Georgia statute similarly criminalizes urging others to riot "under
circumstances which produce a clear and present danger of a riot . . . ." n49
Kansas criminalizes urging others to riot "under  [*12]  circumstances which
produce a clear and present danger of injury to persons or property or a branch
of the public peace." n50


   A fourth kind of incitement to riot focuses on likelihood of a riot rather
than imminence. Pennsylvania, which has common law incitement to riot, neglects
to address how soon a riot might occur, but instead requires that it must be
likely to occur as an outcome of the speech. A defendant is guilty of inciting a
riot in Pennsylvania if the language used would naturally lead or urge other
people to engage in conduct that would create a riot. n51


   Finally, some states criminalize incitement to riot only in the context of an
already occurring riot, or a riot that is about to occur. For example, South
Dakota and Virginia criminalize directing persons participating in a riot to
commit acts of force or violence. n52 Colorado punishes inciting a group to
"engage in a current or impending riot," or giving commands "in furtherance of a
riot." n53


   States also vary in how they address requisite intent for incitement to riot.
In California, one must intend to cause a riot. n54 It is not clear, however,
that one has to intend for that riot to be imminent. By contrast, in Kansas, the
inciter must only knowingly urge others to engage in riot, under circumstances
that produce a clear and present danger of a breach of the public peace. n55 The
inciter need not intend for the riot, or the resulting damage, to occur.
Similarly, Montana's statute requires purposely and knowingly committing an act
that urges riot, rather than intending to urge riot. n56 This could penalize a
person who knowingly sends out a tweet calling only for people to gather, if
that gathering actually results in a riot. New York contains no intent
requirement at all, penalizing urging to riot. n57 Georgia strangely requires
that the speaker have intent to riot, not intent to urge others to riot. n58
Nevada criminalizes willfully publishing or knowingly circulating any book or
other printed matter, in any form, inciting the commission of any crime. n59
This cannot be constitutional, since (1) the willfulness attaches to publication
or circulation, rather than the incitement of the crime, and (2) there is no
mention of imminence or likelihood at all. There are further First Amendment
problems with this  [*13]  kind of liability for publishers. n60


   B. But What is a Riot?


   Examining these five kinds of incitement-to-riot statutes and the kind of
intent they require gives a general idea of how broadly incitement to riot can
vary. But it does not show the whole picture. If we limit the examination of
incitement-to-riot statutes to the definition of the word incitement, in the way
most courts have tended to address them, n61 we miss First Amendment problems
that arise based on the underlying definition of riot.


   The crime of riot in many states is not limited to large gatherings that
cause destruction or harm. Riot often does not require a large group; many
states operate on the common law idea that "three's a crowd." Additionally, in
many states, riot is a crime that is already a step removed from any actual
harm.


   Inciting a riot differs from inciting somebody to rob a bank, because the
definition of the underlying crime of riot has First Amendment implications as
well.  In many states, the definition of riot itself impinges on freedom of
assembly.  Additionally, inciting a riot differs from inciting somebody to rob a
bank because the underlying definition of riot is often based on the creation of
a risk or threat of harm, rather than physical damage. While inciting somebody
to rob a bank can result in direct harm (the bank robbery), inciting a riot can
mean that you spur others to in turn create a risk of harm, rather than harm
itself.


   Under an incitement-to-riot scheme based on this kind of riot statute, police
would be empowered to go after a speaker for calling for a gathering that
creates a risk of harm, rather than calling for a gathering the purpose of which
is to harm somebody or something. The incitement-to-riot standard that defines
riot as a gathering that creates a risk of harm allows police to conjecture,
before a crowd is actually gathered, that a speaker will, by assembling a crowd,
create arisk of harm.  This gives too much leeway to the government in
determining when a risk will or will not be created. As one federal court has
noted, the "imminence of danger or of unlawful activity depends upon the
immediate circumstances surrounding the expression, including the content of
expression, size and makeup of the speakers and audience,  [*14]  and the
sufficiency of the police presence." n62 While it may be constitutional to allow
police to stop the threat of harm created by an already existing crowd, it is
not constitutional to allow them to arrest a speaker for intentionally calling
for what police perceive to be a risky situation, rather than for calling for
harm itself. I call this type of problem, where the underlying definition of
riot is based on risk rather than harm, an attenuation problem, because the
speaker's speech and intent are several steps removed from any real physical
danger.


   This Part therefore begins discussion of incitement to riot by outlining the
parameters of the legal definition of the underlying crime of riot. Where that
definition is based on minor harm only, or a threat or risk of harm, it creates
problems for criminalizing incitement to riot.


   I begin by looking at the common law definition of riot and the associated
crimes of unlawful assembly and rout. Then, I outline a classification system
for assessing the different kinds of state riot laws and address the Model Penal
Code's definition of riot, which forms the basis for a number of state statutes.
Finally, I discuss how the Federal Anti-Riot Act compares to state laws.


   1. Common Law Riot


   Rioting is punishable at common law, n63 although most states now have
statutes to address it. n64 In England, the crime arose from at least four
Parliamentary enactments promulgated in 1328, 1549, 1553, and 1714. n65


   In its earliest manifestations, riot was associated with treason, when the
tumultuous activity of crowds threatened the King. n66 Over time, it became an
offense against the public peace. n67 These origins are important because one of
the fundamental problems with current riot statutes is the treatment of riot as
an offense against the public peace rather than a crime involving actual
violence or damage.


   The common law typically required an assembly of only three people  [*15]
for a riot, a surprisingly small number. n68 Riot was part of a trio of related
escalating offenses. The first such offense was unlawful assembly; the second,
rout; and the third, riot. n69 Blackstone defines unlawful assembly as an
assembly "when three, or more, do assemble themselves together to do an unlawful
act . . . ." n70 A rout occurs "where three or more meet to do an unlawful act .
. . and make some advances towards it." n71 A riot occurs "where three or more
actually do an unlawful act of violence . . . or even do a lawful act . . . in a
violent and tumultuous manner." n72


   Most states now criminalize both "unlawful assembly" and "riot," but no
longer criminalize "rout."  n73 State legislative commentary indicates a slight
variation on Blackstone's taxonomy. Unlawful assembly proscribes assembly for
the purpose of engaging in riot, n74 or with the intent to carry out a common
purpose in such a manner as to cause nearby persons to fear a breach of the
peace. n75 Rout consists of an act towards the unlawful purpose, without its
completion. n76 Riot is the culmination of the two offenses, resulting in force
and violence that threatens someone publicly. n77


   This definition of riot differs from Blackstone because it fails to mention
the performance of a lawful act in a tumultuous manner. This variation is
significant, because it is at the heart of the problem with many current riot
statutes. As mentioned, riot, rout, and unlawful  [*16]  assembly were
originally designed to protect the public peace. The public peace is defined as
"that tranquility enjoyed by a community when good order reigns amongst its
members." n78 Common law alternatively refers to these offenses as offenses done
in terrorem populi, offenses that create public terror. n79


   Because the original goal of regulating riot was to protect the public peace,
riot under Blackstone's definition includes acts that are not themselves
unlawful, but that are executed "in a violent and turbulent manner to the terror
of the people." n80 This understanding has made its way into many state
statutes.  At least one court has decided that it is possible to have a riot
even if no people are actually shown to be terrified, as long as the violent and
turbulent acts tend to terrify the public. n81


   Common-law riot and many of its statutory derivatives are based on the idea
that the government should be able to protect the public from fear. Large crowds
often inherently cause fear or create disturbances. Courts have justified the
regulation of riot by explaining that the presence of a large crowd can itself
make an otherwise innocent action violate the public peace. n82 The threat of
riot more generally arises "because of the plurality of actors and potential
uncontrollability of a mob." n83


   Thus, at the heart of the original definition of "riot" there lies a
particular understanding of the nature of crowd action and the impact it can
have. Assessing the size of a crowd for purposes of determining the potential
for control (or lack thereof) by police or potential damagecaused is likely
constitutionally permissible.  But assessing the size of a crowd for determining
whether the public might fear it is not.


   Viewed from a First Amendment perspective, the definition of riot founded on
public peace is troubling. The creation of fear or public discomfort is often
part of the goal of large gatherings and is an essential element of freedom of
assembly.  Assembly, in fact, works as a tool of expression because it often
creates discomfort in the general public. Part VI(A) (on freedom of assembly)
will return to this question of whether protection of the public peace is a
constitutionally acceptable goal.

     [*17]

   2. State Laws


   Riot statutes are usually included within a statutory framework of related
statutes aimed at penalizing the disruption of public order. In many states, the
same statutory chapter frequently houses laws criminalizing disorderly conduct,
fighting words, n84 and disruption or disturbance of a funeral service. n85 Many
other statutes under these chapters have been found unconstitutional, such as
the disorderly conduct statutes addressing breach of the peace. n86


   Despite the relatively clear common law origins of the crime of riot, state
anti-riot laws differ substantially along a number of dimensions. Nobody has
examined in detail what these differences entail, or what their significance
might be under the First Amendment. n87


   First, states vary in how many people are required for an assembly to be
considered a riot. Second, they vary greatly in what activity the assembly must
engage in, from mere threats to actual violence. Third, states differ in the
amount of injury or damage required. And fourth, they differ in the level of
required knowledge or intent.


   a. The Number of People Required


   One of the justifications for anti-riot measures is that actions or
intentions that might not be harmful when performed by an individual are harmful
when performed by a large group. n88 This is the reasoning behind an early
Kentucky case that recognized that conspiracy to use violence in the context of
a riot "derives its indictability from the plurality of persons concerned . . .
." n89 Many states, however,define the crime of riot as requiring only a small
number of people.  It cannot be the case that those state laws that define riot
as involving as few as two or three people protect against harms specific to
large gatherings, since they criminalize even small assemblies.


   The minimum number of people required for an assembly to be considered a riot
varies from a mere two people n90 to seven people. n91  [*18]  Four states
require only two people for a gathering to eligible to be a riot. n92 The bulk
of states require a minimum of three people under statute or at common law. n93
The next most prevalent requirement is a minimum of five people. n94 Four states
require six people, n95 and only two states require at least seven people for a
gathering to come within the purview of the riot law. n96 The small size of the
required gatherings is interesting, and even surprising, because one
justification for regulating riot, discussed above, is the understanding that a
large crowd creates additional risk- either of harm, or of a breach of the
peace. But two or three or even five people is not a large crowd.


   One of the other ways in which riot statutes vary is the amount of harm
required. The discrepancies in the number of people required for a riot might be
understandable if states with lower numerical requirements criminalized the
group's conduct only when it caused actual harm, while the states with higher
numerical requirements penalized the larger group for creating a heightened risk
of harm due to larger numbers. This would prevent smaller groups from being
over-penalized for merely gathering. Massachusetts law provides an example of
this type of reasoning: the state allows officials to disperse a group of five
people if they are armed, and ten people if they are not armed. n97


   Unfortunately, most states do not follow this reasoning. Georgia penalizes
the performance of a lawful act if it is done in a "violent and tumultuous
manner," even though Georgia requires only two people for  [*19]  a riot. n98
California, which also requires only two people for riot, penalizes any threat
of force or violence, if accompanied by immediate power of execution. n99 Of the
states that require two people for a riot, only one- Illinois-explicitly
requires the actual use, rather than the threat of, illegal force or violence.
n100 There is no recognition that the "gathering" of only two people probably
does not exacerbate otherwise legal activity to the point of creating a
heightened risk of harm, or even public terror.


   Thus, even if one accepts the prevention of public fear as a constitutional
goal (which I do not), penalizing a gathering of two people for performing a
lawful act in a "tumultuous manner" cannot be justified by saying that crowd
dynamics require more regulation than individual actions.


   b. The Group's Actions


   This brings us to a second dimension of riot statutes: variations in the
nature of the activity the group must engage in for the gathering to be
considered a riot.  State anti-riot laws range from penalizing the use of force
or violence, to penalizing creation of the risk of violence, to penalizing mere
disorderly conduct.


   A 1985 American Law Report annotation examined what conduct is required to
establish the crime of riot. The annotation reviewed case law, but did not look
at the underlying statutory language. n101 Nonetheless, its observations are
useful as a starting point. The annotation observed that some courts require
that alleged acts must be unlawful. n102 Other courts established two kinds of
riot: those consisting of unlawful acts and those consisting of lawful acts done
in a violent and tumultuous manner. n103 Some courts required both tumult and
violence, n104 while others noted that the strength of defendants' numbers made
it unnecessary to show even noise, boisterousness, or tumult. n105


   The statutes themselves clarify these standards. State anti-riot statutes
require one of the following for a gathering to be considered a riot: the use of
force or violence, engagement in "tumultuous and violent  [*20]  conduct,"
participation in disorderly conduct, the threat of force or violence, or the
threat of tumultuous and violent conduct.


   Only a handful of state laws define riot as involving, at minimum, the actual
use of force or violence by the gathered group. Virginia bans assembly with the
"unlawful use . . . of force or violence which seriously jeopardizes the public
safety, peace or order . . . ." n106 Missouri bans the group violation of any
criminal law with force or violence. n107 Iowa bans groups "assembled together
in a violent manner, to the disturbance of others, and with any use of unlawful
force or violence by them or any of them . . . ." n108


   A number of states define riot not as requiring the use of force and
violence, but as involving group engagement in "tumultuous and violent conduct."
n109 It is not entirely clear what this means. It may just be another way of
describing the use of force and violence, or it might describe the lesser
misdeed of being an unruly crowd.


   For example, at one end of the spectrum, Indiana understands tumultuous
conduct as the use of actual force or violence, defining it as conduct that
results in or is likely to result in serious bodily injury to a person or
substantial property damage. n110 At the other end of the spectrum, Connecticut
appears to understand tumultuous conduct as frightening conduct rather than
physically harmful conduct, penalizing riot in the first degree where the use of
tumultuous conduct recklessly causes or creates a grave risk of public alarm.
n111 Maryland courts similarly penalize assembling "in such a violent or
turbulent manner as to terrify others." n112


   The statutory use of "force and violence" may initially have been understood
not to be referring to physicalforce, and thus was synonymous with "tumultuous
conduct." For example, when the Virginia statute bans the unlawful use of force
or violence that seriously jeopardizes the public peace, it may in fact be
referring to disorderly conduct and not force as we traditionally understand it.
A 1920 case in Massachusetts, Commonwealth v. Frishman, explained that "[i]f
[*21]  defendants were acting in concert with others for a common unlawful
purpose, that is, by force and violence to march or parade on a public street
without permission . . . it was not necessary, to constitute a riot, that all
should commit some physical act." n113 In Massachusetts at least, the mere
disorderly gathering of the group, with a physical act by one or more member of
the group, is sufficient to constitute a riot, even when "force or violence" is
a statutory element of the crime.


   Several state anti-riot laws mirror the Model Penal Code by banning group
participation in a "course of disorderly conduct." However, those states add an
intentionality requirement to the action so that they do not ban disorderly
conduct alone. Instead, they require that the disorderly conduct be performed
with the intent to do something, such as commit a felony, n114 commit or
facilitate a misdemeanor, n115 intimidate an official, or obstruct a function of
government. n116 These states also ban group participation in disorderly
conduct, where a participant uses or plans to use a firearm or other deadly
weapon, or knows that another participant plans to use a weapon. n117


   A surprising number of states penalize the mere threat of force or violence,
rather than actual force or violence. n118 In Arizona, California, Kansas, and
Oklahoma, that threat must be accompanied by the immediate power of execution,
but there is no requirement that execution in fact be likely. n119 For example,
the Arizona statute defines riot as including when a "person . . . threatens to
use force or violence, if such threat is accompanied by immediate power of
execution, which disturbs the public peace." n120 In California and Minnesota,
the force that is being threatened must also be unlawful. n121 In Minnesota, the
requirement of immediate power of execution of such a threat has been read into
the statute by courts. n122 In Washington and Minnesota, the threatened use of
force must be against another person or property. n123


   Three states penalize the threat of tumultuous and violent conduct  [*22]
instead of a threat of force or violence. n124 However, these states require
that the threat of tumultuous and violent conduct create a clear and present
danger (or grave danger) of "injury or damage" to persons or property. n125


   c. The Injury or Damage Required


   States vary in how many people are required for a riot-from two to seven-and
what those people must do once assembled-from threatening tumultuous conduct, to
engaging in disorderly conduct, to committing physical violence. The next
dimension across which states vary is in the kind of injury or damage required
from the group conduct, if any.


   State requirements range from a risk of disturbance to the public peace, to
the actual disturbance of the public peace, to physical injury and property
damage. The damage requirement is perhaps the most important distinction between
riot statutes, because it indicates whether the statute is based on preventing a
breach of the public peace or on preventing harm to other people or property.


   Starting with the highest bar to prosecution, at least two states require
physical injury or property damage. In New York, riot in the first degree
requires "physical injury or substantial property damage" to result from
tumultuous and violent conduct causing a risk of public alarm. n126 In Iowa, the
use of unlawful force or violence must be against another person or cause
property damage. n127 Virginia penalizes the unlawful use of force or violence
that "seriously jeopardizes the public safety, peace or order." n128 Even though
Virginia does not explicitly state that it requires injury or damage, it might
be implied because it requires the use of force or violence. But as discussed
above, "force or violence" under common law sometimes in fact means disorderly
conduct. One hopes that a current court would interpret the phrase more strictly
to  [*23]  mean actual physical violence.


   Several courts have agreed, however, that neither property damage nor
personal injury is necessary for a conviction for riot. n129 Some states require
only the creation of a risk of physical injury or property damage, while others
require even less: a threat of injury or damage, without a likelihood that the
threat will actually be executed. The last category of statutes requires no risk
of damage or threat of damage-just a risk of public alarm.


   A number of states do not require that the group actually cause damage;
rather it must only create a danger of physical injury or property damage. n130
Some of these laws require likelihood of damage to person or property; n131
others require a substantial risk of damage; n132 others require a "grave
danger" of damage; n133 and others require a clear and present danger of damage.
n134


   Several states do not require damage or a risk of damage. These states
require that the group disturb public peace through a threat of force or
violence without a requirement that the threat be likely to be acted on. Thus,
although at first reading these statutes may look like they require force and
violence, they in fact require only an actionable threat that disturbs the
public peace. Arizona penalizes a threat of force or violence that disturbs the
public peace when that threat is accompanied by immediate power of execution.
n135 But Arizona does not state that the threat must in fact be likely to be
acted on, or must cause a reasonable fear of bodily harm. n136 Minnesota
similarly criminalizes the disturbance of the public peace by a "threat of
unlawful force or violence to person or property." n137 Courts in Minnesota have
added in a requirement that the threatener have the immediate power of
execution, though like Arizona they did not add the requirement that it  [*24]
be likely that the threat will be acted on and damage will in fact be done. n138


   A number of states penalize group actions that create only a risk of public
alarm. n139 In Arkansas and New Hampshire, the risk of public alarm must be
"substantial," n140 but this does not mitigate the problem. Because they are so
problematic, these statutes are outlined individually below.


   In Arkansas, a "person commits the offense of riot if, with two (2) or more
other persons, he or she knowingly engages in tumultuous or violent conduct that
creates a substantial risk of: (1) Causing public alarm," among other things.
n141 In Arkansas, a person can be penalized under this riot statute by being
part of a three-person gathering and knowingly engaging in tumultuous conduct
that creates a risk of public alarm.


   In Alabama, a "person commits the crime of riot if, with five or more other
persons, he wrongfully engages in tumultuous and violent conduct and thereby
intentionally or recklessly causes or creates a grave risk of public terror or
alarm." n142 On a facial reading, this statute criminalizes gathering as a
six-person group, and "wrongfully" engaging in "tumultuous and violent" conduct,
recklessly creating a grave risk of public alarm. A 1981 Alabama criminal case
narrowed the scope of this statute slightly by explaining that "tumultuous and
violent conduct" means more than loud noise or disturbance, describing such
conduct as ominous threats of injury, stone throwing, or other terrorizing acts.
n143 The court also explained, however, that the statute requires only conduct
that causes a grave risk of terror, and where the nature of the conduct is
calculated to cause terror it may be a riot even if only one person was in fact
terrified.


   In Connecticut, a "person is guilty of riot in the first degree when
simultaneously with six or more other persons he engages in tumultuous and
violent conduct and thereby intentionally or recklessly causes or creates a
grave risk of causing public alarm." n144 This is potentially more  [*25]
encompassing than the Arkansas statute, because it requires only recklessness
rather than knowledge. New York has a similar riot statute. However, like the
Alabama statute, the Connecticut and New York statutes link "tumultuous and
violent conduct" where the Arkansas statute describes them as distinct things:
"tumultuous or violent." Remember that riot in the first degree in New York does
contain a requirement of "physical injury or substantial property damage,"
implying that riot in the second degree does not.



   In New Hampshire, a person is guilty of riot if "he engages in tumultuous or
violent conduct and thereby purposely or recklessly creates a substantial risk
of causing public alarm." n145 New Hampshire courts have recognized that this
statute is problematic, and read into the statute a requirement that the crowd
intentionally embark on concerted criminal (unlawful) action. n146 The statute
could not apply to peaceable assembles with minor incidental breaches of law by
some of the participants. n147


   This final category of damage-a risk of public alarm-is the most problematic
category, because of the tension between freedom of assembly and public fear.
Whether these statutes are unconstitutional violations of freedom of assembly
likely depends on how "tumultuous and violent conduct" is defined. Part VI(A)
(freedom of assembly section) addresses this further.


   d. The Level of Knowledge or Intent


   The last significant variation in state riot statutes is the variation in the
level of knowledge or intent required by participants. A number of states have
no mention of the level of intent required, so the presumption is that the
required intent is recklessness. n148 Several states explicitly require only
recklessness. n149 On the other hand, a number of states require action "with
intent" or "with purpose." For example, the category of states that require only
disorderly conduct require that disorderly conduct be committed with the intent
to commit a felony, or  [*26]  commit or facilitate a misdemeanor, or prevent or
coerce official action. n150


   A number of states require knowledge. Tennessee penalizes a person "who
knowingly participates in a riot." n151 Washington penalizes a person who
knowingly uses or threatens to use force. n152 Arkansas confusingly penalizes
knowingly engaging in tumultuous or violence conduct that creates a substantial
risk of one of three outcomes; but it is not clear if the knowledge must extend
to the outcome, or only the participation in the tumultuous conduct. n153 And
the above-mentioned category of states that penalize disorderly conduct with
intent also penalize disorderly conduct with mere knowledge where that knowledge
is that a participant plans to use a firearm or other deadly weapon. n154


   In some states, the riot statute makes it explicit that the intent must be
shared by the whole group. In Georgia, for example, participants in a riot must
have a shared intent to do an unlawful act of violence, or some other act in a
violent and tumultuous manner. n155 In South Dakota, participants must be
"acting together." n156 In Louisiana, persons must be acting together or in
concert. n157 Maryland requires that participants be "assembled to carry out a
common purpose." n158 These joint intent questions go to the issues raised by
the Supreme Court in NAACP v. Claiborne, n159 on whether a person can be liable
for actions of the group as a whole. Presumably, NAACP requires shared intent in
order for one individual in a group to be liable for the actions of another
individual.


   3. Model Penal Code


   Under the Model Penal Code, a person is guilty of riot "if he participates
with [two] or more others in a course of disorderly conduct: (a) with purpose to
commit or facilitate the commission or a felony or misdemeanor; (b) with purpose
to prevent or coerce official action; or (c) when the actor or any other
participant to the knowledge of the actor uses or plans to use a firearm or
other deadly weapon." n160 A number of  [*27]  states have adopted the Model
Penal Code's formulation essentially verbatim, n161 or with only small changes.
n162


   Disorderly conduct itself is an offense under the Model Penal Code, under
section 250.2. Its definition includes acting with a purpose "to cause
substantial harm or serious inconvenience" after reasonable warning or request
to desist. n163 So, to commit riot under the Model Penal Code and statutes based
on the Model Penal Code, one must engage in tumultuous behavior that recklessly
creates a risk of public inconvenience, with the purpose of committing a felony
or misdemeanor, or with the purpose of preventing or coercing official action,
or with the knowledge that another participant plans to use a deadly weapon.


   4. The Federal Anti-Riot Act


   In 1968, one year before Brandenburg was decided, Congress enacted the
Federal Anti-Riot Act. n164 The Anti-Riot Act differs from state riot laws in
that it does not criminalize rioting itself. Instead, it criminalizes interstate
travel or the use of interstate commerce, including the use of mail, telephone,
or radio, with intent to do one of four things: (A) incite a riot; (B) organize,
promote, encourage, participate in, or carry on a riot; (C) commit any act of
violence in furtherance of a riot; or (D) aid or abet any person in inciting,
participating in, or carrying on a riot, with an overt act for that purpose.
n165


   Despite the fact that federal law does not criminalize rioting itself, it
does define "riot." n166 Consistent with the common law definition, Congress
defined "riot" as a public disturbance involving an assemblage of three or more
persons. n167 To be a riot, that public disturbance must involve either an act
of violence or a threat of the commission of an act of violence. n168 For a
threat of violence to constitute riot, the group of people must individually or
collectively have the ability to immediately execute the threat with actual
violence. n169 That act of violence must in turn either result in damage or pose
a clear and present danger of  [*28]  damage or injury. n170


   This definition, like many of the state law definitions of riot, contains
both a clearly unproblematic description of riot and a more problematic version.
One can imagine an unproblematic scenario involving three or more people
assembling to create a public disturbance involving an act of violence that
damages or injures property or a person. The more problematic scenario involves
three or more people creating a public disturbance by threatening to commit an
act of violence that would not actually damage anything or anyone but could
create a clear and present danger of damage. The threat must be backed up by at
least one person's ability to immediately execute it. However, the statute says
nothing about the intent of the other members of the group if only one person is
making the threat, and it says nothing about the likelihood that the violence
would be committed, only the individual's ability to carry it out.


   This definition of riot is made more problematic by the fact that what
federal law actually bans is not the riot itself, but interstate travel or
interstate communication with intent to incite a riot, organize a riot, or aid
and abet a person in inciting a riot. A number of courts have considered the
constitutionality of the Anti-Riot Act; these cases will be discussed below.
n171


   C. Examples of Potentially Problematic Statutes and Statutory Schemes


   The potential constitutional problems with incitement to riot occur on three
planes. The first is in the definition of incitement, where the statute might
not contain an adequate definition of the elements of incitement, or any
definition at all. The Supreme Court in Brandenburg explained that for a state
to constitutionally criminalize incitement to an unlawful action, the speech
must be "directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and [be]
likely to incite or produce such action." n172 Many states do not include these
requirements. The second potential constitutional problem is in the definition
of riot, which might itself violate freedom of assembly. And the third occurs as
a combination of the two statutes: where incitement to riot might present a
statutory scheme in which speech is attenuated from actual harm. The third
problem leads to two key questions about Brandenburg: first, whether it applies
to "lawless" action, or to harmful action, and second, how the imminence
standard applies to a harm that itself contains an  [*29]  imminence standard.
n173


   1. Incitement Definition Problem


   Kentucky's incitement-to-riot statute is an example of a statute that fails
to include any definition of the term "incitement," and thus fails to include on
its face the First Amendment's requirements. The Kentucky statute states that a
"person is guilty of inciting to riot when he incites or urges five (5) or more
persons to create or engage in a riot." n174 There is no mention of imminence,
likelihood, or intent. In fact, Kentucky goes further than many states, and is
explicit in the legislative history that it does not require even a clear and
present danger test. The 1974 Kentucky legislative commentary explains that
"urging creates a grave danger of property damage, personal injury, or
substantial obstruction of governmental function. It is felt that this standard
protects the freedom of speech without allowing the situation to develop to the
point where there is a clear and present danger of riot." n175


   Note that the Federal Anti-Riot Statute, like Kentucky, also does not on its
face contain any of the elements of "incitement" required by the First
Amendment.


   2. Riot Might Violate Freedom of Assembly


   Arkansas's riot statute is an example of a statute that may violate freedom
of assembly because it penalizes tumultuous conduct that causes public alarm,
rather than physically violent conduct that causes physical harm. In Arkansas,
"a person commits the offense of riot if, with two (2) or more other persons, he
or she knowingly engages in tumultuous or violent conduct that creates a
substantial risk of . . . causing public alarm," among other things. n176 Courts
in New Hampshire narrowed a similar statute to intentional criminal action,
recognizing the problems in the breadth of the definition. n177


   A second type of riot statute that might present problems for freedom of
assembly is the kind regarding threats of violence rather than violence itself.
Arizona penalizes a threat of force or violence that disturbs the public peace
when that threat is accompanied by immediate power of  [*30]  execution. n178 In
1976, an Arizona court found this definition neither vague nor overbroad. n179
The question presented is whether "peaceable assembly" means assembly that is
not violent (an assembly where violence is merely threatened is not in fact yet
a violent assembly), or assembly that does not even threaten violence. This is
actually somewhat of an open question under Supreme Court doctrine.


   3. The Combination of Incitement and Riot Attenuates from Actual Harm


   The third type of problematic statute creates an additional layer of
attenuation between the call for action and any actual harm. There are four
types of harm attenuation that result from combining incitement to riot with the
different underlying definitions of riot. The problem arises because of the
combined statutory scheme, not necessarily because either element is itself
unconstitutional.


   The first type of attenuation occurs when riot is defined to include a threat
of harm. The second type occurs when riot is defined as creating a risk of harm.
The third type is when riot is defined as causing public alarm (which, as
mentioned, is itself likely an unconstitutional violation of freedom of
assembly). The fourth type of attenuation concerns the Model Penal Code scheme,
which defines riot as disorderly conduct with intent.


   Attenuation is problematic because it requires guesswork by the government
about the potential risk in a situation that does not yet exist. The crime of
inciting a group to commit violence is potentially worth preventing. But when a
person calls for a group to gather and police are asked to determine if the call
creates a risk of harm, that gives too much discretion to police, because
without an actual gathering they lack the necessary information about whether
the risk will be real-including the adequacy of police presence, the number of
people present, and the rowdiness of the actual crowd.


   a. Riot Based on a Threat of Harm


   Four states have an underlying definition of riot based on creating a threat
of harm, rather than harm itself: Kansas, Louisiana, Montana, and  [*31]  North
Carolina. n180 Of these states, Louisiana's statute is perhaps the best bad
example, since the other states have attempted to mitigate the damage. n181


   Louisiana defines inciting to riot as follows: "Inciting to riot is the
endeavor by any person to incite or procure any other person to create or
participate in a riot." n182 A court read in the requirement that incitement to
riot include both willfulness and immediacy. n183 The underlying definition of
riot in Louisiana is:


   [A] public disturbance involving an assemblage of three or more persons
acting together or in concert which by tumultuous and violent conduct, or the
imminent threat of tumultuous and violent conduct, results in injury or damage
to persons or property or creates a clear and present danger of injury or damage
to persons or property. n184


   Read in the most problematic way, this statute criminalizes an assemblage
which by the imminent threat of tumultuous and violent conduct creates a clear
and present danger of injury or damage to persons or property. So inciting to
riot in Louisiana, without further narrowing by courts, can consist of wilfully
inciting an imminent assembly to an imminent threat of tumultuous conduct that
itself creates a clear and present danger of damage. The three levels of
imminence-the assembly is imminent, the threat of tumultuous conduct is
imminent, and the danger of damage posed by the threat is imminent (or clear and
present)-mean that the actual call for action is three imminences removed from
real damage. Louisiana courts have upheld this definition  [*32]  despite
overbreadth and vagueness challenges. n185


   b. Riot as a Risk of Harm


   The second type of attenuation from harm occurs when the underlying riot
statute contains a definition of riot that encompasses the creation of a risk of
harm.  Colorado, Kentucky, Arkansas, and Tennessee all include risk of some kind
of harm in their definition of riot. n186


   In Tennessee, riot is "a disturbance in a public place . . . involving an
assemblage of three (3) or more persons which, by tumultuous and violent
conduct, creates grave danger of substantial damage to property or serious
bodily injury to persons or substantially obstructs law enforcement or other
governmental function . . . ." n187 A person who incites a riot simply "incites
or urges three (3) or more persons to create or engage in a riot." n188 A
Tennessee court found this statute not overbroad, construing it to cover only
conduct directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action. But this
ignores the underlying problem with defining riot itself as risk-based. If "riot
" is lawless action, then inciting riot would be constitutional under this
standard, no matter the definition of riot, and notwithstanding any attenuation.
n189



   c. Riot as Public Alarm or a Risk of Public Alarm


   As discussed, a number of states define riot as the creation of public alarm
or a risk of public alarm. Arkansas penalizes "the offense of riot if, with two
(2) or more other persons, he or she knowingly engages in tumultuous or violent
conduct that creates a substantial risk of: (1) Causing public alarm . . . ."
n190 Incitement to riot in Arkansas is defined as "knowingly: (1) [b]y speech or
conduct urg[ing] others to participate in a riot under circumstances that
produce a clear and present danger that they will participate in a riot . . . ."
n191 Leaving aside for a moment  [*33]  the fact that the underlying riot
statute might violate freedom of assembly, the statutory scheme of incitement to
riot penalizes a gathering of three or more people that creates a clear and
present danger that the group will knowingly engage in tumultuous conduct that
itself creates a risk of causing public alarm.


   d. Model Penal Code Riot


   The fourth problematic category of incitement statutes are those based on the
Model Penal Code definition of riot, which penalizes disorderly conduct with the
intent to commit a felony or intent to prevent or coerce official action.
Criminalizing incitement to this kind of riot is troubling because of
Brandenburg's requirement of the inciter's intent. This creates a nesting, not
of speech acts, but of intent: the inciter must intend that the listeners
perform disorderly conduct with their own intent to do a proscribed thing. Thus,
prosecuting a statute of this kind would involve showing the inciter's intent to
cause intent.


   Pennsylvania is the only clear example of this category. Pennsylvania bases
its definition of riot on the Model Penal Code, criminalizing disorderly conduct
with intent to commit or facilitate a misdemeanor or felony, or with intent to
prevent or coerce official action. Pennsylvania has common law incitement to
riot, defined as course or conduct by use of words, signs, or language or any
other means by which one can be urged on to action as would naturally lead or
urge other men to engage in or enter upon conduct which if completed would make
a riot. n192


   This definition presents a paradox under Brandenburg: Pennsylvania
criminalizes urging another person to perform disorderly conduct with intent to
commit or facilitate a misdemeanor, and Brandenburg requires that such urging be
intentional.  Thus, to be liable for incitement to riot in Pennsylvania, an
inciter would have to intend to cause intent, but not the felony or misdemeanor
itself. This is like inciting an inchoate crime. n193


   V. The First Amendment: Incitement and the Treatment of Crowds


   Incitement to riot touches on two First Amendment protections: freedom of
speech and freedom of assembly. This Part explains how First Amendment theory
justifies protecting speech that calls somebody  [*34]  to action, and how it
justifies protecting assembly. It outlines the history of First Amendment
jurisprudence on incitement and explains the current doctrinal standard for
incitement in Brandenburg v. Ohio. n194 It then turns to peaceable freedom of
assembly-not the familiar time, place, and manner test, but cases that concern
the conduct of those assembled. Because riot does not involve the traditional
question of time, place, and manner restriction, it presents an opportunity for
an alternate discussion of what freedom of assembly really means.


   A. First Amendment Theory and Incitement


   The Supreme Court established a First Amendment standard governing incitement
that should constrain all incitement-to-riot statutes. n195 This Subpart
examines the theory behind granting First Amendment protection to speech that
incites action. A number of theories can be used to justify such First Amendment
protection.  Which theory a court applies can affect the scope of protection
afforded that speech. n196


   Under the "marketplace of ideas" theory, speech is protected so that an
individual can gather information and weigh competing ideas on the path to
determining the truth. n197 A second theory has been described as a theory of
democratic self-governance, which protects the process of governance and the
establishment of democratic legitimacy. n198 A third rationale, the "safety
valve" theory, argues that speech should be protected because that protection
allows catharsis for those who are dissatisfied. n199 A fourth rationale focuses
on individual liberty. n200 Advocacy of unlawful action can be protected under
any of these theories, but the scope of its protection might change. n201


   Brandenburg was a short per curiam decision, and it is thus difficult  [*35]
to determine which First Amendment theory the Court applied. In the absence of
clear direction from the Court, it is worth examining whether different theories
might protect a call to action in different ways.


   The marketplace of ideas theory can be understood as more strongly protecting
those ideas that are valuable as part of a pursuit of truth, or as Robert Post
describes them, ideas with a "truth-seeking function." n202 Under this theory,
speech that calls for action would be more strongly protected if it has a
truth-seeking function. However, such speech often does not service sucha
function.  Thus, the marketplace of ideas does not strongly protect speech that
calls to action, unless that action itself in some way involves debate or the
propagation of a point of view.


   The Meiklejohnian theory of democratic self-governance protects the
communicative processes that are necessary for citizens to make informed and
intelligent voting decisions. n203 This theory appears more protective of speech
that calls people to action, since such calls are an important part of the
process of democratic governance. However, this interpretation would protect
only that speech that calls for action related to self-governance. Furthermore,
Meiklejohn's version of self-governance interprets the First Amendment as
shielding the public from the "mutilation of the thinking process of the
community," n204 and requires the state to distinguish between abusive and non-
abusive, and high and low value speech. n205 If the call to action contains low
value speech, or fails to contain high value speech, the state could justifiably
intervene as neutral moderator to protect political process from abuse.


   An alternate version of democratic self-governance provides stronger and
broader protection for a call to action. American courts, in practice, often use
what Post calls the "participatory" theory of democratic self-governance, which
focuses on the legitimization of democracy by protecting individual autonomy
against regulations of public discourse. n206 This theory protects individual
engagement in public discussion unless the government can show significant harm.
Under this version of democratic self-governance, as long as the call to action
in some way involves public discussion, it should receive protection, absent a
showing of significant harm.


   The safety valve theory provides perhaps the most protection for advocacy of
action. As long as the action is not harmful, it should be protected as a way of
allowing people to freely express themselves so  [*36]  that they do not become
frustrated with oppressive governance and revolt.


   A final, libertarian rationale argues that it does not matter whether theory
provides a rationale for protecting speech. The focus should be on not
restricting the rights of individuals, arguing that "assuming no . . . danger,
it is simply not appropriate for society to censor free and open discourse."
n207


   Thus, under a marketplace of ideas theory and Meicklejohnian self-governance
theory, one would have to look at the value of the speech. But under Post's
participatory theory, the safety valve theory, and a libertarian rationale, what
matters is not the value of the speech, but whether there is a significant harm
that is worth preventing. The latter three theories justify affording protection
to most speech that incites action, absent a showing that a real and significant
harm will occur. The details of this protection-how serious the harm must be,
how likely the speech is to actually cause that harm-are what the Supreme Court
struggled with for decades, before alighting on the Brandenburg standard.


   B. First Amendment Theory and Assembly


   Freedom of assembly has an even more complicated relationship with First
Amendment theory than incitement. n208 C. Edwin Baker points out that First
Amendment analysis is often based on a speech-conduct dichotomy that
"immediately relegates assemblies, which are obviously conduct, to a lesser
constitutional status than speech." n209 However, assembly itself is in fact
directly protected by the First Amendment. In part because of the speech-
conduct dichotomy, this protection of assembly is hard to square with
traditional First Amendment theories.


   Under the marketplace of ideas theory, some assemblies are important for
expressing ideas, but most are not. This is because assemblies occur for many
reasons, few of them directly having to do with conversation or the propagation
of specific ideas. Thus, it is hard to link most assemblies with the pursuit of
truth.  Therefore, most assemblies would not be protected under a traditional
version of the marketplace of ideas. Generally, the focus of the marketplace of
ideas rationale is on preventing censorship, so restrictions on assemblies that
do not focus on content often appear constitutionally adequate. This is why
time, place, and manner restrictions that are content-neutral are generally
accepted  [*37]  by courts. n210


   Meiklejohnians would almost certainly not see a value in strong protection
for assemblies. The important concern for Meiklejohn "is not that everyone shall
get to speak, but that everything worth saying shall be said." n211 Thus, under
this theory, assemblies can be restricted as long as alternate channels of
communication are available.


   Under Post's version of democratic self-governance, however, assemblies
should achieve higher First Amendment protection. Assemblies go to the heart of
democratic legitimacy because they create a forum through which government can
be directly responsive to public discourse. Restricting assemblies would
restrict public discourse, and delegitimize government by preventing those with
the least traditional access to governance from communicating. The Supreme Court
has used this rationale to protect freedom of assembly. n212 The Supreme Court
has also used the safety-valve rationale on multiple occasions to justify
protection of freedom of assembly. The Court has pointed out that if peaceful
meetings cannot occur, revolution may result. n213


   There is another way of understanding the First Amendment that provides
protection to assemblies. Jack Balkin theorizes that the First Amendment enables
and protects cultural democracy; individuals should be able to participate in
the culture that in turn defines them. n214 Assembly is one mode of
participation in public culture.


   Before the internet, when the primary means of addressing the public was top-
down media such as newspapers or television, public assembly was one of the few
ways individuals could participate in the crafting of public culture. The
internet is in some ways the virtual version of physical assembly. The Supreme
Court in fact recognized this "street corner" aspect of online culture in Reno
v. ACLU. n215 Thus both in-person and online assembly are particularly important
if the goal of the  [*38]  First Amendment is cultural democracy. This is the
case regardless of whether the assembly concerns high value or low value speech.


   Assemblies are also strongly protected under a theory of individual liberty.
"Any individual who is restricted-legally prevented from assembling-has her
liberty abridged." n216 The collection of individuals in an assembly is
protected by each individual's right to assemble. n217


   Baker theorizes six principles concerning assembly that stem from the theory
of individual liberty. Two of his principles are more pertinent to discussion of
assembly as it relates to regulation of riot. Baker explains that the government
abridges freedom of assembly when it imposes restrictions that turn on the fact
that the thing being regulated is an assembly. Often, riot statutes are
justified by the number of persons involved rather than secondary conduct that
produces actual harm.  This suggests that, under Baker's understanding of
freedom of assembly, riot statutes that are justified based on numbers rather
than actions are unconstitutional.


   Baker also discusses the nature of acceptably regulable activity in the
context of freedom of assembly. He explains that the government cannot outlaw
the strategic disruption of everyday life just because it is a disruption. n218
As part of the freedom of assembly, "people should have the right to use the
peaceful presence of their bodies to interfere non-violently with others'
everyday activities." n219 That interference is part of the power of freedom of
assembly. n220 Thus, even if the assembly "forcibly interfere[s] with others'
activities," it should be protected as long as it is nonviolent. n221 Baker
draws the line at any physical attack on, destruction of, or injury to people or
property. n222


   Conduct that occurs while individuals are assembled should be subject to at
least the same rules as individual conduct. Thus, if a disorderly conduct or
breach of the peace statute is unconstitutional as applied to individuals, it
must also be unconstitutional as applied to an assembly. Baker is correct that
basing one's regulation of crowds on the theory that multiple numbers causes bad
things to happen goes against the idea of having a First Amendment right of
assembly. This is the  [*39]  case even if one does not get into a discussion of
the expressive value of assembly itself.


   This perspective would require courts addressing riot statutes to reject the
inclusion in those statutes of lawful conduct done in an unlawful way. It would
also require courts to reject the regulation of spoken threats in riot statutes
where they are not true threats. n223 It is not clear how many riot statutes
refer to threats as speech versus threats as conduct.


   If one cannot be arrested for waving one's arms on a street, one should not
be subject to arrest for waving one's arms in the company of others. Baker
provides a similar example: if one cannot be arrested for walking down the
street, one should not be able to be arrested for walking in tandem with three
other people. n224 If, however, one can be arrested for hitting somebody, one
can be arrested for hitting somebody with three other people.


   The difficulty arises when what is involved is less tangible. If one can be
arrested for assault-for intentionally placing somebody in immediate
apprehension of harmful bodily contact-one can be arrested for doing the same
with three people. But if the individual crime requires a showing of intent to
cause apprehension, or an intent to do the act that causes apprehension, then
the crime involving the group must require the same intent for each individual,
and not disperse the intent across a group. The group crime also cannot change
the target of the threat to the general public rather than an individual. n225
Allowing the public peace to be the target of the threat prevents the disruption
that is an inherent part of the power of freedom of assembly. When disruption is
balanced against the right of assembly, the right of assembly should prevail.


   C. First Amendment Theory and Incitement to Riot


   Incitement to riot involves both incitement and assembly. When speech is a
call to assemble, regulators should be mindful of justifications for protecting
both the call itself and the assembly, through protection of the call. Across
First Amendment theories, considerations of both individual autonomy and
protection for larger political process  [*40]  argue that calls to gather
should be particularly protected under the First Amendment. Protecting a call to
gather legitimizes the political process by providing a forum for public
discussion outside of existing political strictures. It preserves individual
autonomy against overzealous state regulation. And it often directly (through
advocacy) or indirectly (through the chosen venue of the protest or the size of
the crowd) brings points of view into public discourse that otherwise would
remain unexamined. Like the internet-and often now with the aid of the
internet-assembly enables participation in the formation of public culture by
people who are not in possession of broadcast media.


   D. First Amendment Incitement Doctrine


   The previous Subpart addressed First Amendment theories for protecting
incitement, assembly, and incitement to riot. This Subpart addresses how courts
have applied such theories, outlining existing First Amendment jurisprudence on
incitement.


   Speech entwined with action presents one of the most challenging and
well-known First Amendment problems. The Supreme Court famously addressed
incitement to unlawful action in Brandenburg v. Ohio, but the tortuous history
of First Amendment jurisprudence on incitement up to that point indicates the
difficulty of the problem.


   1. Incitement Before Brandenburg


   Before Brandenburg, the Supreme Court struggled with whether and how to
protect speech that calls to action. The basis of this struggle concerned just
how likely and imminent the result of the speech must be for the speech to be
regulable.


   The earliest incitement cases arose against widespread fear of the rise of
Bolshevism in Russia. In 1919, the Supreme Court addressed advocacy of illegal
action in three cases: Schenck v. United States, n226 Frohwerk v. United States,
n227 and Debs v. United States. n228 In Schenck, the Court famously reasoned
that the First Amendment "would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a
theater and causing a panic," and articulated the "clear and present danger"
test, which allowed the government to prohibit speech that created a clear and
present danger of a substantive evil Congress had a right to prevent. n229


   In Frohwerk and Debs, the Court developed the "bad tendency" test,  [*41]
which ignored the imminence of the bad action and looked instead to the speech's
"natural tendency and reasonably probable effects." n230 The Court applied this
bad tendency test to uphold convictions in Abrams v. United States n231 and
Gitlow v. New York. n232 In 1927, the Court in Whitney v. California used the
bad tendency test to affirm the conviction of a member of the Communist Labor
Party after that member signed a resolution. n233


   As early as 1919, Justice Holmes observed significant problems with the bad
tendency test and urged re-adoption of the clear and present danger test. n234
Justice Brandeis's concurrence in 1927 in Whitney also urged a return to
assessing the immediacy of the danger incurred by the speech at issue. n235


   In the 1930s and 1940s, it appeared that the Court might shift to the clear
and present danger test. n236 But in 1951, in Dennis v. United States, the Court
retreated, n237 proposing a balancing test of "whether the gravity of the
'evil,' discounted by its improbability, justifies such invasion of free speech
as is necessary to avoid the danger." n238 This test did not mention imminence
of the action; the more 'evil' the speech was, the less the court needed to
consider the probability of its actual occurrence. Justice Douglas dissented,
reiterating the importance of imminence. n239


   In Yates v. United States, n240 the Court clarified that Dennis had not
"obliterated the traditional dividing line between advocacy of abstract doctrine
and advocacy of action." n241 However, the Court did not discuss whether
imminence was required. n242


   Several cases in the 1960s prefigured what is now the established doctrine on
incitement. n243 Then, in 1969, the Court held in Brandenburg v. Ohio that
government may not restrict advocacy of illegal action unless it "is directed to
inciting or producing imminent lawless action  [*42]  and is likely to incite or
produce such action." n244


   2. Brandenburg v. Ohio


   Brandenburg addressed the conviction of a Ku Klux Klan leader under the Ohio
Criminal Syndicalism statute. Brandenburg addressed Ohio's Criminal Syndicalism
Act, n245 which banned advocating "crime, violence, or unlawful methods of
terrorism as a means of accomplishing political reform" and banned gathering
with the purpose of teaching criminal syndicalism. n246


   The accused spoke at a rural Ku Klux Klan rally that was covered by a
Cincinnati television station. He stated to those assembled that "if our
President, our Congress, our Supreme Court, continues to suppress the white,
Caucasian race, it's possible that there might have to be some revengeance
taken." n247 He also announced a march on Congress.


   The Court held that the First Amendment protected this speech, explaining
that the statute "purports to punish mere advocacy and to forbid, on pain of
criminal punishment, assembly with others merely to advocate the described type
of action." n248 The Court famously held that speech that advocates action
cannot be regulated unless it "is directed to inciting or producing imminent
lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action." n249


   Despite its conciseness, the Brandenburg test contains multiple elements. It
requires intent on the part of the speaker: the speech must be "directed to
inciting" action. n250 It requires that a listener be present who is able to
clearly understand and follow through on the speaker's intent. n251 It dictates
that the state can regulate such speech only when the possible action is both
likely and imminent. Thus, even if the speaker intends to incite action, and the
listener understands that speech as incitement, the state cannot regulate the
call to action unless the action is both imminent and likely to occur.


   Any statute regulating incitement to riot as incitement would have to address
the speaker's intent, how likely it is that an audience would understand that
intent, the imminence of the action, and the likelihood of  [*43]  the
occurrence of illegal activity.


   It appears at first glance that the Supreme Court's analysis of incitement
ends with Brandenburg and one case affirming it. n252 In Hess v. Indiana, the
appellant was convicted of disorderly conduct for shouting "[w]e'll take the
fucking street later" or "[w]e'll take the fucking street again" at an antiwar
demonstration. n253 The Court held that since Hess's statement was not directed
to any person, it could not be incitement and was protected under the First
Amendment. n254 The Court emphasized the importance of the speaker's intent, and
the imminence and likelihood of illegal action. n255


   3. Questions after Brandenburg


   Despite its clear language, Brandenburg leaves a number of doctrinal gaps.
There are at least four areas of tension in First Amendment jurisprudence that
Brandenburg failed to clearly address. n256 Three of these questions have direct
relevance for any analysis of incitement-to-riot statutes: how courts should
treat indirect advocacy of unlawful action, what Brandenburg means by imminence,
and what kind of substantive harm Brandenburg seeks to prevent.


   The Supreme Court has never addressed whether there should be a distinction
between direct and indirect advocacy of unlawful action. n257 In Masses
Publishing Co. v. Patten, Judge Learned Hand insisted that only direct advocacy,
where the speaker clearly urges the listener to do an unlawful act, should be
punished. n258 This view of advocacy would protect statements that might lead
another to commit a crime but do not directly advocate it. For example, a person
shouting "the man in that jail tortured and killed my mother" in front of a mob
outside a jail would be protected by the First Amendment under this view. n259
The implication for incitement to riot is that if only direct advocacy may be
banned, and the speaker calls for assembly but does not call for anything else
to happen, then that speech would be protected regardless of whether riot
ensues.


   Brandenburg does not clearly address whether the First Amendment grants
heightened protection to indirect advocacy. Brandenburg states  [*44]  that
unlawful incitement must be "directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless
action," but it is not clear if "directed to" means that the speech must
explicitly mention the specific unlawful act. n260 It is unlikely that
Brandenburg allows for regulation of only direct advocacy, however. Brandenburg
appears to focus, like previous Supreme Court cases, on the resulting harm.
Significant harm can emerge from intentional but indirect advocacy when it is
directed to an audience that is likely to understand it as advocacy. n261


   The second relevant doctrinal ambiguity that Brandenburg fails to resolve is
what imminence means. Does imminence mean that the act must occur within
seconds?  Minutes? Hours?


   Brandenburg's imminence requirement may in fact be extremely temporally
strict. n262 When a person speaks to a crowd and moves that crowd to violence
that police are unable to control, that person may be arrested for incitement to
riot under Feiner v. New York. n263 Feiner and subsequent cases suggest that the
crowd must be excited, and the police must find the crowd uncontrollable, before
the speaker can be arrested; therefore, merely speaking to the crowd is not
enough to show imminence. Feiner is still good law, and other courts that have
referred to Feiner focus on the fact that members of the audience had begun
voicing physical threats. n264


   The most significant ambiguity in Brandenburg is whether the case allows
government regulation of incitement to all "lawless action," or only to
significantly harmful or violent lawless action. The problem emerges because
Brandenburg balances free speech against protection from harm. It cannot be the
case that all unlawful acts produce the same amount of harm with respect to that
balance. Many relatively harmless acts can be illegal, such as jaywalking, or
parading without a permit.


   In earlier versions of the clear and present danger test, it did not matter
what the evil was, as long as Congress had the power to prevent it. n265 But in
Bridges v. California, the Court applied the clear and present danger test and
stated that "the substantive evil must be extremely serious . . . before
utterances can be punished." n266 In his concurrence in Whitney, Justice
Brandeis wrote that "even imminent danger cannot justify resort to prohibition
of those functions essential to  [*45]  effective democracy, unless the evil
apprehended is relatively serious." n267 The Court's test in Dennis similarly
examined the seriousness of the threatened harm. n268


   It is unclear whether Brandenburg incorporates these previous observations
that the incited action must be serious, in addition to unlawful. However, in
deference to the strength of First Amendment protection, the burden should be on
those who want to establish that Brandenburg does not import the previously
existing seriousness requirement. The Brandenburg test itself refers to advocacy
of the potentially broad category of "lawless action." n269 And the indictment
in Brandenburg under the Ohio Criminal Syndicalism statute was for advocating
"crime" in addition to violence. n270


   Even within Brandenburg, the Court suggests that the harm anticipated is more
than just lawless action and includes an understanding that the action must be
harmful or serious in addition to being unlawful. In a footnote to the
Brandenburg incitement test, the Court referred to its decision in Yates v.
United States n271 concerning the advocacy of the forcible overthrow of the
government and tendency to produce "forcible" action rather than merely
"lawless" action. n272 And in the paragraph following the incitement test, the
Court quoted Noto v. United States for the proposition that the advocacy of
"force and violence, is not the same as preparing a group for violent action and
steeling it to such action." n273 These two references place the Brandenburg
incitement test in the context of advocacy of force or violence, not advocacy of
any small unlawful action Congress has chosen-and is permitted-to ban.


   Courts should thus interpret Brandenburg as containing the implicit
requirement that "lawless action" be limited to serious lawless action. As
Redish observes, "Society's interest in suppressing speech is simply not as
strong where the speech advocates only minor transgressions." n274 Society
should be more willing to risk speech suppression when the substantive evil
being prevented involves force or violence, rather than illegally walking on the
grass. n275 Thus, for example, Brandenburg should not allow states to
criminalize incitement to a permitless protest,  [*46]  unless the permit
requirements prevent a serious harm. The harm caused by a permitless protest,
except in rare exceptions, would likely be too de minimis for the state to be
able to reach the speaker calling for the action, even if that action is
imminent and likely to occur.


   E. First Amendment Doctrine on Assembly, and the Hostile Crowd Doctrine


   Incitement to riot is additionally restricted by the First Amendment's
protection of freedom of assembly: the right of the people to peaceably
assemble.  What that freedom means, however, is surprisingly underexplored.


   The Supreme Court has most often addressed freedom of assembly with respect
to time, place, and manner regulations. However, riot statutes deal with
disruption of public order; not time, place, and manner regulations. They are
unusual in this regard, because they combine elements of disorderly conduct
statutes with targeting assembly. n276


   The difficulty with riot statutes arises because of a difficulty inherent in
the right of assembly: assemblies are never merely communicative, but occupy a
physical space. Baker explains that communication is only one aspect of
assembly: "People assemble and associate in order to generate and exercise
power, to do things, to engage in activities that are valued in themselves, to
engage in activities that often give the people involved an exhilarating sense
of power and self-actualization, and to engage in the extraordinary as a way to
challenge and change the ordinary and the routine." n277


   Baker thus suggests, and I agree, that restrictions on the right of assembly
must be narrow, in appreciation for all of the conduct that assembly rightfully
contains. Restriction on assembly can and should be limited as much as possible
to preventing actual or attempted force and violence. n278


   Whether the Supreme Court agrees with this is a difficult question to answer.
It turns on how one understands "peaceable" assembly: as all conduct that is
nonviolent, or conduct that is orderly, calm, and nondisruptive. These are two
very different understandings of the term "peaceable." Which one courts choose
will have extraordinary implications for freedom of assembly.


   The closest the Supreme Court has come to analysis in this area is its
creation of the hostile crowd doctrine, which suggests that peaceable means
nonviolent, not nondisruptive. The hostile crowd doctrine  [*47]  suggests that
when a speaker causes a crowd to react, regulation cannot occur until that crowd
is in fact stirred to actual violence. The Court in fact explicitly connected
hostile crowd doctrine to freedom of assembly in the 1992 case of Forsyth County
v. Nationalist Movement. n279


   1. Freedom of Assembly


   Freedom of assembly has a fairly long doctrinal history. As early as 1937,
the Court in De Jonge explained that states could not punish "mere participation
in a peaceable assembly and lawful public discussion." n280 However, in Cantwell
v. Connecticut, an early fighting words case, the Court noted that the state may
regulate the time and manner of solicitation "in the interest of public safety,
peace, comfort or convenience." n281 The Court stated that the state is
permitted to regulate when clear and present danger of riot, disorder, or
interference with traffic upon the public streets appears. n282


   The Court's usual discussion of freedom of assembly has been about time,
place, and manner, and alternate channels of communication. n283 I do not intend
to review that analysis here. Because the focus of this paper is on the
regulation of riot, this Subpart examines the scope of First Amendment
protection for activity once an assembly has convened.


   In 1949, in Cole v. Arkansas, the Court addressed an Arkansas unlawful
assembly statute and suggested, but explicitly did not decide, that the First
Amendment freedom of assembly might protect assembling peaceably even when
somebody else in the group commits violence. n284 The Court explicitly found
that it was constitutional for a state to convict a person of "promoting,
encouraging and aiding an assemblage the purpose of which is to wreak violence."
n285


   In Feiner, the Court considered the boundary at which police might interfere
with a crowd's behavior. The Court upheld Feiner's conviction of disorderly
conduct for breach of the peace where the crowd he  [*48]  addressed had grown
"restless and there was some pushing, shoving and milling around." n286 Even
though the Court continuously references incitement to riot, Feiner was in fact
convicted of disorderly conduct, a different offense.  Feiner spoke from a
loudspeaker on top of a car and urged his crowd to "rise up in arms and fight
for equal rights." n287 At least one person in the crowd threatened violence,
and Feiner twice refused to stop speaking when an officer requested that he
stop.


   The Court was explicit that Feiner was arrested not because of the officers'
views of his speech, but because his speech "actually engendered" a dangerous
reaction by the crowd. n288 The Court cited Cantwell for the proposition that
"[w]hen clear and present danger of riot, disorder, interference with traffic
upon the public streets, or other immediate threat to public safety, peace, or
order, appears, the power of the State to prevent or punish is obvious." n289


   The Court noted in Feiner that speech to a crowd is protected only up to a
point. When "the speaker passes the bounds of argument or persuasion and
undertakes incitement to riot," police may intercede "to prevent a breach of
thepeace." n290 Judge Frankfurter wrote a concurring opinion that the police had
"interfered only when they apprehended imminence of violence." n291 But the
majority opinion in Feiner appears to grant the state broad latitude for
regulating crowd behavior when it threatens the public safety, peace, or order.


   Fourteen years later, however, in Edwards v. South Carolina, the Court moved
away from this deferential position and protected orderly protests when the
state's interest was not as high. The Court overturned a conviction for common
law breach of the peace, where civil rights protesters walked single file or two
abreast "in an orderly way," caused no obstruction of traffic, and threatened no
violence. n292 Explaining that a state cannot "make criminal the peaceful
expression of unpopular views," n293 the Court examined South Carolina's
definition of "breach of the peace" and found it to be unconstitutionally broad.
The march had not produced "violence or threat of violence on their part, or on
the part of any member of the crowd watching them." n294


   Two years later, in Cox v. Louisiana, the Court addressed another  [*49]
protest case. n295 Cox had led some 2000 students protesting against
discrimination and segregation to assemble peaceably at the state capitol
building.  He was convicted of three offenses under state law: disturbing the
peace, obstructing public passages, and picketing before a courthouse. Cox had
told officers "that they would march by the courthouse, say prayers, sing hymns,
and conduct a peaceful program of protest;" n296 an officer twice asked him to
disband, and he refused. The protest was held 101 feet from the courthouse and
did not obstruct the street. The Sheriff tolerated the protest until Cox
appealed to students to sit in at segregated lunch counters. This call prompted
"muttering" and "grumbling" by white onlookers. n297


   The Court found that there had been no indication the students had ever been
hostile, aggressive, unfriendly, or "disorderly;" n298 and that while the
atmosphere of the white audience had become "tense," there was no indication
that any member of the white group threatened violence. n299 This made the
situation a "far cry from the situation in Feiner." n300 The Court thus found
Louisiana's disturbing the peace statute unconstitutionally broad and impinging
on Cox's rights of free speech and free assembly. Citing Terminiello, the Court
concluded that speech must be protected even "when it induces a condition of
unrest, creates dissatisfaction with conditions as they are, or even stirs
people to anger." n301


   The next case to address assembly was Brandenburg itself. In Brandenburg, the
statute banned gathering with purposes of teaching criminal syndicalism. The
Court found it was unconstitutional "to forbid, on pain of criminal punishment,
assembly with others merely to advocate the described type of action." n302


   After Brandenburg was decided in 1969, the Court continued to address issues
of crowd regulation. Two years later, in Coates v. City of Cincinnati, the Court
found a Cincinnati ordinance unconstitutionally violative of freedom of assembly
and association when it criminalized the assembly of three or more persons on a
sidewalk conducting themselves "in a manner annoying to persons passing by."
n303 The Court explained that the ordinance was unconstitutionally vague and
[*50]  overbroad because "[c]onduct that annoys some people does not annoy
others." n304 While the city could prevent people from blocking sidewalks,
obstructing traffic, littering, committing assaults, or other behavior, it must
do so through specific ordinances. The Court concluded that past decisions
"establish that mere public intolerance or animosity cannot be the basis for
abridgment of these constitutional freedoms." n305


   The classic case cited for protection of freedom of assembly, NAACP v.
Claiborne, is actually rather conservative in its holding when compared to some
of the earlier cases. n306 Cole had already suggested in 1949 that peaceable
assembly might be protected where somebody else in a group, but not the accused,
committed violence. The Court in NAACP held that a speaker, Charles Evers, could
not be held liable for damages created by other people in a Mississippi boycott
of several hundred people that lasted for several years. The Court carefully
emphasized the political nature of the assembly, observing that "expression on
public issues has always rested on the highest rung of the hierarchy of First
Amendment values." n307 It acknowledged repeatedly that while political assembly
is protected, violence is not. n308 Then, it noted the attenuation between
Evers's speech and any acts of violence, which occurred "weeks or months" after
his speech. n309


   None of these conclusions add to the existing doctrine on when crowd action
moves outside of being "peacable" and may be regulated. Where NAACP does add
doctrine is its evidentiary requirements that when an individual is accused on
the basis of actions by other people in the same group, "it is necessary to
establish that the group itself possessed unlawful goals and that the individual
held a specific intent to further those illegal aims." n310


   More recent cases address the scope of acceptable restrictions on gatherings.
In 1988, in Boos v. Barry, the Court found unconstitutional a District of
Columbia statute banning display of signs bringing foreign government into
disrepute within 500 feet of an embassy. n311 Buried within this case, which
found direct regulation of the signs unconstitutional, the Court found the
"congregation clause" of the  [*51]  statute constitutional. n312 This finding
altered what until then looked like a clear rule that breach of the peace
statutes were generally unconstitutional.


   The "congregation clause" in Boos allowed police to arrest individuals for
failure to disperse a congregation of three or more people standing within 500
feet of an embassy. The Court held that the original statute was problematic
because it "applies to any congregation within 500 feet of an embassy for any
reason and because it appears to place no limits at all on the dispersal
authority of the police." n313 However, the Court of Appeals had narrowed the
congregation clause to apply "only when the police reasonably believe that a
threat to the security or peace of the embassy is present." n314 This narrowing
of the statute to "groups posing a security threat" and the fact that the
congregation clause was "site specific" to within 500 feet of an embassy made it
constitutional and not vague, unlike the earlier breach of the peace statutes
rejected in other cases. n315


   After Boos, then, it is clear that not all breach of the peace statutes are
unconstitutional. It remains unclear, however, where the dividing line is
between sufficiently tailored breach of the peace statutes and unconstitutional
infringements on the freedom of assembly.


   2. Hostile Crowd Doctrine


   The line between peaceful assembly and violent behavior is not clearly drawn
in freedom of assembly cases. However, another line of related doctrine provides
additional guidance. Although the Supreme Court has not addressed incitement to
riot, its doctrine on the regulation of crowds that grow hostile towards a
speaker is instructive. The "hostile crowd doctrine" addresses when police might
step in to prevent a crowd that is hostile to a speaker from boiling over into
violence. The Supreme Court has declared that it is unconstitutional to stop a
speaker because the audience is becoming hostile, unless the crowd actually
becomes violent or disorderly. The same boundary might be applied to incitement
to riot.


   In 1949, in Terminiello v. City of Chicago, the Court emphatically declared
that it was unconstitutional to convict a speaker of breach of the peace for
speech that "stirs the public to anger, invites dispute, brings about a
condition of unrest, or creates a disturbance . . . ." n316  [*52]  Terminiello,
which protected an anti-Semitic speaker to the Christian Veterans of America,
laid the groundwork for a number of later cases holding that governments may not
try to predict an audience's reaction when choosing to regulate speech, or let a
hostile audience determine when a speaker should be shut down. Instead, states
must wait until disorder or violence in fact arises.


   As discussed, only two years later in Feiner, the Court upheld a conviction
of disorderly conduct for breach of the peace where the crowd had grown
"restless and there was some pushing, shoving and milling around." n317 However,
in Edwards v. South Carolina, the Court found that where a civil rights march
had not produced "violence or threat of violence on their part, or on the part
of any member of the crowd watching them," the speech was protected by the First
Amendment and was thus distinguishable from the situation in Feiner. n318 This
later reading of Feiner appears to restrict its holding to violent and
imminently violent behavior.


   The most recent relevant Supreme Court case on crowd behavior is Forsyth
County v. Nationalist Movement in 1992. n319 Forsyth combined an assembly case-
concerning a parade permit-with hostile crowd doctrine. In Forsyth, the Court
considered a facial challenge to an ordinance allowing a permit administrator to
adjust the fee of a parade permit. The Court found the statute to be overbroad
because it impermissibly delegated authority to the administrator. The Court
found that the statute was not content-neutral because the administrator could
adjust the permit fee based on his guess that the crowd might react more heavily
to a given protest. n320 The relevance to incitement to riot is that Forsyth
affirmed that "[s]peech cannot be . . . burdened . . . simply because it might
offend a hostile mob." n321 This reiterates the earlier holdings in Terminiello,
Edwards, and Cox.


   As Part IV of this article discussed, state riot statutes prohibit a variety
of crowd behavior, some of which is attenuated from any actual violence to
persons or harm to property. The riot statutes themselves might not be
constitutional. But more significantly, when the Supreme Court has examined the
relationship between a person addressing a crowd and bad behavior by that crowd,
it has emphasized that the crowd must do more than merely exhibit anger or
hostility for that speech to be  [*53]  constitutionally regulable.


   The next subpart extrapolates from the above cases to create a framework for
evaluating the constitutionality of incitement-to-riot statutes that ban
incitement to action that does not rise to actual violence.


   3. Summary of Doctrine on Freedom of Assembly and Hostile Crowds


   The Court's case law recognizes that sometimes a large gathering of people is
constitutionally protected, while at other times a crowd's behavior takes it
outside the scope of that protection. From these cases, the following rules
emerge.


   It is clearly unacceptable for a statute to regulate purely peaceful assembly
for political purposes. n322 More generally, it is unacceptable to regulate the
"peaceful expression of unpopular views," whether or not those views are
political in nature. n323


   On the other hand, it is clearly acceptable for a statute to regulate
violence or incitement to violence. n324 Regulation of force that causes damage
is probably analogously permissible. n325


   When speech produces reactions falling between violence and peace, regulation
is more complicated. On the one hand, it is unconstitutional for a state to
regulate speech because it (1) offends dignity, n326 (2) is outrageous, n327 (3)
"stirred people to anger, invited public dispute, or brought about a condition
of unrest," n328 or (4) annoys. n329 These standards for regulating speech are
unconstitutional because they are inherently subjective, and it is important to
have "adequate breathing space" for freedoms protected by the First Amendment.
n330


   But these categories of regulations are also unconstitutional because there
is a sense that the underlying reaction to the speech is just not harmful
enough. In other words, "mere public intolerance or animosity cannot be the
basis for abridgment of these constitutional freedoms." n331

     [*54]

   Here, the Supreme Court presents more muddled doctrine. A threat to public
order may be acceptably regulated if it is crafted for a particular site or
context that makes clear what activities are being disrupted. n332 But at the
same time, the Court has recognized a number of times that that common-law
breach of the peace is too broad. n333 In Cox, the Court appeared to contrast
violence with well-controlled and orderly crowd behavior, suggesting that only
violence or a threat of violence may be regulated, and that orderly and well-
controlled crowds should be protected. n334 There is presumably a category of
disorderly conduct that slips between these two poles, and it is not clear
whether freedom of assembly protects the behavior that is not violent but also
is not orderly.


   This struggle to define the scope of regulable activity that results as a
reaction to speech is highly pertinent to analysis of incitement-to-riot
statutes.  Many state statutes penalize "violence" that does not cause actual
injury, suggesting that they penalize crowd disorder rather than violence in a
physical sense. Some statutes penalize a threat of force that causes a threat to
public peace. n335


   The appropriate way to resolve this question is to err on the side of
protecting speech. Because Brandenburg is founded on balancing free speech
against the State's interest in protecting other citizens, it should apply only
to incitement to lawless action that causes some kind of serious harm.
Incitement to, say, jaywalking should be protected by the First Amendment and
not be subject to a Brandenburg test for determining whether the lawless action
is imminent and likely to happen.


   More recent analysis of the 1951 incitement-to-riot case, Feiner, supports
the view that Brandenburg requires that the speech produce serious harm. Even
though Feiner contemplated an immediate threat of "riot, disorder, interference
with traffic upon the public streets, or other immediate threat to public
safety, peace, or order," courts have since interpreted it as applying primarily
to incitement of violence. n336


   The Second Circuit, for example, described Feiner as a public gathering that
"threatened to escalate into racial violence," where the  [*55]  speaker was
arrested not only because of the crowd's threatened violence but because he
defied police orders to cease and desist. n337 The Tenth Circuit explained that
in Feiner the speaker urged that his black audience "rise up in arms and fight."
n338 And a Kentucky district court recently explicitly linked incitement to riot
to incitement to violence, explaining that "the Court must also consider the
context of the speech to determine whether it was inherently likely to cause a
violent reaction, thus inciting a riot." n339


   Thus Feiner can be read through Brandenburg to allow the state to arrest a
speaker who incites imminent, likely, and serious violent action. But it would
not mean that the state can arrest a speaker who incites imminent, likely and
merely lawless action where that lawless action is something de minimis such as
jaywalking.


   Even if one is not convinced by this argument and finds Brandenburg to apply
to all lawless action, it cannot be the case that incitement to a threat or risk
is constitutional. The Supreme Court has required on numerous occasions some
actual reaction from the crowd, not a risk of a reaction, for speech to a crowd
to be regulated. Brandenburg might alternatively mean that states can regulate
direct incitement to jaywalking where jaywalking is imminent and likely, but it
cannot mean that states can constitutionally regulate direct incitement to a
risk of jaywalking where a risk of jaywalking is imminent. The Supreme Court's
jurisprudence on balancing the First Amendment against a risk of harm requires
that police be able to immediately assess the harm on the ground, not predict
what harm might occur in the future. n340 Giving police the discretion to assess
future harm caused by speech increases the likelihood that speech will be banned
based on preexisting prejudices against its content.


   VI. Constitutionality of Riot and Incitement to Riot


   A number of incitement-to-riot statutes are unconstitutional. Some violate
freedom of assembly in their underlying definition of "riot," by defining riot
as a risk of public alarm through tumultuous and violent conduct. Others violate
the First Amendment's protection of speech that incites action, by failing to
include the Brandenburg requirements. Those requirements, however, might be read
into a statute by a court-and many courts, in fact, have at least read a clear
and present danger  [*56]  test into incitement-to-riot statutes. Third, a
number of state statutes create a scheme where the call to action is remote from
any actual harm. I have called this problem harm attenuation, and believe it
cannot be constitutional under Brandenburg, both because sometimes the harm is
too remote (not imminent) and because sometimes the anticipated harm is de
minimis (not actual violence or force).


   A. When Riot Violates Freedom of Assembly


   There are two types of underlying riot statutes that might directly violate
freedom of assembly. The first concerns the creation of a risk of public alarm,
and the second contains threats of violence rather than actual violence.


   1. Tumultuous Conduct and Public Alarm


   The first type of statute that may violate freedom of assembly is the type
that penalizes creating a risk of public alarm through tumultuous conduct. One
example of this type is Arkansas's riot statute, which penalizes riot if a
person, with two or more other persons, knowingly engages in "tumultuous or
violent conduct" that creates a "substantial risk" of "causing public alarm."
n341 Where courts have not narrowed "tumultuous or violent conduct" to apply
only to actual violence, this definition is probably unconstitutional.


   Regulating group conduct based on anticipated public animus is likely
unconstitutional for two reasons. First, it bases the evaluation of harm on
public reaction rather than objective harm. In Coates, the Supreme Court
concluded that "mere public intolerance or animosity cannot be the basis for
abridgment of these constitutional freedoms." n342 Similarly, in Terminiello,
the Court declared that it was unconstitutional to convict a speaker of breach
of the peace for speech that "stirs the public to anger, invites dispute, brings
about a condition of unrest, or creates a disturbance . . . ." n343 Thus, it is
probably unconstitutional to base a riot statute on banning the creation of
"public alarm." Conduct that disturbs or alarms the public is often an element
of assembly, and may even be an important part of the freedom to assemble.


   Second, because this type of statute is based on the risk of public alarm
rather than the actual creation of public alarm, it allows police the discretion
to determine whether the public will in fact be alarmed instead of proving that
a person has, in fact, been alarmed. Giving  [*57]  police the discretion to
predict how a crowd might react is not appropriate and is likely
unconstitutional. In Forsyth, the Supreme Court found that the administrator
could not be given the discretion to adjust a permit fee based on his guess that
the crowd might react more heavily to a given protest. n344


   Riot statutes that are founded on tumultuous conduct with no requirement that
the conduct actually harm somebody or something, and with the only harm
described being a risk of public alarm, are likely unconstitutionally violative
of the freedom of assembly.


   The 1985 American Law Report annotation on incitement to riot noted a pattern
in court interpretations of public alarm statutes: where force or violence has
not in fact occurred, courts have found terror to the populace to be a necessary
element of the crime of riot. n345 Unless public terror and public alarm are
construed to include an act of violence or physical harm, or to be physically
limited to a specific site, n346 this type of definition of riot is likely
unconstitutional.


   2. Threats of Violence


   A second type of riot statute that might present problems for freedom of
assembly is the kind that addresses threats of violence,rather than violence
itself.  This presents a more difficult problem than statutes that penalize
merely causing public alarm, because real violence is at least part of the
equation. An example of this kind of statute is Arizona's riot statute, which
penalizes a threat of force or violence that disturbs the public peace when that
threat is accompanied by immediate power of execution. n347 As mentioned, an
Arizona court found this definition neither vague nor overbroad. n348


   The question presented by this statute is whether "peaceable assembly" means
assembly that is not violent, or assembly that does not even threaten violence.
This conflict stems from defining riot as a group version of the crime of
assault.  Presumably, if one may arrest an individual for assault, one may
arrest a group for assault. Assault is usually defined as intentionally placing
a person in apprehension of  [*58]  immediate harmful or offensive contact. n349
Arizona's riot statute imports at least one element of assault by requiring the
threat of violence to be followed by an immediate power of execution.


   However, this restriction alone is inadequate. Arizona's riot statute does
not require a target for the threat of force or violence; it merely states that
the threat of force or violence must disturb the public peace. This shift of the
target of the threat from an individual who is in apprehension of imminent
harmful conduct, to the "public peace" which risks getting disturbed, makes the
statute possibly unconstitutional for the same reasons discussed above: states
cannot ban speech that causes mere public animosity (even where that animosity
is stirred up by a threat of violence), and states cannot ban speech based on a
prediction of the public reaction to it without examining the facts on the
ground. The definition of riot based on public annoyance, disturbance, or alarm
again must be unconstitutional under Coates. n350 Additionally, this type of
riot statute might not meet the First Amendment standard for "true threats,"
where the threat concerned involves speech rather than physical action. In
Virginia v. Black, the Supreme Court created a standard for "true threats,"
which occur where the speaker "directs a threat to a person or group of persons
with the intent of placing the victim in fear of bodily harm or death." The
speaker need not actually intend to cause the harm. This type of riot statute,
however, does not have a victim or group of victims, and does not include an
intent requirement or a threshold of harm.


   A related Supreme Court case on threats also suggests that this type of
statute violates freedom of assembly. In Boos, the Court allowed police to
arrest assemblies "only when the police reasonably believe that a threat to the
security or peace of the embassy is present." n351 But the Court's reasoning in
Boos suggests that two additional elements must be present for a threat-based
statute to not violate freedom of assembly. First, the statute was narrowed to
"groups posing a security threat to the embassy," which is a more precise
physical target than the amorphous "public peace." Second, the congregation
clause was "site specific" to within 500 feet of an embassy, which made it not
vague and thus constitutional. n352 Arizona's threat-based definition of riot is
not site-specific, and does not contain an individual target, just the public
peace.

     [*59]

   Notably, New Hampshire courts recognize that this type of statute was
problematic, and read into their similar statute a requirement that the crowd
intentionally embark on concerted criminal action. n353


   B. Brandenburg and Incitement to Riot: The Definition of Incitement


   Under Brandenburg, any incitement-to-riot statute would have to address the
speaker's intent, the likelihood that an audience would understand the speech,
the imminence of the action, and the likelihood that the illegal activity would
occur.


   Kentucky's incitement-to-riot statute fails to include any definition of the
term "incitement," and thus fails on its face to include the requirements under
the First Amendment. n354 There is no mention of imminence, likelihood, or
intent.


   A number of courts have recognized this problem, and interpreted "incitement"
to include a clear and present danger test. For those courts, however, the
addition may still be inadequate because it does not fully import Brandenburg.
n355 The clear and present danger test does not discuss the connection between
the speaker and the listener. If the speaker speaks hastily and a crazy listener
happens to act on that speech, the clear and present danger test might still
allow the speaker to be penalized. But the Brandenburg test requires that the
speaker's speech itself be understandable as incitement, and be likely to cause
the action.


   C. Brandenburg and Incitement to Riot: The Attenuation Problem


   The third constitutionality problem with incitement-to-riot statutes is
admittedly the most challenging to address. Where riot is defined not as force
and violence, but as a threat of tumultuous conduct, I believe that incitement
to riot is too removed from actual harm to be constitutional. Rather than
creating a likelihood of imminent harm, the speaker creates a likelihood of an
imminent threat of conduct that itself in turn creates a clear and present
danger of actual harm. This scheme represents a nesting of speech-act
prohibitions, each of which has to be closely examined for constitutionality. It
likely sweeps in a wide range of First Amendment- protected activity, without
the justification that state action is needed to protect some person or thing
from harm. One should therefore not be criminally punished for inciting somebody
to in turn merely create a risk or a threat (unless, arguably, that threat is a
"true  [*60]  threat" under Virginia v. Black). n356


   This attenuation problem creates unconstitutional statutory schemes for two
reasons: the harm is both de minimis and too remote. Where the harm is itself a
risk, it does not reach Brandenburg's implicit requirement of serious lawless
action- not just lawless action. Just as one should not be criminalized for
inciting somebody to jaywalk, even if the jaywalking is likely to occur, one
should not be criminalized for inciting somebody to create a risk of harm or
risk of public alarm.  One is inciting somebody to create a risk-not the harm
itself.


   The second reason is that the harm is too remote, being doubly attenuated
from the speech. The speaker does not himself pose a threat of force and
violence; the speaker merely poses a threat of creating, in turn, a threat of
force and violence.  Several Supreme Court cases mention attenuation as a
problem. In NAACP, the court noted the attenuation between Evers's speech and
any acts of violence, which occurred "weeks or months" after his speech. n357
Because of the attenuation, the violence was not sufficiently connected to the
speech. Also, attenuation gives too much discretion to the police to determine
when a risk might occur. As mentioned, in Forsyth, the Court found that an
administrator could not adjust the permit fee based on an in-advance guess that
a crowd might react strongly. n358


   Under Brandenburg, imminence is a requirement of incitement. It cannot be the
case that one can be penalized as a speaker for creating an imminent threat of
an imminent harm. The double imminence does not itself add up to imminence,
because it adds in a layer of time. If a person tweets "gather in Times Square,"
the state should not be able to punish that speech because the state assesses
both that the speech is likely to create an imminent gathering and that a
gathering in Times Square itself is likely to create imminent harm. The state
should be permitted to penalize the speech only when the speech itself, not the
gathering created by the speech, is intended and likely to cause imminent harm.


   Courts appear to have noticed this attenuation problem, as well, as a number
of states have developed case law that restricts these definitions. In Arkansas,
the court in Chapman v. State read the statute to prohibit incitement to riot
only where there was a clear, present, and immediate  [*61]  danger of acts of
force or violence. n359 Tennessee construes incitement as covering only conduct
directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and thus found it not
overbroad. n360 And Kentucky, while lacking related case law, is guided by a
1974 legislative commentary on the incitement statute which clarifies that riot
is "intended to be applied to disorderly demonstrations which threaten harm and
which clearly exceed the limits of free expression." However, the fact that
Kentucky bases its definition of riot on the threat of harm preserves the
problem of incitement to riot based on a risk-of-harm standard rather than an
actual harm standard.


   D. Incitement to Riot Under the Federal Anti-Riot Act


   As discussed in the previous Subpart, the Federal Anti-Riot Act does not ban
riot itself, or, strictly speaking, incitement to riot. It does, however, ban
travel or the use of interstate commerce, including the mail, with intent to
incite a riot, and an overt act done for that purpose. n361 Thus, using Twitter
to communicate between states with the intent to incite riot could be a
violation of the Federal Anti-Riot Act. Incitement to riot is not further
defined under the statute, although it is limited by § 2101(b) to not include
"the mere oral or written (1) advocacy of ideas or (2) expression of belief, not
involving advocacy of any act or acts of violence or assertion of the rightness
of, or the right to commit, any such act or acts." n362


   Again, Brandenburg requires (1) intent by the speaker; (2) the existence of a
listener who would understand the speech as inciting the action; n363 (3) the
likelihood that the action will happen; and (4) the imminence of the action.
n364 The Anti-Riot Act states that the speaker must intend to incite a riot.
n365 It contains no mention, however, of the existence of a listener, any
likelihood that the riot will happen, or imminence of harm.


   Like some of the state laws examined above, the Anti-Riot Act defines riot in
a way that creates another layer of First Amendment concerns. Riot is federally
defined as a public disturbance involving an assemblage of three or more
persons, with a threat of the commission of  [*62]  an act of violence. n366
Thus, the Anti-Riot Act resembles those state laws that penalize incitement of
an assembly that itself in turn threatens violence.  This, again, means that the
call for riot can be a step away from actual harm, and that additional step of
threat can be a second instance of speech.


   Where the Anti-Riot Act does define riot in terms of violence, it includes
violence that creates the danger of damage, rather than actual damage. The
federal version of riot presents the same problems raised in some state laws:
the speaker calling for a riot may be creating an imminent, likely riot, but not
imminent or likely harm.


   E. Constitutionality of the Federal Anti-Riot Act


   A number of courts have considered the constitutionality of the Anti-Riot
Act.  The Seventh Circuit considered it twice, first before Brandenburg in
National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Viet Nam v. Foran, n367 and
then several years later in United States v. Dellinger. n368 A district court in
the Northern District of California considered its constitutionality in In re
Shead, n369 but the Ninth Circuit in Carter v. United States decided that the
appellants from In re Shead did not have standing to challenge the statute's
constitutionality. n370 A district court in D.C., referring to these other
cases, cursorily held that the statute was constitutional. n371 For our
purposes, the two Seventh Circuit cases of Foran and Dellinger, and the
California district court case of In re Shead are the most elucidating.


   The Seventh Circuit's decision in Foran was the first case to analyze the
constitutionality of the Anti-Riot Act. Foran was decided before Brandenburg.
Five plaintiffs sought a declaratory judgment that the 1968 Anti-Riot Act was
unconstitutional on its face and as applied. The court concluded that on its
face, the Anti-Riot Act was not so vague as to be unconstitutional, and the
court did not consider whether the Act might be misapplied. n372


   The plaintiffs in Foran alleged that the statute extended to cover guilt by
association, loss of control over a peaceful assembly, and strict liability for
the acts of anyone joining an intended peaceful demonstration. The Seventh
Circuit rejected these arguments, reasoning  [*63]  that the statute required
intent to engage in one of the prohibited overt acts, and thus would not extend
to innocent participation in a demonstration. n373 The court concluded that "the
federal government has a strong interest in preventing violence to persons and
injury to their property, and when clear and present danger of riot appears, the
power of Congress to punish is obvious." n374 The Seventh Circuit in Foran did
not, however, reach whether the Act is constitutional where riot consists of a
threat of violence rather than actual violence, or risk of damage rather than
damage itself.


   In In re Shead, a California district court agreed with Foran that Section
2101 was constitutional. n375 Although this case was later affirmed by the Ninth
Circuit in Carter (with a decision not to reach the statute's constitutionality
for lack of standing), In re Shead is still worth examining because it is one of
few examples of detailed analysis of the statute's terms. n376 Despite agreeing
with Foran, the court noted that "Brandenburg may require a further discussion
of the constitutionality of 18 U.S.C. § 2101 . . . ." n377 The court succinctly
summarized the statute as follows:


   Congress has made it a crime if there is an intent to promote a riot at the
time of use of interstate or foreign facilities and at that time or thereafter,
the additionally-required overt acts are committed. This intent must be to
promote, and the overt acts must be committed for the purpose of promoting, the
disturbances defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2102(a) . . . . n378


   In re Shead addresses two arguments against the constitutionality of Section
2101. The first concerns the link between incitement and the definition of riot.
The court reasoned that "[i]f the disturbances promoted or threatened constitute
a clear and present danger, the overt acts themselves which are committed for
that purpose, necessarily must also constitute a clear and present danger." n379
Thus, the court concluded, the inclusion of clear and present danger in the
statute's definition of riot sufficiently limits the conduct condemned by the
Anti-Riot Act to the Brandenburg standard.


   This view is mistaken for two reasons. First, it mistakenly exports imminence
from the act being incited (riot) to the link between incitement and the action
being incited (the damage referred to in the definition of riot). The statute
bans inciting acts of violence that in turn  [*64]  create the clear and present
danger of damage. This is not equivalent to banning the incitement of imminent
and likely violence. In other words, incitement of violence that is not itself
likely or imminent does not create a clear and present danger of damage, even
where the violence, if it were to occur, would itself create a clear and present
danger of damage.


   Second, as discussed at great length above, the Anti-Riot Act defines "riot"
to include threats. These do not actually create a clear and present danger of
damage.  The statute's definition of "riot" in fact includes "threats of the
commission of acts of violence . . . where the performance of the threatened act
or acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger of . . . damage
or injury to the property of any other person or to the person." n380 Under this
definition of riot, the disturbance promoted does not actually constitute a
clear and present danger of anything. Riot constitutes a threat that, if acted
on, would constitute a clear and present danger of damage. This means that
incitement to that threat does not itself create a clear and present danger; it
creates a threat that if acted on would result in an act that would constitute a
clear and present danger.  But there is nothing in the federal definition of
riot that requires that threat to be likely to be performed.


   The plaintiffs in In re Shead also argued that the language in Section
2102(b) means that the statute unconstitutionally prohibits mere advocacy of
violence. The district court disagreed. It held that the "double negative"
excluding "advocacy of violence" from exceptions to the incitement statute did
not bring all "advocacy of violence" into the statute's purview. Moreover, it
held that Section 2102(b) in fact results in the "total exclusion [from the
statute] of expression not involving advocacy of violence, whether or not the
intent and required overt acts fall within the coverage of 18 U.S.C. § 2101(a),
2102(a)." n381


   The Seventh Circuit returned to the Anti-Riot Act some years later in United
States v. Dellinger. n382 The Seventh Circuit agreed to revisit the statute
despite Foran because Brandenburg had been decided in the interim, the
defendants raised new issues not raised in Foran, and because the Act "operates
in an area where there is substantial potential for abridgment of expression . .
. ." n383

     [*65]

   For the first time in a case addressing the Anti-Riot Act, the Seventh
Circuit explained that restrictions on riot could be problematic under the First
Amendment.  The court wrote that:


   [R]ioting, in history and by nature, almost invariably occurs as an
expression of political, social, or economic reactions, if not ideas. The
rioting assemblage is usually protesting the policies of a government, an
employer, or some other institution, or the social fabric in general, as was
probably the case in the riots of 1967 and 1968 which are the backdrop for this
legislation. A second reason is that a riot may well erupt out of an originally
peaceful demonstration which many participants intended to maintain as such.
n384


   Because of these substantial First Amendment concerns inherent in prohibiting
riot, and because the defendants in Dellinger in fact were being prosecuted
based on speeches they had given, the court explained that the "removed
expression must have a very substantial capacity to propel action, or some
similarly entwining relationship with it." n385


   Thus, the Seventh Circuit in Dellinger asked "whether, properly construed,"
the Anti-Riot Act "punishes speech only when a sufficiently close relationship
between such speech and violent action is found to exist." n386 The court held
that the Act did punish only sufficiently entwined speech, and thus was
constitutional. n387


   The Seventh Circuit reached this conclusion based on three prongs of
analysis.  First, it construed "incitement" as "sufficiently likely to propel
the violent action to be identified with action." n388 Second, it held that the
definition of riot was "enough of an assault on the property and personal safety
interests of the community so that participation in a riot or intentionally and
successfully causing a riot can be made a criminal offense." n389 And third, the
court addressed that same "double negative" in Section 2102(b) concerning the
exclusion of advocacy of violence from the exceptions to incitement, and
concluded that rather than bringing "mere advocacy" of violence into the scope
of the statute, which would indeed be unconstitutional, the language of Section
2102(b) was meant to forestall a defense that advocacy to violence is always
excluded. n390

     [*66]

   I retain the same criticism of the link made between the definition of riot
and incitement as I have outlined at great length above. The Seventh Circuit was
wrong that incitement, as defined by the Anti-Riot Act, is sufficiently entwined
with action to be identified with that action rather than protected as speech.
The federal definition of incitement to riot includes inciting other people to
create a mere threat of action, rather than inciting other people to actually do
damage. I also do not read the Anti-Riot Act as requiring real harm to occur; it
requires only that the assembled group be able to act on its threat, which, if
acted upon, would create a clear and present danger of damage. Thus, the Anti-
Riot Act's prohibitions are so attenuated from actual harm as to be
unconstitutional.


   The Seventh Circuit in Dellinger evinced significant trepidation about its
holding. The court ran through several hypothetical scenarios that it found
particularly problematic. It explained that:


   We do not pretend to minimize the first amendment problems presented on the
face of this statute. In one hypothetical application, the statute could result
in punishment of one who, having traveled interstate, or used the mail, with
intent to promote a riot, attempted to make a speech or circulate a handbill for
the purpose of encouraging three people to riot. Arguably the statute does not
require that the speech, if made, or the handbill, if circulated, succeed in any
substantial degree in encouraging the audience to riot. Arguably a frustrated
attempt to speak or circulate would not achieve the constitutionally essential
relationship with action in any event. Arguably the statute does not require
that a speech or handbill succeed in producing a riot or bringing the persons
addressed to the brink of a riot, prevented only by some intervening and
superseding force, and arguably no less degree of propelling of action by speech
or handbill will suffice, even though intent to succeed must also be proved.
Although we reject these arguments, in part as constructions of the statute, and
in part as grounds for declaring it void, we acknowledge the case is close. n391


   Thus, the federal Anti-Riot Act remains a problematic means to prosecute
speakers who call for a group to assemble.


   VII. Are Mobs Special?


   At the heart of the common law definition of riot lies an understanding of
crowds as inherently disruptive and uncontrollable. Although flash mobs are a
recent occurrence, mobs and their associated problems are not. There is a
longstanding history in the United States of both mob activity and government
fear of mob behavior. The actual  [*67]  nature of crowds, however, does not
support this fear. n392


   This Part first shows that there is a historical relationship between
understandings of crowd psychology and First Amendment theory. It then explains
why anti-riot laws exist, and provides policy suggestions as to what a good
anti-riot law might do.


   The first Subpart discusses the history of U.S. intellectuals' understanding
of mob behavior, and how it influenced the development of First Amendment
theory. The second Subpart moves from history to social psychology. The field of
crowd psychology emerged in the 1890s, describing crowds as naturally anarchic.
n393 More recent social psychology pushes back against this normative
conclusion, describing instead two factors that lead certain crowds to mob
violence: legitimacy and perception of power. n394 Other work suggests that
crowds in general act no differently than a group of individuals. n395 By
contrast, network theory explains that under certain circumstances, crowds can
behave differently than individuals, because crowds can lead to swarming
behavior after they reach critical density. n396


   This Part concludes that if governments regulate crowds at all, regulation
should be based on the reality of crowd behavior, not a historical fear of mob
action.


   A. The Historical Relationship Between Crowd Psychology and First Amendment
Theory


   Intellectuals' perceptions of how crowds behave have influenced the
development of First Amendment theory. In Fear of the Mob and Faith in
Government in Free Speech Discourse, 1919-1941, legal historian Richard W.
Steele tracks the development of First Amendment law  [*68]  between the World
Wars. n397 Steele explains that free speech theory was developed based on
intellectuals' views about crowd behavior. As intellectuals changed their view
about the nature of crowds, they changed their theory of what government should
be able to do with respect to speech regulation.


   Americans have not always conceived of crowds as bad. In colonial times,
Americans believed that mobs occurred only because of abuse of power by the
government. n398 Popular uprisings were "an evil . . . productive of good." n399
In 1768, the conservative Thomas Hutchinson stated that "[m]obs, a sort of them
at least, are constitutional." n400


   Around the beginning of the twentieth century, however, American social and
political thinkers became deeply concerned with the danger of mob rule. n401
Gustave Le Bon's The Crowd, a popular book in the era, depicted groups as more
easily moved to gullibility and irrationality than individuals. n402 Jurist
Roscoe Pound observed that in the United States, crowd mentality manifested in
Americans' tendency toward the vigilante mob. n403


   By the first decade of the twentieth century, the emerging national elite
began to see vigilantism as dangerous. A Senate committee investigated vigilante
activities in Colorado in 1904, n404 and Congress attempted, but failed, to
outlaw lynching in 1922. n405 The Supreme Court addressed vigilantism in Moore
v. Dempsey in 1923, upholding the duty of the federal judiciary to intercede in
a state trial to determine if the outcome had been shaped by mob intimidation.
n406


   Free speech theory developed in part against the backdrop of this fear  [*69]
of vigilantism. The American Bar Association promulgated a property rights-based
civil libertarianism to defend individual wealth against assaults by the masses.
n407 On the other side of the political spectrum, intellectuals feared the
growth of a collective "intolerant spirit" evidenced by the Ku Klux Klan, the
prohibition movement, and efforts to stamp out evolutionism, resulting in a need
to limit the power of majorities. n408


   Harvard professor Zechariah Chafee, Jr. situated free speech with respect to
mob behavior. n409 Free expression both protected minority speech from the
dictates of the majority, and provided a safety valve for complaints that could
otherwise develop into rebellion.


   Steele points out that the Supreme Court First Amendment cases of the time
generally stemmed from actions performed by state and local governments. n410
States were seen as either instruments of mass hysteria, or as unable to deal
with wrongs rooted in mass intolerance. n411 A 1931 Yale Law Journal article
discussing freedom of speech noted that states failed to protect men from
violence and mobs. n412


   By 1939, federal authority had become the avowed locus of the protection of
free expression from popular repression. n413 The Justice Department
investigated the intimidation of coal miners in Kentucky, n414 and the Criminal
Division established a special unit to address civil rights violations. n415


   As protection of free expression consolidated in federal hands, the
intellectual conception of mob mentality changed. In the 1930s, Steele argues,
the success of fascism and Nazism shifted intellectual thinking about mob
behavior. Instead of fearing local majorities who would suppress the minority
view, intellectuals began fearing the "human herd['s]" capacity to be led into
revolution. n416 As Steele puts it, "the masses were not congenitally evil, just
infinitely malleable." n417 The  [*70]  "charismatic leader" was now the threat,
not the vigilante mob itself. n418 Orson Welles's famous War of the Worlds prank
cemented this understanding of crowd behavior by creating mass panic through a
radio broadcast, n419 and a number of treatises on the topic appeared, by
authors such as Peter Drucker, Waldo Frank, McGeorge Bundy, and Lewis Mumford.
n420


   Days after Germany's 1939 assault on Poland, Attorney General Frank Murphy
announced his intention to curb intolerance and protect deserving minorities-by
dealing with "un-American" activities that might rouse fascist mob behavior.
n421 The ABA's Bill of Rights Committee, which had previously been concerned
with protecting civil liberties to protect property rights, now supported
expanding federal police surveillance. n422 Steele observes that by 1941,
leftist intellectuals such as historian George Mowry supported federal
protection from fascism by cracking down on the Right. n423 Max Lerner similarly
concluded that the greater danger to minorities was not from the federal
government, but from local vigilantism. n424 This sentiment extended to civil
libertarians: Roger Baldwin, the founder of the ACLU, developed cordial
relations with FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, although he did express
reservations about Hoover's authority to compile a list of potential
subversives. n425


   Steele's detailed description of the development of intellectual thought on
free expression between the World Wars evinces a historical relationship between
conceptions of mob behavior and understanding of what role government should
play.  In the 1920s, theorists believed that crowds led to anarchic behavior and
repressive majority rule through vigilante justice. Therefore, theorists at the
time thought minority speakers should be protected from the excesses of crowd
repression.  Consistent with this understanding, a number of states have
anti-vigilante approaches to riot laws, with explicit prohibitions of lynchings,
n426 and make cities liable for damage that occurs when they  [*71]  fail to
prevent vigilante justice. n427


   In the late 1930s, against the rise of fascism, theorists instead saw crowds
as herds that were compelled not of their own accord, but by charismatic
leaders. Under that understanding of how mobs form and behave, theorists thought
government should repress the speech that leads to crowd formation, rather than
protect individual speech done in front of the crowd.


   Although no scholar has analyzed this dynamic after World War II,
understandings of mob behavior clearly influenced the development of the Federal
Anti-Riot Act in the 1960s. The Federal Anti-Riot Act was enacted in response to
civil disorders of the 1960s. n428 It was "based on the premise that riots are
caused by roving bands of agitators who escape across state lines before they
can be apprehended by local authorities." n429 The bill was styled on the House
floor as "a weapon against an alleged Communist-inspired anarchy sweeping the
country." n430


   This historical relationship between U.S. society's understanding of crowd
behavior and the regulation of speech is more complex than a dichotomous
understanding that mobs are good when they are peaceful and political but bad
when they are violent and consisting of low value speech. The fundamental
understanding of what a mob is matters when it comes to figuring out the
boundaries of acceptable governmental regulation.


   B. Current Crowd Psychology


   Understanding how a mob works-whether it is inevitably anarchic, or harmless
but prone to following calls to violence-is crucial to making sense of whether
and how to regulate riots. If crowds are inevitably anarchic, it would be
logical to regulate all in-person gatherings over a certain size. If crowds are
usually harmless, but become violent in the face of a charismatic leader, then
it would be more effective and less harmful to regulate the speaker who calls
for a crowd to form, and directs that crowd towards violence. Leaving aside the
[*72]  First Amendment for a moment, this Subpart attempts to wade through crowd
psychology to understand how and why riots occur.


   Crowd psychology emerged as a discipline in the 1890s, when Gustave Le Bon
wrote a famous treatise called The Crowd. n431 Other scholars wrote about crowd
behavior as early as the 1840s. n432 Le Bon argued that in crowds, individuals
disappear into the mental unity of the whole. In the 1950s, American social
psychologist Leon Festinger named this process of self-effacement
"deindividuation." n433 American social psychologist Philip Zimbardo took up
studies of "deindividuation" in the 1970s, famously performing the Stanford
Prison Experiment of 1971. n434


   "Deindividuation" theorizes that through anonymity, crowds allow individuals
to eschew societal norms, and consequently crowds naturally tend towards a state
of anarchy and senseless violence. More recent studies show how a group
self-selects towards increasingly violent behavior, as individuals who do not
agree with group goals leave and are replaced by those who do. This version of
crowd psychology provides much justification for government regulation of crowd
dynamics, since most crowds under this analysis would be likely to disobey laws
and cause harm.


   However, the "deindividuation" theory, also referred to as "contagion" theory
because it posits that crowds transform individual people, has prompted much
disagreement. Even introductory sociology textbooks limit or reject
deindividuation. n435 Several other theories have emerged to explain crowd
behavior offering differing observations about how crowds behave.


   Convergence theory argues that crowd behavior is based not on transformation
of its members but on a shared self-conception and a shared set of grievances.
n436 Research by Clifford Stott suggests that riots occur not because
individuals anonymously disappear into a crowd, but because individuals identify
with each other, and frame that identity  [*73]  in conflict with authority
figures such as the police. n437 Critics of convergence theory point out that it
(arguably incorrectly) assumes that crowds engage in unanimous or mutually
inclusive behavior. n438


   A third perspective, called the emergent-norm perspective, defines collective
behavior as "social behavior in which usual conventions cease to guide social
action and people collectively transcend, bypass, or subvert established
institutional patterns and structures." n439 This perspective posits that crowds
behave with more spontaneity than individuals. Special spontaneity of crowd
behavior, however, has been refuted by a number of studies. n440


   In 2005, David Schweingruber and Ronald T. Wohlstein argued that sociology
textbooks should do away with overarching theories of crowd behavior entirely,
and look instead to empirical research that has been done on how crowds actually
behave. n441 They explain that critical thinking about crowds has shifted from
seeing them as suggestible, emotional, and irrational to seeing them as "shaped
by the same forces that shape other social behavior." n442


   Basing their analysis on work by Carl Couch in 1968 n443 and Clark McPhail in
1991, n444 Schweingruber and Wohlstein debunk seven myths about crowd behavior:
irrationality, emotionality, suggestibility, destructiveness, spontaneity,
anonymity, and unanimity. The myth of irrationality claims that crowds cause
people to lose their ability to engage in rational thought; for example, causing
panic. n445 However, research into emergency dispersal has shown that people in
crowds in dangerous situations don't panic, but instead are guided by social
relationships and exhibit altruistic behavior. n446 The myth of emotionality
claims that people in crowds are more governed by their emotions. n447 Both
Couch's 1968 work and a 1987 study by Turner and Killian argue that emotions are
in fact present in many social interactions, and crowds are not exceptional in
this regard. n448

     [*74]

   The third myth is that people in crowds are more likely to obey others. No
research supports this conclusion. The fact that crowds usually do not disperse
when ordered to by authorities suggests that the myth of suggestibility may in
fact be incorrect. n449 The fourth myth claims that people in crowds are more
likely to be violent. Couch argued that in clashes between crowds and
authorities, the authorities in fact commit more violence than the crowds. n450
Research has shown that crowd violence is rare, n451 and is often carried out by
small groups within the gathering. n452 Police interaction with crowds may in
fact spur crowd violence where it wouldn't otherwise occur. n453


   No research has demonstrated that crowd behavior is more spontaneous than
individual behavior. n454 In fact, studies have shown that many crowds require
planning or rely on "repertoires of collective action" that are understood by
other members of the culture, such as strikes or boycotts. n455


   Deindividuation relies in large part on the idea that people in crowds are
anonymous and thus unaccountable for their behavior, which allows them to do
things they otherwise would not do. A number of studies have noted that crowds
are not composed of anonymous individuals, but of small groups that know each
other well. n456 Anonymity may exist vis a vis authority figures, but not with
respect to other members of the crowd. n457 Presumably, then, social norms would
still be enforced between these individuals. Individuals gather not because they
seek to benefit from anonymity, but because of the social links and common goals
they share.


   The myth of unanimity claims that crowds act in unison. Research has shown
that crowds in fact contain alternating and varying individual and collective
actions, with unanimous or near-unanimous behavior being rare and short- lived.
n458

     [*75]

   So what do crowds actually look like? Much research has been done about the
assembling and dispersal process, and the composition of crowds. n459 Temporal
availability and spatial access are both important. People usually assemble with
small groups of companions within the crowd. Crowds may be subdivided into
different categories based on features such as level of organization; political
demonstrations differ from "prosaic crowds." n460


   One feature of crowds that has been confirmed as unique to crowd as opposed
to individual behavior is the tendency to "swarm." Soccer games and rock
concerts in particular have generated deadly crowds, where participants die of
"compressional asphyxia" from the pressure of people swarming around them. n461
These crushes are not produced by "panic," which evidence does not support, but
by "crazes"-people moving towards something they want, rather than away from
something they fear. n462 Swarms require large numbers, or high density. At
critical densities, crowds change from collective behavior (such as avoiding
each other on a busy street) to failing to behave collectively. Unlike ants,
humans cannot transmit information about the physical dynamics of a crowd across
a swarm. n463 Individuals at the back of a crowd have no feedback that they are
injuring those in the front.


   In this particular feature of crowd behavior, there is actually an argument
for allowing incitement: having leaders can prevent a swarm, because everybody
looks to the leader for communication about the group. As long as the leader is
outside of the crush and visible, the swarm might be prevented.


   C. What an Anti-Riot Law Should Address, Given Current Understanding of
Crowds


   Legislators should consider crowd psychology in determining the goals of any
anti-riot laws. In practice, anti-riot legislation arises from a longstanding
tradition of fear of mob behavior, and from outdated common law traditions. n464

     [*76]

   Leaving First Amendment considerations aside for a moment, the following
paragraphs outline (1) the harm, specific to riots, that legislators want to
prevent; and (2) the features of a statute that, with a basis in crowd
psychology, could prevent or punish riots. Current legislation does not map onto
what we know about crowd behavior.


   Mobs are harmful for a number of reasons. First and foremost, they can
actually become violent or destructive. Second, mobs can overwhelm the police,
making enforcement more difficult. Third, by their nature, mobs threaten
existing social structure. Fourth, at least one strand of crowd psychology,
deindividuation, suggests that mobs themselves cause the people in them to do
bad things.


   When a mob actually causes harm, clearly the direct perpetrators of that harm
should be punished. Whether that punishment should be extended to the whole of
the mob is another story. Deindividuation would suggest that the entire crowd is
responsible for the anarchic crowd mentality, so the entire crowd should be
punished for being present when the bad acts occur. Conversely, convergence
theorists see mobs as being made of like-minded individuals and would therefore
hold each individual accountable only for his or her own acts and intent. A
third approach is possible: multiple studies show that a mob is in fact made out
of small groups of people who know each other well, suggesting that it might be
fair to punish the people within that immediate small group, rather than the
whole of the crowd.


   The other categories of possible harm-overwhelming the police, threatening
social structure, and exacerbating the tendency of members to do crimes-suggest
that mobs or riots might be punished for existing as a gathering in large
numbers, whether or not an act of violence takes place. This suggestion is
dangerous from a First Amendment perspective, because it brings exercise of the
right of assembly into collision with regulating mob activity.


   Deindividuation theorists would presumably punish assemblies of a certain
size, under the theory that large crowds inevitably lead to bad behavior.
Legislators relying on deindividuation theory could be more careful, and punish
large crowds that appear to be kicking out more moderate members as they unify
towards bad anarchic behavior. Such laws could refer to the common intent of
those present.

     [*77]

   Convergence theorists instead believe that crowds are not innately bad, but
may give rise to bad behavior under certain conditions. Both legitimacy and
power are required for crowds to turn violent. n465 If legislators are convinced
by convergence theory, they might look to evidence that the mob is going after
the police or otherwise legitimizing itself by countering existing social
structure. For evidence of internal belief in the mob's power, they again might
look to the size of the gathering, or presence of weapons.


   Numbers therefore are important under several theories of crowd behavior. For
deindividuation theorists, a large crowd is required for people to feel
adequately anonymous and unrestrained by social strictures. For convergence
theorists, a large number is required for a crowd to believe it has the power to
act. For those researching swarming patterns, a high density of bodies is
necessary for a swarm to take place. Nobody, however, has estimated what that
critical number might be.


   This presents what philosophers call the sorites paradox, which arises when
it is difficult to determine the boundaries of a concept. For example, it is
unclear at which point a collection of individual grains becomes a heap. This
could lead to the false conclusion that a collection of grains can never become
a heap. n466 Similarly, it may be impossible to identify the precise number of
people at which a group gathering becomes a crowd capable of swarming, but we
may still believe that mobs, as such, exist. Thus, states must struggle with
determining the number of people that gives rise to dangerous crowd behavior.


   As discussed above, Schweingruber and Wohlstein convincingly argue that
crowds may just be an example of multiple individuals acting at the same time,
with no additional characteristic imputed by the crowd's existence. Under this
understanding, crowds should be regulated only if one would regulate an
individual doing the same activity. Numbers should not matter, except with
respect to how hard it would be to police multiple individuals acting at the
same time. This view is in line with Baker's theory of freedom of assembly,
outlined above, in which Baker explains that states cannot regulate an assembly
for doing something where they would not regulate an individual for doing that
same thing.


   Similarly, Schweingruber and Wohlstein argue that crowds are no more
susceptible to acting on command than individuals. This suggests that
incitement-to-riot statutes should regulate actual harm caused by crowd
behavior, not the interaction between a speaker and a crowd.   [*78]  Incitement
to riot should not be based on a myth that speaking to a large assembly is more
likely to produce action than speaking to an individual.


   State riot statutes apply to surprisingly small groups of people. They
contain no language about crowd density, the one factor research supports may
contribute to harm caused specifically by crowds. Instead, state statutes rely
on dated misunderstandings-that allowing people to assemble in groups increases
the chance that collective behavior will become anarchic and riotous. As a
matter of policy, rather than constitutional theory, this is a mistake and
overregulates behavior that may not lead to harm at all.


   VIII. Do New Media Matter?


   There have been a number of claims that the internet and social media have
changed the ways in which crowds gather. The question is whether these features
require either a change in the Brandenburg standard, or additional regulation
specifically targeting online communication. I believe they do not. Claims about
internet exceptionalism include the following: the internet breeds extremism;
the internet allows people to tap into a "mega-underground" of niche
participants; the internet allows for a larger scale of people to be reached in
a "cyber cascade"; the internet allows for a greater diversity of geographic
origin; the internet allows for greater speed and spontaneity; and the internet
makes crowd dispersal impossible.


   Cass R. Sunstein claims that by its nature, online communication breeds
extremism. n467 Groups of like-minded people become more extreme in their
collective views as they talk amongst themselves, n468 and Sunstein asserts that
the internet, more than other media, allows these groups to filter what content
they receive and create an echo chamber. From a crowd psychology perspective,
this means that groups have pre-selected for identity, which preemptively
contributes to both their sense of legitimacy and the deindividuation of
individuals within the group, causing them to be more likely to disregard social
strictures and commit violence.


   However, Sunstein's assertion about online fragmentation has been widely
contested. Yochai Benkler, for example, describes an internet where "clusters of
moderately read sites provide platforms for vastly greater numbers of speakers,"
and those clustering sites are often of general interest rather than extremist
views. n469 A 2004 Pew study  [*79]  similarly concluded that many Americans
learn about competing views online. n470 Moreover, Sunstein himself notes that
this process of self- reinforcement is by no means limited to the internet as
medium; special interest radio, television, and even newspapers, can produce the
same effect. n471 The claim that communication breeds extremism is no more
applicable to the internet than to other existing media, and consequently
requires no change in Brandenburg.


   Related to this idea of the echo chamber is the claim that the internet
allows niche groups to form that would be too costly to assemble in real life.
This claim has real substance, but it is not clear that it should affect
Brandenburg analysis.  The idea stems from Chris Anderson's idea of the "long
tail," which argues that the enormous size of the online customer base ensures
that online retailers will provide goods to a niche market that is not worth
serving offline. n472 Similarly, people with niche political interests can find
each other online, where it would have been too costly for them to gather in
person. n473 Bill Wasik refers to these large niches as "mega-undergrounds," and
suggests that many flash mobs occur because underground niche groups feel a need
to publicly identify themselves in person. n474 This may accurately describe a
new feature of online behavior, but it does not in itself indicate a new reason
to regulate or a need for a new method of regulation. The fact that group
members can find each other more effectively does not lead to a conclusion that
government should regulate them more.


   However, a related feature of online communication is its ability to reach
huge numbers of people, and one can more convincingly argue that this feature
requires a reassessment of the incitement standard. Sunstein explains that the
internet reaches "hundreds, thousands, or even millions," referring to the quick
accumulation of mass communication as a cyber "cascade." n475 Wasik's
mega-undergrounds differ from past niche groups in that they are "mega." These
groups also gather from a much more geographically diverse area than past crowds
did. n476 The size of a crowd may have implications for Brandenburg's
application to incitement to riot, as it has implications for how much damage a
crowd  [*80]  might cause.


   But Brandenburg contains no mention of the impact on the size of a group of
listeners on First Amendment analysis; and other cases protected assemblies of
over 2000 people, suggesting that size, in fact, does not matter. n477
Additionally, incitement-to-riot statutes already penalize groups as small as
three to ten people, suggesting that the internet's ability to reach masses has
no impact on the potential applicability of existing laws any more than it
impacts constitutional standards. The legal question raised is not a Brandenburg
question but a question of court interpretation of incitement-to-riot statutes:
will an online speaker need to intend to reach a crowd of a particular size, or
can he or she be held liable merely for speaking to the online community more
generally, with the understanding that the speech is likely to reach a large
number of individuals?  Because of the small numbers involved in most
incitement-to-riot statutes, this will likely be an insignificant question,
because most people could be found to have the specific intent to reach more
than three other people with online speech.


   The most significant claim about internet exceptionalism concerns the speed
of communication. This might impact Brandenburg's imminence requirement. Wasik
celebrates the fact that flash mobs are often "highly spontaneous; the crowd is
told where they were going and what they will do there only minutes beforehand."
n478 If groups can form so quickly that police cannot react, there might be an
argument for ignoring the imminence requirement and allowing regulation before
the call to arms happens. This, however, is exactly why Brandenburg has an
imminence standard: the further back from actual harm regulation gets, the more
it impinges on free expression.


   Paradoxically, the other imminence issue raised by online communications is
that a speaker might announce a gathering too far in advance, and thus put him
or herself outside of Brandenburg's range of imminence entirely. A number of
scholars have bemoaned the Brandenburg imminence requirement in the context of
instruction manuals and hit lists. n479 This concern does not have anything to
do with the internet as a medium, since publication of plans or hit lists as
books and pamphlets raise the same problems. Hess appears to address this issue,
reasoning that the state cannot regulate the "advocacy of illegal  [*81]  action
at some indefinite future time." n480 But if a person advocates an action at a
definite future time, it is not clear how imminent that future time must be for
Brandenburg to allow regulation. n481 This is not a question of changing
Brandenburg; it is a question of its application, and how courts choose to
interpret the imminence requirement.


   Brandenburg suggests that when action is advocated far enough in advance,
police can prepare for it and avert danger through preparation; therefore,
suppression or punishment of non-imminent speech is not allowed. It is only when
the danger is so imminent that police cannot prepare themselves that regulation
of incitement is justified. This analysis does not change when the communication
is made online. In fact, online communication is centralized, often searchable,
and not ephemeral, which makes it easier for police to track calls to action and
respond to them than it was in the days of pamphleteering. n482


   One final point about the nature of social media is that it may be harder to
disperse crowds when they have communication devices. Wasik points out that in
the UK riots, the "mob" often physically split into smaller groups that remained
connected via their Blackberries. n483 This concern should be addressed by
Brandenburg, however. If a crowd splits up and members continue to wander the
area, but they message each other indicating that they should immediately meet
again to conduct violence, that messaging in the heat of the moment might be
properly regulated as incitement. Otherwise, the problem of the "virtual mob"
leads into tricky territory. If physical masses are what contribute most to
damaging crowd behavior, then it is not justifiable to regulate people as crowds
or riots once they physically disperse.


   There are also features of online media that make them less threatening to
government. Molly Beutz Land, for example, notes an inverse relationship between
broad mobilization and meaningful participation, arguing that as activist groups
reach larger numbers online, the depth of the participation of each individual
person drops. n484 This relationship happens in part because of the growth of
size of the movements. Political scientist Navid Hassanpour has observed that
the relationship between social media and the Arab Spring in Egypt is
complicated; people went outside to protest in part because the  [*82]
government shut down the internet, not because somebody called for organization
to occur. n485 Malcolm Gladwell rather famously commented that the internet in
fact lulls people into complacency rather than spurring them to action. n486


   In conclusion, there are a number of features of new media that appear
particularly worrisome to regulators. These features can contribute to activism.
n487 They might also contribute to genocide. n488 However, these features should
not inspire a change in the Brandenburg standard, as many of are the same issues
that exist in other media such as print, radio, or television. In the case of
incitement to riot, there should be no change in Brandenburg to reflect the rise
of flash mobs.


   IX. The Connection Between New Media and Assembly


   Assembly is one mode of participation in public culture. Before the internet,
when the primary means of accessing the public was top-down media such as
newspapers or television, public assembly was one of the few ways individuals
could participate in crafting public culture. The internet is in some ways the
virtual version of physical assembly. n489 Thus both in-person and online
assembly are particularly important if the goal of the First Amendment is
cultural democracy, regardless of the content of the assembly.


   X. Model Law


   This paper closes by attempting to outline a constitutional and proportionate
incitement-to-riot statute. Under Brandenburg, the incitement portion of the
statute must contain intent, imminence, likelihood, and an audience likely to
understand the command. I also incorporate lessons from more recent crowd
psychology, suggesting as a matter of policy that the regulation should be of a
larger group that is more likely to swarm. Congress itself once proposed raising
the number of people required for riot from three to five, though the bill did
not  [*83]  pass. n490 Below, I propose that a more reasonable base number might
be fifteen. The following language could constitute a model incitement to riot
statute:


   A person is guilty of inciting to riot when he or she clearly and
intentionally urges [15] or more people to imminently and collectively engage in
force or violence that damages property or injures people, at a time and place
and under circumstances where such force or violence is imminent and likely to
occur.


   The act or conduct may not include the mere oral or written advocacy of ideas
or expression of belief that does not urge the commission of an act of immediate
violence.


   Alternatively, one could set up a statutory regime that redefines the
underlying crime of riot. Riot could be defined as a gathering of a certain
number of people that, as common law required, involves the use of force or
violence-not the mere threat or risk of force or violence. This underlying
definition could require actual damage. Riot and incitement to riot could thus
alternatively be defined as follows:


   A person commits the crime of riot if, intentionally with [15] or more other
persons, he or she engages in force and violence and thereby causes injury to
persons or damage to property.


   A person commits the crime of incitement to riot when he or she clearly and
intentionally urges [15] or more persons to immediately riot, at a time and
place and under circumstances where such riot is imminent and likely to occur.


   XI. Conclusion


   Public gatherings can be highly threatening to governments, as seen over the
past year. They are also essential to democracy, legitimizing government by
allowing direct public participation in policy making. Prohibiting public
gatherings or a call to public gatherings can itself lead to revolution, as
crowds legitimize their behavior by reacting to overly strong state authority.
Flash mobs and flash robs are new phenomena, but intellectuals' understandings
of mob action have influenced the development of First Amendment jurisprudence
since its inception. This article calls for a reevaluation of our understanding
of mobs, and awareness of the prejudices we operate under when writing
legislation to control crowds.


   The United States is home to the most speech-protective law in the world. As
legislators and courts deal with the inevitable backlash to  [*84]  flash mobs,
they must reexamine existing incitement-to-riot statutes to ensure compliance
with the First Amendment. They must do so with the same understanding the
Supreme Court had back in 1937: that it is imperative to "preserve inviolate the
constitutional rights of free speech, free press and free assembly in order to
maintain the opportunity for free political discussion, to the end that
government may be responsive to the will of the people and that changes, if
desired, may be obtained by peaceful means. Therein lies the security of the
Republic, the very foundation of constitutional government." n491

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Citizens Against Rent Control v. City of Berkeley, 454 U.S. 290, 294 (1981).




n2  Terminiello v. City of Chi., 337 U.S. 1, 21 (1949) (Frankfurter, J.,
dissenting) (quoting Father Terminiello's speech to the Christian Veterans of
America) (emphasis in original).




n3  Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S. 296, 308 (1940).




n4  395 U.S. 444 (1969).




n5  See Bill Wasik, Riot: Self-Organized, Hyper-Networked Revolts-Coming t o a C
i t y N e a r Y o u , W i r e d , D e c . 1 6 , 2 0 1 1 ,
http://www.wired.com/magazine/2011/12/ff riots/all/.




n6  See Jane E. Kirtley, Privacy Protection and Related Developments in Internet
Law, in Communications Law in the Digital Age 2011 212-13 (2011).




n7  See, e.g., Federal Anti-Riot Act, 18 U.S.C. §§ 2101, 2102 (1996).




n8  To my knowledge, nobody has examined the substance of state anti-riot laws
or incitement-to-riot laws and how they differ. A 1985 American Law Report
annotation compiled state cases to examine what constitutes sufficiently violent
conduct to establish the crime of riot in state courts, but did not reach other
elements of the crime, such as intent or the number of persons involved. It also
did not address incitement to riot. See generally Martin J. McMahon, Annotation,
What Constitutes Sufficiently Violent, Tumultuous, Forceful, Aggressive, or
Terrorizing Conduct to Establish Crime of Riot in State Courts, 38 A.L.R.4th 648
(1985).




n9  Kurt Andersen, The Protester, Time, Dec. 14, 2011,
http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,2101745 2102132
2102373,00 .html.




n10  Wasik, supra note 5.




n11  A comedic performance art group named Improv Everywhere formed in 2001 to
carry out "missions" in public places, with some involving volunteers who were
not a member of the group; Improv Everywhere claims that its acts are not flash
mobs. See Improv Everywhere, http://improveverywhere.com/faq/ (last visited Dec.
30, 2012). Bill Wasik has often been credited with the creation of the term
"flash mobs." Clay Shirky, Here Comes Everybody: The Power of Organizing without
Organizations 165 (2008); see also Wasik, supra note 5.




n12  See generally Wasik, supra note 5.




n13  Shirky, supra note 11, at 165. For an example of a performance in Grand
Central Station by the group Improv Everywhere, see Frozen Grand Central, Improv
Everywhere (Sept. 28, 2012, 3:16 PM),
http://improveverywhere.com/2008/01/31/frozen-grand-central/.




n14  See Howard Rheingold, Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution (2002).




n15  Shirky, supra note 11, at 166.




n16  Daniel Tovrov, Flash Mobs: 5 Biggest Flash Mobs of All Time, Int'l Bus.
Times Aug. 24, 2011, http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/203118/20110824/flash-mob-
biggest-flash-mobs-ever.htm.




n17  See generally Wasik, supra note 5 (discussing the UK riots and their link
to social media); see also Tovrov, supra note 16 ("Thanks mostly to BBM, the
BlackBerry instant messaging service, youth all over the country began amassing
in commercial centers, breaking into stores and destroying everything in their
path. For the first three days, destruction and chaos ruled over police and
order. People set fire to cars, buses and buildings, and groups of masked kids
robbed people in restaurants and on the street. Five people were killed over
five days, in incidents that have been deemed murder.").




n18  See Ian Urbina, Mobs Are Born as Word Grows by Text Message, N.Y. Times,
Mar. 24, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/25/us/25mobs.html; Miguel Bustillo
& Ann Zimmerman, 'Flash Robs' Vex Retailers, Wall St. J., Oct. 21, 2011,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203752604576643422390552158.html;
Matt Diener, Flashmob Flash-Robs Lingerie Store in Washington, D.C., Technorati,
July 26, 2011,
http://technorati.com/technology/article/flashmob-flash-robs-lingerie-store-
in/; Brandon Cooper, 'Flash Rob': Thieves, Like Locusts, Clean Out Store, The C
o l u m b u s D i s p a t c h , D e c . 1 9 , 2 0 1 1 ,
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/national
world/2011/12/19/flash-rob-thieves- like-locusts-clean-out-store.html; 'Flash
Mob' Robs Maryland 7-Eleven in Less Than a M i n u t e , P o l i c e S a y , C N
N , A u g . 1 6 , 2 0 1 1 ,
http://edition.cnn.com/2011/CRIME/08/16/maryland.flash.mob/ [hereinafter CNN];
Chicago Flash Mobs: Police Superintendent Vows Crackdown, Rep. Rush Takes
Exception, Huffington Post, June 7, 2011,
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/06/07/chicago- flash-mobs-police n
872730.html; Stan Donaldson, Flash Mobs: Cleveland Heights Fair Violence was
Catalyst for Crackdown, Cleveland.com, Dec. 19, 2011,
http://blog.cleveland.com/metro/2011/12/flash mobs cleveland heights f.html;
'Flash Mobs' on the Rise, NACS Online, May 9, 2011,
http://www.nacsonline.com/NACS/News/Daily/Pages/ND0509113.aspx; Debra Black,
'Flash Robs' Invade Canada, TheStar.com, Aug. 5, 2011,
http://www.thestar.com/news/canada/article/1034739-flash-robs-invade-canada?bn=1
; Thieves Use Facebook and Twitter to Co-ordinate 'Flashrob' Raid of Victoria's
Secret Store, Daily Mail, July 26, 2011,
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-
2018835/Facebook-Twitter-used-plan-flashrob-raid-Victorias-Secret-store.html.




n19  Cooper, supra note 18 ("D.C. police, who also have had to deal with some
thefts labeled as flash-mob robberies, said they have no evidence that social
media was used in any recent group crimes, spokeswoman Gwendolyn Crump said.").




n20  Donaldson, supra note 18 ("But what happened in Cleveland Heights in June
does not fit the popular definition of a flash mob, The Plain Dealer has
learned. Unlike in other cities, no general call to gather appears to have
spread on Facebook or Twitter . . . And it's not to say that social media played
no role in what happened. When the violence began, police have found, teens were
buzzing about it in real time via Twitter and Facebook, rapidly spreading word
of the disturbance and likely exacerbating it.").




n21  Wasik, supra note 5.




n22  See id.




n23  Merriam-Webster Dictionary (1981).




n24  See Urbina, supra note 18.




n25  Kirtley, supra note 6, at 212.




n26  Cassie Murdoch, Things Get Ugly in Virginia as Riot Police Crack Down on
Pro-Choice Protesters, Jezebel, Mar. 5 2012, http://jezebel.com/5890406/things-
get-ugly-in-virginia-as-riot-police-crack-down-on-pro-choice-protesters.




n27  Id.




n28  See Kirtley, supra note 6, at 212-13.




n29  CNN, supra note 18.




n30  Alexia Tsotsis, BART Shuts Down Cell Service to Thwart Rumored Protests,
Gets Actual Protests (and Has to Close Stations), TC, Aug. 15, 2011,
http://techcrunch.com/2011/08/15/bart-shuts-down-cell-service-to-thwart-rumored-
protests-gets-actual-protests/.




n31  Urbina, supra note 18.




n32  Kirtley, supra note 6, at 212.




n33  Pat Galbincea, Flash Mob Ordinances Become Law in Cleveland Minus Mayor
Frank Jackson's Signature, Cleveland.com, Dec. 12, 2011,
http://blog.cleveland.com/metro/2011/12/flash mob ordinances become la.html.




n34  See id.




n35  Id.




n36  Thomas Ott, Cleveland Again Targets Social Media Role in 'Flash M o b s ' ,
C l e v e l a n d . c o m , D e c . 6 , 2 0 1 1 ,
http://blog.cleveland.com/metro/2011/12/cleveland again targets social.html.




n37  Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S. 296, 308 (1940).




n38  See generally Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444 (1969).




n39  See, e.g., Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b) (2011); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.2
(2011); Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-104(1) (2009); N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-288.2 (2011).
See also 18 U.S.C. § 2101 (2006).




n40  See generally State v. Beasley, 317 So. 2d 750 (Fla. 1975); Commonwealth v.
Hayes, 209 A.2d 38 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1965).




n41  See, e.g., Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-104(1) (2009). Montana's statute also
explains that the act "may not include the mere oral or written advocacy of
ideas or expression of belief that does not urge the commission of an act of
immediate violence."




n42  S.C. Code Ann. § 16-5-130 (2011).




n43  N.Y. Penal Law § 240.08 (2012).




n44  A number of state courts have recognized that to be constitutional,
incitement must be defined in a way that conforms to Supreme Court doctrine.
Thus, in New York, the court in People v. Tolia held that the elements of intent
and "clear and present danger" must be read into the statute for the
incitement-to-riot statute to be constitutional. In Louisiana, the court in
State v. Douglas read in willfulness and immediacy. North Carolina clarified in
State v. Brooks that only advocacy of imminent lawless action can come within
the purview of the incitement to riot statute. An Oklahoma court recently held
that criminalizing incitement to riot is constitutional if it is construed to
apply to speech that meets the clear and present danger test. And a Tennessee
court restricted the statute's scope to conduct both directed at inciting and
producing imminent lawless action, and likely to produce such action.




n45  18 U.S.C. § 2101 (2011).




n46  See Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 449 (1969).




n47  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-203 (2012); Cal. Penal Code § 404.6 (West 2012); Ga.
Code Ann. § 16-11-31 (2012); Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b) (2011); N.D. Cent.
Code § 12.1-25-01 (2011).




n48  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-203.




n49  Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-31.




n50  Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b).




n51  Commonwealth v. Hayes, 209 A.2d 38, 39 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1965).




n52  S.D. Codified Laws § 22-10-6 (2011); Va. Code Ann. § 18.2-408 (2011).




n53  Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18.9-102(1) (2012).




n54  Cal. Penal Code § 404.6 (2011).




n55  Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b) (2011).




n56  Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-104(1) (2009).




n57  N.Y. Penal Law § 240.08 (2012).




n58  Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-31(a) (2012).




n59  Nev. Rev. Stat. § 203.040 (2011).




n60  See, e.g., Winter v. G.P. Putnam's Sons, 938 F.2d 1033, 1036 (9th Cir.
1991). But see, e.g., Rice v. Paladin Enters., 128 F.3d 233, 253 (4th Cir.
1997).




n61  See, e.g., People v. Tolia, 214 A.D.2d 57, 63-64 (N.Y. App. Div. 1995);
State v. Douglas, 278 So.2d 485, 487 (La. 1973); State v. Brooks, 215 S.E.2d
111, 117 (N.C. 1975); Price v. State, 873 P.2d 1049, 1051 (Okla. Crim. App.
1994).




n62  KKK v. MLK Worshippers, 735 F.Supp. 745, 749 (M.D. Tenn. 1990) (striking
down a parade permit ordinance as unconstitutional because it allowed too much
latitude for discriminatory denial of a permit, limiting denial to parades that
create a "clear and present danger of imminent lawless activity" where the
permit was applied for 45 days before the parade date).




n63  See, e.g., United States v. McFarlane, 26 F. Cas.1088, 1088 (C.C.D.C.
1804).




n64  See Schlamp v. State, 891 A.2d 327, 335 (Md. 2006) (describing the common
law crime of riot).




n65  Id. at 331 (citing Reeves, History of the English Law 487 (1829); William
Blackstone, Laws of England 146-48 (1769)).




n66  Id.




n67  Id.




n68  Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.705 advisory committee's cmt. (West 1963) (citing 2
Wharton's Criminal Law § 853 (1957)).




n69  Ala. Code § 13A-11-3 cmt. (2012) (explaining that "Alabama statutes are set
out in traditional common law order: unlawful assembly (former § 13-6-220), rout
(former § 13-6-221), and riot (former § 13-6-222)."); see also Minn. Stat. Ann.
§ 609.705 advisory committee's cmt. (West 1963) ("The common law recognized
three crimes: (1) unlawful assembly, (2) rout, and (3) riot."); Mont. Code Ann.
§ 45-8-103 criminal law commission cmt. ("The common-law misdemeanor, 'unlawful
assembly,' was a gathering of three or more persons with the common purpose of
committing an unlawful act. When an act was done toward carrying out this
purpose, the offense was 'rout.' The actual beginning of the perpetration of the
unlawful act became 'riot.'"); Schlamp, 891 A.2d at 331 ("Unlawful assembly,
rout, and riot covered a progression of activity.").




n70  Blackstone, supra note 65, at 146.




n71  Id.




n72  Id.




n73  See, e.g., Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.705 advisory committee's cmt. (West 1963)
("Statutes now generally govern and rout has usually been eliminated as a
separate crime"); Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-103 criminal law commission cmt.; But
see Cal. Penal Code § 406 (West 2010) California still has rout as a common law
crime.




n74  N.Y. Penal Law § 240.10 cmt. (McKinney 2012).




n75  Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.705 advisory committee's cmt. (West 1963).




n76  Id. ("Rout was an assembly's act toward putting its unlawful purpose into
effect but not yet completing it."); Ala. Code § 13A-11-3 cmt. (2012) (rout
contains "activity in furtherance of the plan which occurs between the unlawful
assembly and riot, usually the physical movement of the potential rioters.").




n77  E.g., Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.705 advisory committee's cmt.; Ala. Code §
13A-11-3 cmt.




n78  Minn. Stat. Ann.§ 609.705 advisory committee's cmt. (citing non- Minnesota
cases).




n79  William Hawkins, A Treatise of the Pleas of the Crown 515 (8th ed. 1824).




n80  Minn. Stat. Ann. § 609.705 advisory committee's cmt.




n81  See, e.g., Briscoe v. State, 240 A.2d 109, 112-13 (Md. Ct. Spec. App.
1968).




n82  See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Donoghue, 63 S.W.2d 3, 5 (Ky. App. 1933) ("[A]
riot . . . derives its indictability from the plurality of persons concerned . .
. .").




n83  Clark & Marshall, A Treatise on the Law of Crimes § 9.09 (7th ed.1967).




n84  See N.Y. Penal Law § 240.20 (McKinney 2012).




n85  N.Y. Penal Law § 240.21 (McKinney 2012).




n86  See, e.g., Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U.S. 229, 234-35 (1963)
(examining South Carolina's definition of "breach of the peace" and finding it
to be unconstitutionally broad).




n87  To my knowledge, nobody has examined the substance of state anti-riot laws
and how they differ. A 1985 American Law Report annotation compiled state cases
to examine what constitutes sufficiently violent conduct to establish the crime
of riot in state courts, but did not reach other elements of the crime, such as
intent or the number of persons involved. See generally McMahon, supra note 8.




n88  See infra Part IV(B).




n89  Commonwealth v. Donoghue, 63 S.W.2d 3, 5 (Ky. App. 1933).




n90  See, e.g., Nev. Rev. Stat. § 203.020 (2011).




n91  See, e.g., Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175 (2012).




n92  Cal. Penal Code § 404 (2012); Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-30 (2012); 720 Ill.
Comp. Stat. 5/25-1 (2012); Nev. Rev. Stat. § 203.070 (2011).




n93  See, e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012); Ark. Code Ann. §
5-71-201 (2012); Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, § 1302 (2012); Iowa Code § 723.1
(2012); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 14:329.1 (2011); Minn. Stat. § 609.71 (2012); N.H.
Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (2012); N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-288.2 (2012); Okla. Stat.
tit. 21, § 1311 (2012); 18 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. § 5501 (2012); S.D. Codified
Laws § 22-10-1 (2011); Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-301(3) (2012); Vt. Stat. Ann.
tit. 13 § 902 (2012); Va. Code Ann. § 18.2-405 (2011); Wash. Rev. Code §
9A.84.010 (2011).




n94  See, e.g., D.C. Code § 22-1322 (2012); Ind. Code Ann. § 35-45- 1-2 (2012)
(defining rioting as recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engaging in
tumultuous conduct while being a member of an "unlawful assembly," defined in §
35-45-1-1 as "an assembly of five (5) or more persons whose common object is to
commit an unlawful act, or a lawful act by unlawful means"); Kan. Stat. Ann. §
21- 6201 (2012); Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-103 (2011); N.J. Stat. Ann. § 2C:33-1
(2012); N.Y. Penal Law § 240.05 (McKinney 2012) (riot in the second degree);
N.D. Cent. Code § 12.1-25-01 (2011) (defining "riot," criminalized in § 12.1-25-
03); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 2917.03 (2011).




n95  Ala. Code § 13A-11-3 (2012); Alaska Stat. Ann. § 11.61.100 (2012); Haw.
Rev. Stat. § 711-1103 (2012); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann. tit. 17A, § 503 (2011).




n96  Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175 (2012); Mo. Rev. Stat. § 574.050 (2010).




n97  Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 269, § 1 (2012). By common law, Massachusetts requires
the presence of three or more people for a riot. See Commonwealth v. Runnels, 10
Mass. 518, 520 (1813); Commonwealth v. Porter, 67 Mass. 476, 480 (1854);
Commonwealth v. Gibney, 84 Mass. 150, 152 (1861).




n98  Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-30 (2012).




n99  Cal. Penal Code § 404(a) (2012).




n100  720 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/25-1(a) (2012).




n101  McMahon, supra note 8, § 1[a] (noting that "[s]ince relevant statutes are
included only to the extent that they are reflected in the reported cases within
the scope of this annotation, the reader is advised to consult the latest
enactments of pertinent jurisdictions.").




n102  Id. § 4[a].




n103  Id. § 4[b].




n104  Id. § 5[a].




n105  Id. § 5[b].




n106  Va. Code Ann. § 18.2-405 (2012).




n107  Mo. Rev. Stat. § 574.050 (2012).




n108  Iowa Code § 723.1 (2012).




n109  See Ala. Code § 13A-11-3(a) (2012); Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100(a) (2012);
Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a) (2012); Ind. Code § 35- 45-1-2 (2012); Mass. Gen.
Laws ch. 269, § 1 (2012); Nev. Rev. Stat. § 203.070 (2011); N.D. Cent. Code §
12.1-25-01 (2011); Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-301(3) (2012); Cohen v. State, 195 A.
532, 534 (Md. 1937).




n110  Ind. Code § 35-45-1-1 (2012) (defining "Tumultuous Conduct" as "conduct
that results in, or is likely to result in, serious bodily injury to a person or
substantial damage to property").




n111  Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175(a) (2012) ("A person is guilty of riot in the
first degree when simultaneously with two or more other persons he engages in
tumultuous and violent conduct and thereby intentionally or recklessly causes or
creates a grave risk of causing public alarm.").




n112  Cohen, 195 A. at 534.




n113  126 N.E. 838, 840 (Mass. 1920).




n114  See, e.g., 18 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. § 5501.




n115  See, e.g., id.




n116  See, e.g., Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 2917.03(A)(1)-(3).




n117  See, e.g., Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, § 1302 (2012).




n118  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012); Cal. Penal Code § 404 (2012); Kan.
Stat. Ann. § 21-6201 (2012); Minn. Stat. § 609.71 (2012); Mont. Code Ann. §
45-8-103 (2011); Okla. Stat. tit. 21, § 1311 (2012); S.D. Codified Laws §
22-10-1 (2011); Wash. Rev. Code § 9A.84.010 (2011).




n119  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903; Cal. Penal Code § 404(a); Kan. Stat. Ann.
§ 21-6201(a)(2); Okla. Stat. tit. 21, § 1311.




n120  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903.




n121  Cal. Penal Code § 404(a); Minn. Stat. § 609.71.




n122  State v. Winkels, 283 N.W. 763, 764 (Minn. 1939).




n123  See Wash. Rev. Code § 9A.84.010(1).




n124  D.C. Code § 22-1322(a) (2012); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2011); N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 14-288.2(a) (2011) (penalizing "disorderly and violent conduct").




n125  D.C. Code § 22-1322(a) (2012); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2011); N.C.
Gen. Stat. § 14-288.2(a) (2011).




n126  N.Y. Penal Law § 240.06 (2012) (a person is guilty of riot in the first
degree when he "[s]imultaneously with ten or more other persons, engages in
tumultuous and violent conduct and thereby intentionally or recklessly causes or
creates a grave risk of causing public alarm, and in the course of and as a
result of such conduct, a person other than one of the participants suffers
physical injury or substantial property damage occurs").




n127  Iowa Code § 723.1 (2012) ("A riot is three or more persons assembled
together in a violent manner, to the disturbance of others, and with any use of
unlawful force or violence by them or any of them against another person, or
causing property damage.").




n128  Va. Code Ann. § 18.2-405 (2012) ("Any unlawful use, by three or more
persons acting together, of force or violence which seriously jeopardizes the
public safety, peace or order is riot.").




n129  See McMahon, supra note 8, § 3[a].




n130  See Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100(a) (2012); D.C. Code § 22- 1322(a) (2012);
La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2011); N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14- 288.2(a) (2011); N.D.
Cent. Code § 12.1-25-01 (2011); Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17- 301(3) (2012).




n131  Ind. Code § 35-45-1-1 (2012) (defining "Tumultuous Conduct" as "conduct
that results in, or is likely to result in, serious bodily injury to a person or
substantial damage to property").




n132  Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100(a).




n133  D.C. Code § 22-1322(a); N.D. Cent. Code § 12.1-25-01; Tenn. Code Ann. §
39-17-301(3).




n134  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1; N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14- 288.2(a). Mont. Code
Ann. § 45-8-103(1) (2011) (prohibits disturbing the public peace by threatening
to commit an act of violence, where that threat presents a clear and present
danger of damage to property or injury to persons).




n135  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012) ("A person commits riot if, with
two or more other persons acting together, such person recklessly uses force or
violence or threatens to use force or violence, if such threat is accompanied by
immediate power of execution, which disturbs the public peace.").




n136  See Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S. 343, 360 (2003).




n137  Minn. Stat. § 609.71 (2012).




n138  See State v. Winkels, 283 N.W. 763, 764 (Minn. 1939).




n139  Ala. Code § 13A-11-3(a) (2012); Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71- 201(a)(1) (2012);
Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175(a) (2012); N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1(2012); N.Y.
Penal Law § 240.05 (McKinney 2012).




n140  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a)(1); N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1.




n141  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a)(1).




n142  Ala. Code § 13A-11-3(a).




n143  Campbell v. City of Birmingham, 405 So.2d 65, 67 (Ala. Crim. App. 1981).
The court noted that a lawful assembly may become an unlawful assembly due to a
concerted intention to break the peace. Id. at 68.




n144  Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175(a); N.Y. Penal Law § 240.05 ("A person is
guilty of riot in the second degree when, simultaneously with four or more other
persons, he engages in tumultuous and violent conduct and thereby intentionally
or recklessly causes or creates a grave risk of causing public alarm.").




n145  N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (2012).




n146  See State v. Albers 303 A.2d 197, 201 (N.H. 1973) (decided under prior
law).




n147  Id.




n148  See, e.g., Alaska Stat. § 11.61.100(a) (2012); Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201
(2012). See Model Penal Code §2.02(3) (2011) ("When the culpability sufficient
to establish a material element of an offense is not prescribed by law, such
element is established if a person acts purposely, knowingly or recklessly with
respect thereto.").




n149  See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012); Ala. Code § 13A-11-3(a)
(2012); Conn. Gen. Stat. § 53a-175(a); 720 Ill. Comp. Stat. 5/25- 1(a) (2012));
Ind. Code § 35-45-1-2 (2012); N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1; N.Y. Penal Law §
240.05.




n150  Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, § 1302 (2012); Haw. Rev. Stat. § 711-1103(1)
(2012); N.J. Stat. Ann. § 2C:33-1 (2011); 18 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. § 5501 (2012).




n151  Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-302(a) (2012).




n152  Wash. Rev. Code § 9A.84.010(1) (2011).




n153  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a) (2012).




n154  See, e.g., Haw. Rev. Stat. § 711-1103(1)(b); 18 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. §
5501.




n155  Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-30 (2012).




n156  S.D. Codified Laws § 22-10-1 (2012).




n157  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2011).




n158  Cohen v. State, 195 A. 532, 534 (Md. 1937).




n159  458 U.S. 886 (1982).




n160  Model Penal Code § 250.1 (2011).




n161  See, e.g., Del. Code Ann. tit. 11, § 1302 (2012); 18 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann.
§ 5501 (2012).




n162  See, e.g., Me. Rev. Stat. Ann. tit. 17A, § 503 (2011) (excluding from the
definition of riot disorderly conduct with purpose to prevent or coerce official
action).




n163  Model Penal Code § 250.2 (2011).




n164  18 U.S.C. §§ 2101, 2102 (2011).




n165  18 U.S.C. § 2101.




n166  See 18 U.S.C. § 2102.




n167  18 U.S.C. § 2102(a).




n168  Id.




n169  Id. § 2102(a)(2).




n170  Id. § 2102(a)(1)-(2).




n171  See Part VI(E), infra.




n172  Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 447 (1969).




n173  The transferability of imminence is at issue in the Federal Anti-Riot Act
cases.




n174  Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 525.040(1) (2012).




n175  Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 525.040 LRC committee's cmt. (1974).




n176  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a)(1) (2012).




n177  See N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 644:1 (2012); State v. Albers, 303 A.2d 197,
201 (N.H. 1973) (decided under prior law).




n178  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012) ("A person commits riot if, with
two or more other persons acting together, such person recklessly uses force or
violence or threatens to use force or violence, if such threat is accompanied by
immediate power of execution, which disturbs the public peace.").




n179  See State v. Urias, 553 P.2d 1230, 1232 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1976).




n180  See Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b) (2011); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.2
(2011); Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-104(1) (2009); N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14- 288.2
(2011).




n181  Kansas bans incitement to riot "under circumstances which produce a clear
and present danger of injury to persons or property or a branch of the public
peace." Kan. Stat. Ann. § 21-6201(b). The Montana legislature tried to limit the
Montana incitement statute's scope by explaining that the "act or conduct may
not include the mere oral or written advocacy of ideas or expression of belief
that does not urge the commission of an act of immediate violence." Mont. Code
Ann. § 45-8-104(1). This sentence may be adequate to make Montana's laws
constitutional if the requirement that incitement "urge the commission of an act
of immediate violence" apply to all incitement, not just "mere oral or written
advocacy of ideas or expression of belief," because a person calling for an
assembly is not merely advocating ideas or expressing a belief. See id. North
Carolina's incitement law requires that the riot have actually resulted in
property damage or personal injury, but contains no language requiring that the
inciter have intended that damage to be caused when he or she incited the riot.
See N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-288.2(e) ("Any person who willfully incites or urges
another to engage in a riot, and such inciting or urging is a contributing cause
of a riot in which there is property damage in excess of fifteen hundred dollars
($ 1,500) or serious bodily injury, shall be punished as a Class F felon."). A
North Carolina case, State v. Brooks, reads a requirement that the inciter
advocate imminent lawless action into North Carolina's incitement statute, but
again riot itself can be considered lawless action so this does not mitigate the
problem caused by defining riot as including threats. See 215 S.E.2d 111, 118
(N.C. 1975).




n182  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.2 (2011).




n183  State v. Douglas, 278 So.2d 485, 487 (La. 1973).




n184  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 329.1 (2011).




n185  Douglas v. Pitcher, 319 F. Supp. 706, 713 (E.D. La. 1970).




n186  See Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18-9-102(1); see also People v. Bridges, 620 P.2d
1, 4 (Colo. 1980); Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 525.040, LRC committee's cmt. (1974)
("'Riot' is defined as a public disturbance involving an assemblage of five (5)
or more persons which by tumultuous and violent conduct creates grave danger of
damage or injury to property or persons or substantially obstructs law
enforcement or government function."); Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201 (2012); Tenn.
Code Ann. § 39-17-304(a).




n187  Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-301(3) (2012).




n188  Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-17-304(a).




n189  See Original Fayette Cnty. Civic & Welfare League, Inc. v. Ellington, 309
F. Supp. 89, 94 (W.D. Tenn. 1970).




n190  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a)(1).




n191  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-203 (2012).




n192  See Commonwealth v. Hayes, 209 A.2d 38, 39 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1965).




n193  When police do this, it is considered entrapment. See Model Penal Code §
2.13 (2011).




n194  395 U.S. 444 (1969).




n195  Id.




n196  See Robert Post, Reconciling Theory and Doctrine in First Amendment
Jurisprudence, 88 Cal. L. Rev. 2353, 2363 (2000) (explaining that "[a]lmost from
its inception, First Amendment doctrine has been caught in the crossfire between
these two theories of freedom of speech").




n197  See Abrams v. United States, 250 U.S. 616, 630 (1919) (Holmes, J.,
dissenting); John Stuart Mill, On Liberty 32-35 (2001).




n198  Id.




n199  See Thomas I. Emerson, The System Of Freedom Of Expression 7 (1970);
Steven Shiffrin, Defamatory Non-Media Speech and First Amendment Methodology, 25
UCLA L. Rev. 915, 949 (1978).




n200  C. Edwin Baker, The Process of Change and the Liberty Theory of the First
Amendment, 55 S. Cal. L. Rev. 293, 293 (1982).




n201  But see Martin H. Redish, Advocacy of Unlawful Conduct and the First
Amendment: In Defense of Clear and Present Danger, 70 Cal. L. Rev. 1159, 1163-
65 (1982) (arguing that none of the First Amendment rationales protect advocacy
of unlawful action).




n202  Post, supra note 196, at 2363-66.




n203  Id. at 2367.




n204  Alexander Meiklejohn, Political Freedom: The Constitutional Powers Of The
People 26, 27 (1960) (emphasis omitted).




n205  Post, supra note 196, at 2368.




n206  Id. at 2369.




n207  Redish, supra note 201, at 1164.




n208  See generally C. Edwin Baker, Unreasoned Reasonableness: Mandatory Parade
Permits and Time, Place, and Manner Regulations, 78 Nw. U. L. Rev. 937 (1983).




n209  Id. at 941.




n210  Id. at 944.




n211  Meiklejohn, supra note 204, at 26.




n212  See, e.g., Terminiello v. City of Chi., 337 U.S. 1, 4 (1949) (observing
that "it is only through free debate and free exchange of ideas that government
remains responsive to the will of the people and peaceful change is effected").




n213  See De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353, 365 (1937) ("The greater the
importance of safeguarding the community from incitements to the overthrow of
our institutions by force and violence, the more imperative is the need to
preserve inviolate the constitutional rights of free speech, free press and free
assembly in order to maintain the opportunity for free political discussion, to
the end that government may be responsive to the will of the people and that
changes, if desired, may be obtained by peaceful means. Therein lies the
security of the Republic, the very foundation of constitutional government.");
see also NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co., 458 U.S. 886, 912 (1982) ("Through
speech, assembly, and petition-rather than through riot or
revolution-petitioners sought to change a social order that had consistently
treated them as second-class citizens.").




n214  See Jack M. Balkin, Digital Speech and Democratic Culture: A Theory of
Freedom of Expression for the Information Society, 79 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1 (2004).




n215  See 521 U.S. 844, 854 (1997).




n216  Baker, supra note 208, at 985.




n217  Id. at 988-89.




n218  Id. at 979.




n219  Id. at 980.




n220  Id. at 980 n.110 ("An important aspect of the right of assembly may be its
protection of the power of people who feel oppressed and ignored to impose costs
on government and society. A key democratic feature of peaceable assemblies, as
opposed to the instruments of violence, is that their capacity to cause
disruption and inconvenience is directly related to the number of supporters and
participants.").




n221  Id. at 981.




n222  See id. at 982.




n223  See generally Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S. 343 (2003).




n224  Baker goes further than I find necessary to go, at least in this paper,
and concludes that thus permits should not be required for parades. See
generally Baker, supra note 208.




n225  See, e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012) ("A person commits riot
if, with two or more other persons acting together, such person recklessly uses
force or violence or threatens to use force or violence, if such threat is
accompanied by immediate power of execution, which disturbs the public peace.").




n226  249 U.S. 47 (1919).




n227  249 U.S. 204 (1919).




n228  249 U.S. 211 (1919).




n229  Schenck, 249 U.S. at 52.




n230  See Debs, 249 U.S. at 216.




n231  250 U.S. 616 (1919).




n232  268 U.S. 652 (1925).




n233  See 274 U.S. 357 (1927).




n234  Abrams, 250 U.S. at 627-30 (Holmes, J., dissenting).




n235  Whitney, 274 U.S. at 374-77 (Brandeis, J., concurring).




n236  See, e.g., DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353 (1937); Herndon v. Lowrey, 301
U.S. 242 (1937); Bridges v. California, 314 U.S. 252 (1941).




n237  341 U.S. 494 (1951) (plurality opinion).




n238  Id. at 510.




n239  See id. at 581-91.




n240  354 U.S. 298 (1957).




n241  Id. at 320.




n242  See id. at 324-25.




n243  See generally Noto v. United States, 367 U.S. 290 (1961); Bond v. Floyd,
385 U.S. 116 (1966); Watts v. United States., 394 U.S. 705 (1969) (per curiam).




n244  395 U.S. 444, 447 (1969) (per curiam).




n245  Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 2923.13 (1919) (originally enacted as Ohio Rev.
Code. Ann. §2923.56 (repealed 1974)).




n246  Brandenburg, 395 U.S. at 456 n.3.




n247  Id. at 446.




n248  Id. at 449.




n249  Id. at 447.




n250  See Hess v. Indiana, 414 U.S. 105, 109 (1973) (per curiam) (noting that
speech cannot be regulated unless the speaker's "words were intended to produce,
and likely to produce" the outcome).




n251  Id. at 107-09.




n252  See id.




n253  Id. at 107.




n254  Id. at 108-09.




n255  Id.




n256  Redish, supra note 201, at 1176-78.




n257  Id. at 1178.




n258  See 244 F. 535, 540 (S.D.N.Y. 1917), rev'd, 246 F. 24 (2d Cir. 1917).




n259  Redish, supra note 201, at 1179.




n260  Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 447 (1969).




n261  See, e.g., Susan Benesch, Vile Crime or Inalienable Right: Defining
Incitement to Genocide, 48 Va. J. Int'l L. 485 (2008).




n262  See G. Robert Blakey & Brian J. Murray, Threats, Free Speech, and the
Jurisprudence of the Federal Criminal Law, 2002 B.Y.U. L. Rev. 829, 874 n.133
(2002).




n263  340 U.S. 315 (1951).




n264  See, e.g., Jones v. Parmley, 465 F.3d 46, 57 (2d Cir. 2006).




n265  Redish, supra note 201, at 1178.




n266  314 U.S. 252, 263 (1941).




n267  Whitney v. California, 274 U.S. 357, 377-78 (1927) (Brandeis, J.,
concurring).




n268  See Dennis v. United States, 341 U.S. 494, 542-46 (1951).




n269  Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 447 (1969).




n270  Id. at 447 n.3.




n271  354 U.S. 298 (1957).




n272  Brandenburg, 395 U.S. at 448 n.2.




n273  367 U.S. 290, 297-98 (1961).




n274  Redish, supra note 201, at 1179.




n275  Id. at 1180.




n276  See Timothy Zick, Speech and Spacial Tactics (2006).




n277  Baker, supra note 208, at 948.




n278  Id. at 982.




n279  505 U.S. 123 (1992).




n280  De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353, 365 (1937).




n281  Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S. 296, 307 (1940).




n282  Id. at 308.




n283  See, e.g., Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U.S. 569, 575 (1941); Hague v. Comm.
for Indus. Org., 307 U.S. 496 (1939); Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U.S. 104,
115 (1972); Heffron v. Int'l Soc'y for Krishna Consciousness, 452 U.S. 640, 641
(1981).




n284  338 U.S. 345, 352 (1949) ("[W]e are not called upon to decide whether a
state has power to incriminate by his mere presence an innocent member of a
group when some individual without his encouragement or concert commits an act
of violence. It will be time enough to review such a question as that when it is
asked by one who occupies such a status.").




n285  Id. at 353.




n286  Feiner v. New York, 340 U.S. 315, 317 (1951).




n287  Id.




n288  Id. at 320.




n289  Id. (citing Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S. 296, 308 (1940)).




n290  Id. at 321.




n291  Nietmoko v. Maryland, 340 U.S. 268, 289 (1951) (Frankfurter, J.,
concurring).




n292  Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U.S. 229, 230-31 (1963).




n293  Id. at 237.




n294  Id. at 236.




n295  379 U.S. 536 (1965).




n296  Id. at 540.




n297  Id. at 543.




n298  Id. at 547.




n299  Id. at 550.




n300  Id. at 551.




n301  Id. at 551-52.




n302  Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 449 (1969).




n303  Coates v. Cincinnati, 402 U.S. 611, 611 (1971).




n304  Id. at 614.




n305  Id. at 615.




n306  See generally NAACP v. Claiborne, 458 U.S. 886 (1982).




n307  Id. at 913 (citing Carey v. Brown, 447 U.S. 455, 467 (1980)).




n308  Id. at 916-18.




n309  Id. at 928.




n310  Id. at 920.




n311  485 U.S. 312, 329-34 (1988).




n312  Id. at 313.




n313  Id. at 330.




n314  Id.




n315  Id. at 331.




n316  337 U.S. 1, 3-4 (1949).




n317  Feiner v. New York, 340 U.S. 315, 317 (1951).




n318  Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U.S. 229, 236 (1963).




n319  505 U.S. 123 (1992). Note that while it might appear that Snyder v. Phelps
would have addressed these issues, that case was concerned with whether the
speech was about a matter of public concern, and defamation liability, not crowd
reaction. See generally Snyder v. Phelps, 131 S. Ct. 1207 (2011).




n320  Forsyth Cnty., 505 U.S. at 134.




n321  Id. at 134-35.




n322  See De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353, 363-65 (1937); NAACP v. Claiborne,
458 U.S. 886, 913 (1982).




n323  See Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U.S. 229, 237 (1963).




n324  See, e.g., id. at 236 ("There was no violence or threat of violence on
their part, or on the part of any member of the crowd watching them."). See also
Claiborne, 458 U.S. at 933 ("The use of speeches, marches, and threats of social
ostracism cannot provide the basis for a damages award. But violent conduct is
beyond the pale of constitutional protection.").




n325  See Claiborne, 458 U.S. at 933.




n326  Boos v. Barry, 485 U.S. 312, 322 (1988).




n327  Hustler Magazine Inc. v. Falwell, 485 U.S. 46, 556 (1988).




n328  Terminiello v. City of Chicago, 337 U.S. 1, 5934 (1949).




n329  Coates v. City of Cincinnati, 402 U.S. 611, 614 (1971).




n330  Boos, 485 U.S. at 322.




n331  Coates, 402 U.S. at 615.




n332  Boos, 485 U.S. at 332 (finding the disturbance of public peace statute in
Grayned acceptable because "[i]t is crafted for a particular context and given
that context, it is apparent that the 'prohibited quantum of disturbance' is
whether normal embassy activities have been or are about to be disrupted").




n333  See, e.g., Gooding v. Wilson, 405 U.S. 518, 526 (1972); Cox v. Louisiana,
379 U.S. 536, 551 (1965).




n334  Cox, 379 U.S. at 550 (noting that the crowd had "rumblings" and atmosphere
became "tense" because of the "mutterings" "grumbling" and "jeering" from the
white group, but "[t]here is no indication, however, that any member of the
white group threatened violence").




n335  See, e.g., Mont. Code Ann. § 45-8-104 (2009).




n336  Feiner v. New York, 340 U.S. 315, 320 (1951).




n337  Jones v. Parmley, 465 F.3d 46, 57 (2d Cir. 2006).




n338  Cannon v. City. of Denver, 998 F.2d 867, 873 (10th Cir. 1993).




n339  World Wide St. Preachers' Fellowship v. City of Owensboro, 342 F. Supp. 2d
634, 639 (W.D. Ky. 2004).




n340  Forsyth, 505 U.S. at 134.




n341  Ark. Code Ann. § 5-71-201(a)(1) (2012).




n342  Coates v. City of Cincinnati, 402 U.S. 611, 615 (1971).




n343  Terminiello v. City of Chi., 337 U.S. 1, 3 (1949).




n344  Forsyth Cnty. v. Nationalist Movement,505 U.S. 123, 134 (1992).




n345  McMahon, supra note 8, § 3[a].




n346  Boos v. Barry, 485 U.S. 312, 331 (1988).




n347  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-2903 (2012) ("A person commits riot if, with
two or more other persons acting together, such person recklessly uses force or
violence or threatens to use force or violence, if such threat is accompanied by
immediate power of execution, which disturbs the public peace.").




n348  See State v. Urias 553 P.2d 1230, 1232 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1976).




n349  Black's Law Dictionary (9th ed. 2009) (defining "assault" as the "threat
or use of force on another that causes that person to have a reasonable
apprehension of imminent harmful or offensive contact; the act of putting
another person in reasonable fear or apprehension of an immediate battery by
means of an act amounting to an attempt or threat to commit a battery").




n350  See Coates v. City of Cincinnati, 402 U.S. 611, 615 (1971).




n351  Boos v. Barry, 485 U.S. 312, 317 (1988).




n352  Id. at 331.




n353  State v. Albers 303 A.2d 197, 201 (N.H. 1973) (decided under prior law).




n354  Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 525.040(1) (2012).




n355  See, e.g., People v. Upshaw, 741 N.Y.S.2d 664 (N.Y. Crim. Ct. 2002).




n356  This analysis may change if the threat is a "true threat," under Virginia
v. Black, where the "speaker means to communicate a serious expression of an
intent to commit an act of unlawful violence to a particular individual or group
of individuals" and intends to place the victim "in fear of bodily harm or
death." 538 U.S. 343, 344 (2003).




n357  NAACP v. Claiborne, 458 U.S. 886, 928 (1982).




n358  Forsyth Cnty. v. Nationalist Movement, 505 U.S. 123, 134 (1992).




n359  Chapman v. State, 516 S.W.2d 598, 599 (Ark. 1974).




n360  Original Fayette Cnty. Civic & Welfare League, Inc. v. Ellington, 309 F.
Supp. 89, 94 (W.D. Tenn. 1970).




n361  18 U.S.C. § 2101 (2011).




n362  18 U.S.C. § 2102(b) (2011).




n363  See Hess v. Indiana, 414 U.S. 105, 108 (1973) (per curiam).




n364  Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444, 448-49 (1969).




n365  18 U.S.C. § 2101(b).




n366  18 U.S.C. § 2102(a).




n367  411 F.2d 934 (7th Cir. 1969).




n368  472 F.2d 340 (7th Cir. 1972).




n369  302 F. Supp. 560 (N.D. Cal. 1969).




n370  Carter v. United States, 417 F.2d 384, 386 (9th Cir. 1969).




n371  See United .States. v. Hoffman, 334 F. Supp. 504 (D.D.C. 1971).




n372  Foran, 411 F.2d at 938.




n373  Id.




n374  Id. at 939.




n375  In re Shead, 302 F. Supp. 560, 564 (N.D. Cal. 1969).




n376  See Carter v. United States, 417 F.2d 384, 386 (9th Cir. 1969).




n377  In re Shead, 302 F.Supp. at 565.




n378  Id.




n379  Id. at 566.




n380  18 U.S.C. § 2102(a) (2011).




n381  In re Shead, 302 F. Supp. at 566. I disagree with this analysis, because
there are two categories mentioned in subparagraph (b): (1) "[mere] advocacy of
ideas or . . . expression of belief" and (2) "advocacy of any act or acts of
violence or assertion of rightness of [violence]." 18 U.S.C. § 2102(b) (2011).
This doesn't get rid of all acts that incite a riot that are not mere advocacy
of ideas or expression of belief, such as, for example, advocacy to threat. But
this reading may be a way of making the statute constitutional.




n382  472 F.2d 340 (7th Cir. 1972).




n383  Id. at 354-55.




n384  Id. at 359.




n385  Id.




n386  Id. at 360.




n387  Id. at 355.




n388  Id. at 360.




n389  Id. at 361.




n390  Id. at 363 (reasoning that "propelling speech will include advocacy of
acts of violence and assertion of the rightness of such acts, and intended that
the challenged phrase forestall any claim by such speaker that in that context
such advocacy and assertion constitute mere advocacy of ideas or expression of
belief excluded under (1) and (2)").




n391  Id. at 362.




n392  Baker, supra note 208, at 981-82 ("There is a deeply engrained view of
collective or mass behavior as being irrational, fickle, violent, undirected,
and contagious. This view may influence the tendency in legal thought to assume
a need to restrict the range of assemblies that receive protection.
Nevertheless, historical studies consistently reject this vision of the "crowd."
Increased historical awareness implicitly supports the propriety of protecting a
broader range of assemblies. Historians apparently find that what we might call
a disruptive assembly-usually described as a "mob" or a "crowd" depending on
one's value commitments-is usually quite rational in its choice of targets for
the application of force. Also, although the assembled people occasionally
destroy property, these studies find that the crowd or mob, in stark contrast to
the authorities who respond, seldom kill or injure other people. Typically, the
crowd's use of force and violence seems restrained.").




n393  Gustave Le Bon, La Psychologie des foules (1895).




n394  See Wasik, supra note 5.




n395  Cf. David Schweingruber & Ronald T. Wohlstein, The Madding Crowd Goes to
School: Myths about Crowds in Introductory Sociology Textbooks, 33 Teaching Soc.
136, 144 (2005).




n396  See John Seabrook, Crush Point, New Yorker, Feb. 7, 2011,
http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2011/02/07/110207fa fact
seabrook?currentPage=all (citing John J. Fruin, The Causes and Prevention of
Crowd Disasters (Mar. 1993) (unpublished manuscript), available at
http://www.crowdsafe.com/).




n397  Richard W. Steele, Fear of the Mob and Faith in Government in Free Speech
Discourse, 1919-1941, 38 Am. J. Leg. Hist. 55 (1994).




n398  Baker, supra note 208. According to Pauline Maier, an historian writing
about the period, colonial Americans expressed the view that "Mobs and Tumults
never happen but thro' oppression and a scandalous Abuse of Power." People
recognized that popular uprisings, by bringing popular feelings to the attention
of public authorities, were "an evil . . . productive of good." Occurring most
often under free governments, these uprisings "could be interpreted as 'Symptoms
of a strong and healthy Constitution.'" Thus, Maier concluded that "popular
uprisings benefited from a certain presumptive acceptability that was founded in
part on colonial experience with mass action." She even quotes "the conservative
Thomas Hutchinson" as saying in 1768 that "[m]obs, a sort of them at least, are
constitutional." Id. at 980.




n399  Id.




n400  Id.




n401  Steele, supra note 397, at 56-57.




n402  Baker, supra note 208, at 981 n.112.




n403  See Roscoe Pound, Criminal Justice in America 11, 123-24 (1930).




n404  Steele, supra note 397, at 57.




n405  Robert M. Cover, The Left, The Right and the First Amendment: 1918-1928,
40 Md. L. Rev. 349, 356 (1981).




n406  261 U.S. 86, 92 (1923).




n407  Steele, supra note 397, at 57.




n408  Id. at 59-60.




n409  Zechariah Chafee Jr., Freedom of Speech, 17 New Republic 67 (1918). See
also Zechariah Chafee Jr., Freedom of Speech in War Time, 32 Harv. L. Rev. 932
(1919); Zechariah Chafee Jr., Freedom of Speech (1920).




n410  Steele, supra note 397, at 64.




n411  Id. at 65.




n412  See Comment, The Supreme Court's Attitude Toward Liberty of Contract and
Freedom of Speech, 41 Yale L. J. 262, 267 (1931).




n413  Steele, supra note 397, at 68-69.




n414  See John W. Hevener, Which Side Are You On? The Harlan County Coal Miners,
1931-39, at 150-53 (1978).




n415  Henry Schweinhaut, The Civil Liberties Section of the Department of
Justice, 1 Bill Rts. Rev. 206, 206 (1940).




n416  Steele, supra note 397, at 70.




n417  Id. at 71.




n418  Id. at 72.




n419  See Hadley Cantril, The Invasion From Mars, A Study in the Psychology of
Panic (1940).




n420  Steele, supra note 397, at 72-73.




n421  Id. at 74-75.




n422  See generally John E. Mulder, Changing Concepts of Civil Liberties, 1 Bill
Rts. Rev. 95 (1941).




n423  Steele, supra note 397, at 75.




n424  Max Lerner, Discussion, in War as a Social Institution 184, 187- 88
(1966).




n425  See Steele, supra note 397, at 76, 80.




n426  See, e.g., W. Va. Code § 61-6-7 (2012) (the Red Man's Act of 1882),
invalidated by State v. Postelwait, 239 S.E.2d 734 (W. Va. 1977); W. Va Code §
61-6-12 (2012) (defining mob as those "assembled for the unlawful purpose of "
offering violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have been
guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising correctional
or regulative powers over any person or persons by violence, and without lawful
authority"). Georgia law punishes: [A]ssembly of two or more persons, without
authority of law, for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of
one supposed by the accused to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or
for the purpose of exercising correctional or regulative powers over any person
by violence . . . . Ga. Code Ann. § 16-11-33(2) (2012).




n427  W. Va. Code § 61-6-12 (2012).




n428  Comment, Riot Legislation: A Tale of Two Eras, 68 Nw. U.L. Rev. 976, 976
(1973).




n429  Id. at 976-77.




n430  Id. at 978.




n431  See Le Bon, supra note 393; see also Henri Fournial, La Psychologie des
Foules (1892); Gabriel Tarde, Les Lois de L'imitation (1890); Gabriel Tarde, La
Logique Sociale (1895); Gabriel Tarde, L'Opinion et la Foule (1903).




n432  See Charles Mackay, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of
Crowds (1841).




n433  Festinger, L., Pepitone, A. & Newcomb, T., Some Consequences of
De-Individuation in a Group, 47 J. Abnormal & Soc. Psychol. 382 (1952).




n434  See Philip G. Zimbardo, The Human Choice: Individuation, Reason, and Order
Versus Deindividuation, Impulse, and Chaos, in 17 Neb. Symposium on Motivation
(W.T. Arnold & D. Levine eds., 1969).




n435  Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 144.




n436  See Sam Parkovnick, Contextualizing Floyd Allports's Social Psychology, 36
J. Hist. Behav. Sci. 429 (2000).




n437  See Wasik, supra note 5.




n438  See Clark McPhail, The Myth of the Madding Crowd 71 (1991).




n439  Ralph H. Turner & Lewis M. Killian, Collective Behavior 3 (3d ed. 1987).




n440  See generally Charles Tilly, From Mobilization to Revolution (1978);
Michael J. Rosenfeld, Celebration, Politics, Selective Looting and Riots: A
Micro Level Study of the Bulls Riot of 1992 in Chicago, 44 Soc. Probs. 483
(1997); Carl J. Couch, Collective Behavior: An Examination of Some Stereotypes,
15 Soc. Probs. 310 (1968).




n441  See Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 146.




n442  Id.




n443  Couch, supra note 439, at 310.




n444  McPhail, supra note 437.




n445  Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 138.




n446  Id.




n447  Id.




n448  See id.; see also Turner & Killian, supra note 438, at 13.




n449  See Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 139.




n450  Id. at 139.




n451  Id.




n452  Clifford Stott & Stephen Reicher, Crowd Action as Intergroup Process:
Introducing the Police Perspective, 28 Eur. J. Soc. Psych. 509, 516-17 (1998).




n453  See generally Patrick F. Gillham & Gary T. Marx, Complexity and Irony in
Policing and Protesting: The World Trade Organization in Seattle, 27 Soc. Just.
212 (2000).




n454  Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 139.




n455  See generally Charles Tilly, Contentious Repertoires in Great Britain,
1758-1834, 17 Soc. Sci. Hist. 253 (1993); Rosenfeld, supra note 439; Couch,
supra note 439, at 319.




n456  See, e.g., Adrian F. Aveni, The Not-so-Lonely Crowd: Friendship Groups in
Collective Behavior, 40 Sociometry 96 (1977).




n457  Id.




n458  See generally McPhail, supra note 437; Clark McPhail & David
Schweingruber, Unpacking Protest Events: A Description Bias Analysis of Media
Records with Systematic Direct Observations of Collective Action-The 1995 March
For Life in Washington D.C., in Acts of Dissent: New Developments in the Study
of Protest (1998).




n459  Schweingruber & Wohlstein, supra note 395, at 146.




n460  Id. at 147.




n461  Seabrook, supra note 395 (citing John J. Fruin, The Causes and Prevention
of Crowd Disasters (Mar. 1993) (unpublished manuscript), available at
http://www.crowdsafe.com/).




n462  Id.




n463  Id. (citing Dirk Helbing, Pedestrian, Crowd, and Evacuation Dynamics,
Encycopedia Complexity & Syss. Sci. (2010)).




n464  Baker agrees, and points out: The major scholarly impetus for the
rejection of Le Bon's views and of the psychologists' and sociologists'
disparaging treatment of the crowd or mob has resulted from historians' study of
actual crowds. The foundational work is that of George Rude. Although these
historians emphasize the need to study the behavior of crowds in their social
and historical context, they repeatedly find the crowd to be rational in its
choice of both ends and means and consistently find its behavior to be oriented
around some legitimizing norm. In the years since these ground breaking studies,
these conclusions and the rejection of Le Bon's view of the crowd have been both
affirmed and extended in a rich body of historical literature focusing on Great
Britain and the United States. Baker, supra note 208, 982 n.114 (citing a
variety of sources).




n465  See Wasik, supra note 5.




n466  See Dominic Hyde, Sorites Paradox, in Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
(1997), available at http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/sorites-paradox/.




n467  Cass R. Sunstein, Republic.com 2.0 69 (2007).




n468  Id. at 60, 61.




n469  Id. at 114 (quoting Yochai Benkler, The Wealth of Networks: How Social
Production Transforms Markets and Freedom 242 (2006)).




n470  John Horrigan, et al., The Internet and Democratic Debate, Pew I n t e r n
e t ( 2 0 0 4 ) , a v a i l a b l e a t
http://www.pewinternet.org//media/Files/Reports/2004/PIP Political Info
Report.pdf.p df.




n471  See Sunstein, supra note 467, at 71.




n472  See generally Chris Anderson, The Long Tail (2006).




n473  Cf. Sunstein, supra note 467, at 111.




n474  Wasik, supra note 5.




n475  Sunstein, supra note 467, at 83.




n476  Wasik, supra note 5 (explaining that the 1960s American riots were
localized, where at the recent Enfield riots in the United Kingdom only 60
percent of participants came from the local borough, while 40 percent commuted
in from elsewhere).




n477  See Cox v. Louisiana, 379 U.S. 536, 539 (1965).




n478  Wasik, supra note 5.




n479  See, e.g., S. Elizabeth Wilborn Malloy & Ronald J. Krotoszynski, Jr.,
Recalibrating the Cost of Harm Advocacy: Getting Beyond Brandenburg, 41 Wm. &
Mary L. Rev. 1159 (2000); O. Lee Reed, The State Is Strong but I Am Weak: Why
the "Imminent Lawless Action" Standard Should Not Apply to Targeted Speech that
Threatens Individuals with Violence, 38 Am. Bus. L. J. 177 (2000).




n480  Hess v. Indiana, 414 U.S. 105, 108 (1973).




n481  See infra Part V(D)(3).




n482  See Howard Rheingold, Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution, at ch. 8
(2002) ("The same technologies that can amplify cooperation also have the
potential to intensify surveillance.").




n483  Wasik, supra note 5 ("Today, by contrast, a crowd's power is amplified by
the fact that its members can never really get separated. A crowd that's always
connected can never really be dispersed. It's always still out there.").




n484  Molly Beutz Land, Networked Activism, 22 Harv. Hum. Rts. J. 205, 215
(2009).




n485  See Noam Cohen, In Unsettled Times, Media Can Be a Call to Action, or a
Distraction, N.Y. Times, Aug. 28, 2011,
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/29/business/media/in-times-of-unrest-social-netwo
rks- can-be-a-distraction.html.




n486  Malcolm Gladwell, Small Change: Why the Revolution Will Not Be T w e e t e
d , N e w Y o r k e r , O c t . 4 , 2 0 1 0 ,
http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2010/10/04/101004fa fact gladwell.




n487  See generally Buetz Land, supra note 484 (suggesting the benefits of
online organization for activist efforts).




n488  See Susan Benesch, Vile Crime or Inalienable Right: Defining Incitement to
Genocide, 48 Va. J. Int'l L. 485 (2008).




n489  See Reno v. ACLU, 521 U.S. 844 (1997).




n490  See Comment, Riot Legislation: A Tale of Two Eras, 68 Nw U. L. Rev. 976,
984-85 (1973).




n491  De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U.S. 353, 365 (1937).


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    August 20, 1992, Thursday, City Edition

L.A. riot coverage frustrates journalists

BYLINE: KEVIN E. WASHINGTON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: DETROIT



A number of black newspaper reporters who rushed to the flames of Los Angeles
streets during the riots are frustrated by the way the unrest was covered,
according to a national report released Wednesday.

    The report, presented at the National Association of Black Journalists
conference, said many black reporters faced the dangers of covering the four-day
uprising but then fed notes to senior white reporters who wrote the front-page
stories.

    NABJ members interviewed dozens of editors, reporters and photographers of
all colors after the riots to determine how the unrest was covered. The
interviewers focused on the experiences of black journalists.

    What they found was a number of frustrated reporters. NABJ officials also
say that large newspapers with small numbers of black, Asian and Latino
reporters and editors missed some important stories about the riots.

    Two problems seemed to dominate newsroom discussions around the country, the
survey said. The first is that most newspapers still don't have enough black
reporters. The second is that there are not enough minority newsroom managers
directing coverage.

  While white and black reporters were dispatched to Los Angeles to cover the
urban uprising, which began April 29, equality of work stopped there, the report
said.

    Too often, participants in the survey said, black reporters were chosen to
cover the riots, then asked to send information to white reporters who wrote the
main stories.

    White reporters sitting in newsrooms shaped the stories and set the tone for
coverage, said Los Angeles Times reporter Andrea Ford.

    When black reporters weren't available, white reporters hit the streets. And
yet, they too missed stories, some participants in the survey said.

    Newspapers and television stations didn't pick up on the gang truce between
the Crips and Bloods, two of the city's most notorious gangs, until the third or
fourth day after the riot, several black reporters said.

    Detroit News music critic Darrell Dawsey said he got off a plane in Los
Angeles to cover the riots and heard about the truce within 1 @ minutes. He was
black and a former city resident who didn't fear approaching young black men on
the street.

    The role of Hispanics in the riots also went underreported, the journalists
said.

    The story that Hispanic gangs ignored the truce set by African-American
gangs was largely ignored, according to the NABJ report.

    Equally upsetting to some of the journalists was the surprise with which
white colleagues greeted the riots.

    Some journalists as well as other African-Americans had warned of the riots
years ago.

    At least one multicultural effort in riot coverage seemed to work well, the
report said. The editorial page staff of the Los Angeles Times was successful in
its efforts to respond to the riots, it said.  Half of the staff members are
black, Hispanic or Asian.

    Gayle Pollard Terry, a member of the Times editorial staff, said a
Japanese-American colleague kept the editorial-page staff in touch with what was
going on in the Asian community.

    "The diversity paid off during the riots," she said.

       In a separate NABJ panel discussion on black leadership and the cause of
the riots, New York City activist and U.S. Senate candidate Al Sharpton
complained that people have warned of the riots for years.

    Worse, Sharpton said, is the acceptance by some African-Americans that moral
decay in the inner city, not economic problems, could lead to a riot.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Years later, lessons from Newark riots to be learned;
Exhibit revives painful memories from the late 1960s in hopes of explaining
tumultuous time

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1351 words


NEWARK -- Moise Abraham heard the bullets before he saw what they had done. It
was July 12, 1967, the first night of the deadly Newark riots that put a
spotlight on racial unrest in the nation's decaying urban centers. His mother
had walked down the block, promising she would soon be back.

"Then I heard something hit the parking sign. It said 'Bing,'" remembers
Abraham, then two weeks shy of his 17th birthday. "A few seconds later, my
mother is coming up the street, but I noticed she was walking with a limp, so I
ran to her and I grabbed her. ... When we got to the front porch, she
collapsed."

The next day, Rosa Lee Abraham died from a gunshot wound her son believes was
fired by a police officer, although no official determination was made.

Moise Abraham has struggled emotionally ever since. Almost as painful, Abraham
says, is the lack of acknowledgment for what the riots wrought.

"It is personal, but it is a pain that we all felt," says Abraham, 56, who
yearns for a citywide memorial service for the 26 who died in the riots. "Even
if they had done it once every 20 years, I would have appreciated that. But it's
just total silence. ... It seems that for some reason, Newark has forgotten."

Now, there is an effort to remember. In the first major exhibit documenting the
1967 Newark riots, the New Jersey Historical Society is assembling a
retrospective that is scheduled to open by next summer, the 40th anniversary of
the unrest.

Tentatively titled "What's Going On," the exhibit will use oral histories, text
and artifacts to examine the six days of rioting in Newark. It also will look at
the violence that engulfed Detroit 11 days later and the 1965 riots in Los
Angeles' Watts district.

These and other riots in scores of cities in the late 1960s -- many triggered by
incidents involving police -- focused attention on the lack of economic
opportunity in predominantly poor, black neighborhoods. A presidential
commission studying the causes concluded in 1968 that the nation was moving
toward "two societies, one black, one white, separate and unequal."

"We want to move beyond Newark and show the parallels between what happened in
those summers of the 1960s," says Max Herman, an assistant professor of
sociology at Rutgers University in New Jersey who has conducted many of the
interviews for the project. "The frustration was building for several decades."

Speeding urban decline

The exhibit will stay in Newark for nearly a year. Organizers then plan to take
it to Los Angeles and Detroit, where they will work with local museums. The
University of Baltimore also is planning a 40th anniversary exhibit on the 1968
riots in that city that followed the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.
Sociologists say such exhibits are critical in helping the nation understand the
legacy of that turbulent time.

"The late 1960s is a period we can't revisit enough," says Clement Price,
director of the Rutgers Institute on Ethnicity, Culture and the Modern
Experience. "The riots had an impact on what might be called the decline of our
cities and the rise of suburbs, and in that transformation is a racial
transformation. The riots impacted American politics. They pretty much ended the
civil rights movement. They turned white ethnics against black ethnics."

Newark has gradually rebounded in the last decade, replacing high-rise housing
projects with town homes, opening a renowned performing arts center, and this
year electing a charismatic new mayor, Cory Booker.

Yet for many outsiders, the 1967 riots indelibly defined Newark.

They were sparked by the police arrest and beating of a black cab driver,
stoking the anger many African-Americans felt about segregated housing,
joblessness and alleged police harassment. While the middle class and businesses
had been leaving the city for decades, the abandonment quickened after the riots
, making Newark a symbol of urban decline and decay.

"It crippled the city," says Ann Marie Penn, 56, who has wrestled with
depression since her 17-year-old brother was shot to death during the riots.

In Newark, as in many other riot-scarred cities, there has been a reluctance to
remember.

"All American cities have had to struggle to regain their footing after that
time, and people don't want to revisit that," says Linda Caldwell Epps,
president of the New Jersey Historical Society. "It's an unhappy part of our
history."

A marker resembling a headstone stands at the epicenter of the Newark riots
along Springfield Avenue, naming the 26 who died. But it is easy to miss. A
local group holds annual remembrances at the site, but the crowds number no more
than a few dozen.

The historical society, whose exhibit will cost up to $250,000, has struggled to
raise funding. Some law enforcement officers and activists from that era have
been reluctant to give interviews.

"There was a lot of dissension at the time, and it was not difficult to stir up
resentment against authority," says Kenneth Melchior, 90, the Newark police
inspector sent to the 4th Precinct to quell tensions the first night of the
riots.

Haunting accounts

Melchior made sure the injured cab driver was sent to the hospital, but he says
he does not believe it was a case of police brutality. "The man was
belligerent," he says. "If police officers arrive on a scene ... and they're met
with resistance, they have to overcome that resistance, and if somebody gets
injured, then immediately somebody will declare police brutality."

Nearly 80 people have shared their stories of being caught in the violence of
1967. Among them are the now-grown children whose mother was shot as she moved
them out of harm's way and the police detective's daughter whose father was
killed and whose mother later committed suicide.

Craig Wilson remembers that his father's dry goods store on Springfield Avenue
was spared during the riots. But in the end, neither the business nor his father
survived.

"He died three months later," says Wilson, 62, who believes the difficulty his
father had after the riots contributed to his fatal heart attack. "You went from
having a business to you couldn't pay the rent."

Wilson, now a dentist in neighboring Irvington, was a 23-year-old social worker.
He was on his way to see a client when rocks shattered the rear window of his
1962 Plymouth Valiant. "Nobody won, everybody lost," he says. "The people who
lived in the neighborhood, the people who worked in the neighborhood. ... It was
sort of like dropping a bomb."

Lawrence Hamm has a different perspective.

Since the 1980s, Hamm's group, The People's Organization for Progress, has been
the only group to hold an annual observance.

"The rebellion gave rise to the political movement, gave rise to the first black
mayor in Newark, the first majority black City Council," Hamm says. "The
rebellion pushed forward people's social consciousness."

Detroit, whose 1967 riots were the worst in modern U.S. history until the 1992
Los Angeles riots left 58 people dead, has had few retrospectives on those
events, says Mike Smith, director of the Walter Reuther Library at Wayne State
University in Detroit.

"Would I love to see the public become more deeply aware of the factors causing
the riot and the aftermath of it? Yes, indeed I would," Smith says. "I think if
we could reach some people, we'd have better race relations in this city."

In Baltimore, 60 students are interviewing residents for an exhibit to be titled
"'68, Riots and Rebirth." "The time is right to do it because there is enough
historical distance between the events and the current day," says Jessica
Elfenbein, associate professor of history and community studies at the
University of Baltimore.

For Abraham, though, the calendar sometimes seems stuck on July 12, 1967.

"I have a house, I have a brand new car," says Abraham, who has been in and out
of counseling since his mother's death. "On the outside it looks good, but I've
been fighting this battle for almost 40 years."

He is happy about the exhibit that will tell his mother's story.

"It's a good thing," he says. "I think it should be remembered throughout the
history books, in whatever ways are possible."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research
(Map)
PHOTOS, Color, Aaron Houston for USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, B/W, AP file photo
PHOTO, B/W, Aaron Houston for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jennifer S. Altman for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

Violence, just a click away

BYLINE: Pamela Philipose

LENGTH: 1140  words


The Muzaffarnagar riots broke out exactly a year ago. The public, notoriously
fickle, has moved on, even though thousands of those displaced by these riots
continue to live uncertain lives - some under makeshift tents, others amidst
neighbours they can no longer trust. Many questions from that disturbing
interregnum, which left 60 people dead and at least 50,000 homeless, remain
unanswered.

One particularly intriguing question that raises its head is this: did new media
- comprising the whole gamut of information and communications technology as
well as social media use - help to facilitate what US-based sociologist, Paul
Brass, terms as the "institutionalised riot system network"?

There are many who would answer this question in the negative. Political
commentator Parveen Swamy, for instance, has argued in the context of the
Muzaffarnagar riots that there was no evidence at all to suggest that "communal
violence has become worse as a consequence of the growing reach of social
media".

This piece would however posit that the Muzaffarnagar riots, despite conforming
largely to the general pattern of earlier riots, exhibited a few distinct
features that need to be underlined if we are to come any closer to fully
answering the question posed earlier. The media has had a central role in riot
creation over the years, of that there can be no doubt. According to Brass, who
has studied earlier riots, such episodes typically play out in three distinct
phases: preparation/rehearsal; activation/enactment; and
explanation/interpretation. Newspapers, he said, play a role in the first phase
by spreading 'news' that originates in "the institutionalised riot system
network". In the second phase, they become complicit in the enactment of riot
production through the attention they pay to statements of the riot's producers
and by failing to make a distinction between the precipitating incident and the
proximate cause. In the third phase, crucially, they get involved in controlling
the explanation or interpretation of the causes of the violence in a manner that
fails to isolate effectively the factors and persons most responsible for the
production of violence, and instead contribute to diffusing blame widely,
blurring the responsibility and thereby, as he puts it, "contributing to the
perpetuation of violent productions in future, as well as the order that
sustains them".

In Muzaffarnagar all these phases were in evidence, but new media added at least
three additional dimensions to the traditional scenario. One, they helped to
create a public sphere in an indeterminate rural setting. Two, they helped to
fan rumours and purvey falsehoods in real time. Three, they allowed the
innovative, even cynical, use of secondary images and unverified media content.
Coming to the first aspect, whenever riots have taken place in India's rural
hinterland, they had been driven generally by caste or ethnic polarisations, not
communal ones. According to Ashutosh Varshney's study of the casualty figures in
events of communal violence occurring between the years 1950 to 1995, only a
little over 3 per cent of such deaths were caused by rioting between Hindus and
Muslims in rural India. The Muzaffarnagar riots, in contrast, were distinctly
communal in nature although they played out in a countryside that had
historically witnessed relatively amicable relations between the dominant Jats
and local Muslims. Could the hostilities then have been fanned because the
rioters successfully created an impromptu 'town square' that encompassed
far-flung villages, by using both new and mainstream media for the dissemination
of their news and opinions?

The Muzaffarnagar riots, like similar events that pre-dated them, were fed on a
steady diet of rumour and hearsay, and this brings us to the second aspect: the
real time transmission of slanted information. Noted psychoanalyst Sudhir Kakar
has written how rumours are crucial to the building of the feeling that one's
communal identity is under threat, which usually marks violent community
responses in situations of riots. The Muzaffarnagar riots, if they were to be
unpacked, would validate this hypothesis   - with the one significant difference
that the rumour-mongering this time was also fed by people-to-people
communications technologies like SMS, Twitter and Facebook.

We see here then the familiar melding of traditional media content with that of
new media, each acting as a force multiplier for the other. Central to these
riots was the consolidation of group identities through the creation of
anxieties over sexual violence. The August 27, 2013, incident which is largely
regarded as the initial trigger for these riots remains to this day coloured by
sharply polarised interpretations. A Muslim youth of a local village was
allegedly killed by two Jats from an adjoining village during an altercation.
According to one account it was over a motorcycle accident; according to
another, it was a case of a Hindu girl being sexually harassed by a Muslim
youth. Interestingly, it was the second version - sexual harassment - that
gained salience. Each murderous attack and counterattack, launched by one
community or the other, was fuelled by slanted information, with social media
content decisively feeding the spiral of mass frenzy.

The innovative, if maleficent, use of secondary images and unverified media
content was also a distinctive feature of these riots. There was, for instance,
that graphic video purporting to show the lynching of the two "Hindu" youth by a
"Muslim" mob which had gone viral. It has now been established that this was
actually a video, available on the Internet, of an incident that had taken place
in Pakistan three years earlier in which two young men had been lynched over an
alleged robbery. Not only did influential politicians 'share' this video on
their Facebook pages, not only did CDs of it get distributed freely, images from
it were published in some local newspapers and passed off as authentic
photographs. Over the years those deeply embedded in the riots production system
have never hesitated to adopt any measures that could polarise and communalise
local communities. What, however, makes the situation radically different today
is that these same forces now have a resource that allows them to anonymously
circulate destabilising, inflammatory content at the click of a button - and in
real time. In an earlier era, they had the finite resources of the newspaper,
the pamphlet and the poster; today, they have at their command the infinite and
intermeshing potential of the mobile phone, the DVD and the Internet. The
Muzaffarnagar riots reveal that communal violence in India today has a
well-charted domain in cyberspace.

The writer, a senior journalist, is currently researching the impact of the
social media in India

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Front: Reading the riots: Blame the police: why the rioters say they took part:
Exclusive Revenge as well as opportunism cited by summer looters

BYLINE: Paul Lewis Tim Newburn Matthew Taylor James Ball

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words


Widespread anger and frustration at the way police engage with communities was a
significant factor behind the summer riots in every major city where disorder
took place, the biggest study into their causes has found.

Hundreds of interviews with people who took part in the disturbances which
spread across England in August revealed deep-seated and sometimes visceral
antipathy towards police.

In a unique collaboration, the Guardian and London School of Economics (LSE)
interviewed 270 people who rioted in London, Birmingham, Liverpool, Nottingham,
Manchester and Salford.

The project collected more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters, giving an unprecedented insight into what drove people to participate
in England's most serious bout of civil unrest in a generation. Five people died
and more than 4,000 people were arrested in the riots.

Rioters revealed that a complex mix of grievances brought them on to the
streets, but analysts appointed by the LSE identified distrust and antipathy
toward police as a key driving force. Details of the research findings, which
are also based on analysis of an exclusive database of more than 2.5m riot
-related tweets, will be unveiled in reports over the next six days. Today's
findings include:

* Many rioters conceded that their involvement in looting was simply down to
opportunism, saying that a perceived suspension of normal rules presented them
with an opportunity to acquire goods and luxury items they could not ordinarily
afford. They often described the riots as a chance to obtain "free stuff" or
sought to justify the theft.

* Despite David Cameron saying gangs were "at the heart" of the disturbances,
evidence shows they temporarily suspended hostilities. The effective four-day
truce - which many said was unprecedented - applied to towns and cities across
England. On the whole, the research found that gang members played only a
marginal role in the riots.

* Contrary to widespread speculation that rioters used social media to organise
themselves and share "viral" information, sites such as Facebook and Twitter
were not used in any significant way. However, BlackBerry phones - and the free
messaging service known as BBM - were used extensively to communicate, share
information and plan riots in advance.

* Although mainly young and male, those involved in the riots came from a
cross-section of local communities. Just under half of those interviewed in the
study were students. Of those who were not in education and were of working age,
59% were unemployed. Although half of those interviewed were black, people who
took part did not consider these "race riots".

* Rioters identified a range of political grievances, but at the heart of their
complaints was a pervasive sense of injustice. For some this was economic: the
lack of money, jobs or opportunity. For others it was more broadly social: how
they felt they were treated compared with others. Many mentioned the increase in
student tuition fees and the scrapping of the education maintenance allowance.

Although rioters expressed a mix of opinions about the disorder, many of those
involved said they felt like they were participating in explicitly anti-police
riots. They cited policing as the most significant cause of the riots, and anger
over the police shooting of Mark Duggan, which triggered initial disturbances in
Tottenham, north London, was repeatedly mentioned - even outside London.

For the research, funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Open Society
Foundations, a team of more than 60 academics, researchers and journalists spent
three months interviewing rioters and analysing their accounts.

The most common complaints related to people's everyday experience of policing,
with many expressing deep frustration at the way people in their communities
were subjected to stop and search. An independent panel set up by the government
in the aftermath of the riots identified stop and search as a possible
"motivation factor" for black and Asian rioters.

The panel concluded there was no single cause for the riots, but urged police to
improve the way stop and search is conducted. Of those interviewed in the
Reading the Riots study, 73% said they had been stopped and searched in the
previous 12 months. They were more than eight times more likely to have been
stopped and searched in the previous year than the general population in London.

The Metropolitan police's internal report on the riots, also released last week,
appeared to identify simmering tensions with police. Citing community feedback
about the riots, the report concluded: "Either the violence was spontaneous
without any degree of forethought or . . . a level of tension existed among
sections of the community that was not identified through the community
engagement."

The Met said it welcomed research that provides an insight into why the riots
occurred "so that police and society can do everything possible to prevent a
recurrence.

"We will consider this (Guardian/LSE) research alongside the detailed
operational review that we are conducting."

The force said its own research showed 66% of Londoners believed the MPS does a
good job in their area, and that stop and search "can be a highly effective and
essential tactic" against knife crime.

It added: "Stop and search will continue to be necessary but we want to ensure
that it is only used in an intelligent, professional, objective and courteous
way."

The second phase of Reading the Riots, to be completed next year, will draw on
interviews with communities, police and judges about their experience of the
disturbances and their aftermath.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                November 7, 1994

Fast forward to a riot

BYLINE: James Golden

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 627 words


A VIDEO which could become a yobs' guide on how to stage a riot is released
today with a 15 certificate by the film censors.

An angry MP called yesterday for its makers to be prosecuted for incitement.
The video, Riot Police, is a compilation of the worst riots in Britain and
around the world and shows how police try to cope with them.

There are violent scenes from Brixton, Toxteth, Handsworth, the 1990 poll tax
demonstrations and 1984 miners' strike, as well as the Los Angeles race riots of
1992.

The 47-minute film tells how to disrupt police horses and lists the riot weapons
police fear most.

Warren Hawksley, the Conservative MP for Halesowen and Stourbridge, said: 'I
cannot believe it is legal for anyone to sell something which can be construed
as inciting people to riot.

'I thought it was a criminal offence but if not the Government ought to look at
making it so.'

Mike O'Brien, Labour MP for Warwickshire North and parliamentary adviser to the
Police Federation, said: 'It would seem that the makers of this video are just
targeting the most unpleasant aspects of the human character.

'It will certainly offend the victims of violence in riots who will be appalled
by it. It seems to me to be a most scurrilous video which is just trying to cash
in on other people's misery.'

But Geoff Pearson, professor of criminology at the University of London,
defended the video as 'a factual account of the history of riots and how police
attitudes have changed'.

He added: 'All the footage is clips already seen on TV news and is not
manufactured violence like that glamorised in many drama series.'

The video, costing £10.99, is made by Labyrinth Media - which produced the
big-selling Police Stop video series, featuring real-life car chases and
crashes.

Company spokesman Gerry Easter said: 'This is an historical view of rioting,
showing nothing that would incite a riot any more than television news incites
riots.'

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: This video targets the most unpleasant aspects of the human character
Mik O'Brien, Labour MP for Warwickshire North

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

ACTIVITIES FOR THE CLASSROOM

SECTION: HEADSTART; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 234  words


Mob violence, vandalism and looting plagued parts of London and other cities

including Liverpool, Birmingham and Bristol last week.

Questions for discussion:

What sparked the riots?

Why werent the police able to quickly stop to the riots?

What happened during the riots?

What was the Prime Ministers response to the riots?

If this was happening in your community - would it matter to you? Why?

What concerns do you have about what you have seen in the newspapers or viewed
online or on TV?

What turns people into looters?

What part did social media and mobile telecommunications play in the riots?

"I have been a witness, and my photos are my testimony. The events I have
recorded should not be forgotten and must not be repeated." James Nachtwey, US
photographer and war photographer.

"Imagine a world without photography, one could only imagine." Berenice Abbott
(1898 - 1991).

Abbott was part of the straight photography movement, which stressed the
importance of photographs being unmanipulated in both subject matter and
developing processes.

PHOTO ANALYSIS

Take a critical look at one of the news photographs published here.

Answer the following questions:

Photo selected:

Study the photograph for a few minutes. Describe exactly what you see.

Use this Venn diagram to examine the similarities and differences between the
riots in Cronulla in 2005 and last week's riots in England.

2005 Cronulla riots

2011 riots in England

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

For the Record

BYLINE: Steve LeMaster, The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 976 words


Jan. 17--Marriage Licenses

Amber Faye Crace, 21, of Prestonsburg, to Johnnie Douglas Holbrook, 30, of
David.

Mickey Reynolds, 53, of Dwale, to James Francis Recktenwald, 48, of Dwale.

Rhonda Slone, 37, of Martin, to Gary Hicks, 46, of Martin.

Brittany N. Robinson, 23, of Prestonsburg, to Alex L. Wagers, 24, of
Prestonsburg.

Jessica Blake Watson, 17, of Dana, to Willie Joe Ousley, 18, of Harold.

Civil Suits Filed

Beatrice Tackett vs. Venetia Cooper; complaint.

Community Trust Bank vs. Katie Jo Gray; complaint.

Community Trust Bank vs. Jodi K. Lanning; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Stacey Wolfe; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Ernie Lee Collins; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Tonia Michelle Cox; complaint.

Tax Ease Lien Investments 1 LLC vs. Lana Chaffins; complaint.

Charges Filed

Dwayne Earl Bishop, 51, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Timothy Marsillett, 42, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Michael Nolan Slone, 25, Wayland; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jesse Keathley, 24, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jonathan Endicott, age not listed, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jarred Harvey, 30, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Jeremy Bryant, 22, Wheelwright; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

James William Miller, 24, of Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jimmy Dewayne Branham, 32, Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty
to commit criminal mischief.

Phillip Morgan Joseph, 34, of Prestonsburg; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Jonathan C. Crider, 34, Auxier; inciting a riot, first-degree complicty to
commit criminal mischief.

Benjamin Ruben Davis, 27, address not listed; inciting a riot, first-degree
complicty to commit criminal mischief.

Estill Newsome Jr., 33, McDowell; complicity to commit theft by unlawful taking.

Edward Clay, 25, Prestonsburg .; criminal trespassing.

Virgil R. Hale, 51, Pierceton, Ind.; public intoxication, use or possession of
drug paraphrenalia, possession of a controlled substance.

Inspections

McDowell Elementary, McDowell, regular inspection. Violations noted: food not
protected during storage, food not protected during preparation, plumbing not
maintained in good repair, floors not clean. Score: 96.

Allen Central High, Eastern, regular inspection. Violations noted: food contact
surfaces and/or utensils are not durable, corrosion resistant or non-absorbent,
food contact surfaces are not resistant to pitting, chipping, crazing, etc.,
warewashing machine not properly operated, outside garbage or refuse storage
area not constructed properly, garbage and refuse containers not covered as
required. Score: 95.

Betsy Layne Elementary School, Betsy Layne, regular inspection. Violations
noted: garbage and refuse containers not covered as required, garbage and refuse
containers dirty, floors not clean, floors not maintained/constructed and/or
installed properly.

Opportunities Unlimited School, Martin, regular inspection. Violations noted:
restroom walls, countertops in need of repair, floors and walls in need of
repair in gym restrooms, lighting not adequate in the girls restroom, main
building, ceiling found with leak in gym, floors and walls also in need of
repair. Score: 90.

Property Transfers

Dorenda Criss Burke to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

John Bryan Burke to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ, Inc.,
property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Louanna Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Randall Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Wanda Calhoun to Robert D. Conley, property not listed.

Betty Lou Hall Hamilton to James Michael Hamilton and Terry Hamilton, property
located at Hatcher Addition to Harold.

James A. Hamilton to James Michael Hamilton and Terry Hamilton, property located
at Hatcher Addition to Harold.

J.W. Kinzer Foundation, Inc. to the Wesley Christian School, property not
listed.

Deborah Burke Johnson to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Earl Johnson to Larry Flannery and Trena Flannery, property located and J.M. and
John Hall addition to Bevinsville.

Willis Shelley Johnson to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Opal Kinney to Connie Hinkle, property not listed.

Donna Lancaster to Brittany Johnson and Jeremy Johnson, property not listed.

Donna Lancaster to Lowell Mitchell and Tex Mitchell, property located at Big Mud
Creek at Grethel.

Denise Burke Laskowski to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus Christ,
Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Michael Roberts Laskowski to Joppa Church of Old Regular Baptist of Jesus
Christ, Inc., property located at Left Beaver Creek.

Kim Little to Arnold Johnson and Joan Johnson, property not listed.

Lee M. Little to Larry J. Flannery, property located at Wheelwright.

Robin Little to Arnold Johnson and Joan Johnson, property not listed.

Middle Creek National Battlefield Foundation, Inc. to Commonwealth of Kentucky
Department of Highways Transportation Cabinet, property not listed.

To see more of The Floyd County Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.floydcountytimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Floyd County Times,
Prestonburg, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110117-QO-For-the-Record-0117-20110117

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


                                 Copyright 2011


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Riot savours big first win over Valkyries

BYLINE: Murray McCormick, Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Murray McCormick; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 713 words


The post-game celebration by the Regina Riot on Sunday was unlike any other in
the short history of the Western Women's Canadian Football League.

The Riot defeated the Saskatoon Valkyries 15-7 before a franchise-high 535
spectators at Mosaic Stadium. The win was the first by the Riot over the
Valkyries since the women's full-contact tackle football league opened in 2011.
It was also the first loss ever for the Valkyries, who are the two-time
defending league champions and had won 12 straight regular season and playoff
games prior to Sunday's defeat.

"It means a lot,'' quarterback Aimee Kowalski said after the Riot improved its
record to 2-0 and the Valkyries fell to 1-1. "It has been three years now that
we have been going after them. Every time we've tried to get a little bit closer
to them, but now we've finally reached our goal.

"This makes it a lot more interesting and more fun to play in the league,
because you never know who the champion is going to be at the end of the
season.''

Sunday's victory was an example of the strides the Riot have taken since losing
56-6 to the host Valkyries in the first league game for both teams on May 22,
2011. The Valkyries defeated the Riot 42-2 in their next regular-season meeting
and 36-6 in the playoffs. The Riot showed signs of closing the gap in 2012, when
Regina was beaten 36-6 and 35-26 by Saskatoon in the regular season and 35-21 in
the Prairie Conference final.

"Hats off to our coaches because they put a lot of time into this game and they
have really come together,'' Kowalski said. "They understand our weaknesses and
strengths.

"In the past we were coached a lot like we were boys. Now we're being coached
like we're adults.''

The victory was even more special for Riot linebacker Shelby Moran, who marked
her 22nd birthday on Sunday with four defensive tackles. Also contributing
defensively for the Riot was Adrienne Zuck with a team-high 7 1/2 defensive
tackles and Ciara Bray with an interception and four defensive tackles.

"We've come a long way (since losing to Saskatoon in 2011) and we're more of a
cohesive team,'' Moran said. "Before, we were individuals, and now everyone
works and trains together. We're no longer girls or women trying to play
football. We are football players, and that's a huge part for us.''

The Riot earned the win without head coach Darren Fisher on the sidelines, as he
is out of the country on business.

"We missed him and we need him back badly,'' Riot quarterbacks coach Jack
Upshall said. "What (the win) really means is it's another step in the process
towards the championship. It's just one game and it's not the whole season. They
understand it and they know there will be another game against Saskatoon.''

The Valkyries seemed to take their first defeat in stride.

"It's a good thing because you can always learn more from a loss than a win,''
Saskatoon quarterback Candace Bloomquist said. "It's good for any team to
experience it and it's a great opportunity for us to learn from it. It's good
that it happened early in the season and we can still make some adjustments.''

The Riot relied on its ground game to grind out the win over the Valkyries.
Carmen Agar led the Riot with 17 carries for 126 rushing yards and a 28-yard
touchdown. Amanda Hungle had 15 carries for 49 yards and a one-yard touchdown
run. Saskatoon conceded a safety in the third quarter to account for the
remainder of the scoring.

Marci Kiselyk had a 19-yard touchdown reception for Saskatoon. Julie David was
their leading rusher with 18 carries for 84 yards.

"I'm super pumped (about) how our girls responded because they have never faced
adversity in a football game before,'' Valkyries head coach Jeff Yausie said.
"We had a chance to win in the end, but (the Riot) made more plays than we
did.''

The Riot hit the road to play the Winnipeg Nomads on Sunday and then conclude
the regular season on May 26 in Saskatoon. Fisher is expected to return for the
game against the Nomads. The playoffs are set to begin June 8 and Mosaic Stadium
will be the site of the league final on June 15.

"As long as we win the one at the end of the season, that's the one that really
matters,'' Kowalski said. "(Sunday's win) gives us the little extra belief that
we can do it again and again.''

mmccormick@leaderpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Bell, Leader-Post; Regina Riot quarterback Aimee Kowalski hands
off to Amanda Hungle during their WWCFL game against the Saskatoon Valkyries at
Mosaic Stadium on Sunday.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

Comment: We must talk to the rioters, not turn our backs on them: To seek an
explanation is not to excuse them, yet the perpetrators of the violence know
best why they acted as they did

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1033 words


Thirty years ago, at the height of the Toxteth riots of July 1981, that wise old
ex-policeman and New Statesman columnist CH Rolph wrote an article in Police
Review magazine which I cut out and kept, and then forgot about. Looking through
my bookshelves on the 1981 riots this week, I came across the freshly relevant
cutting once again.

Here's what Rolph wrote 30 summers ago: "Do you notice how every fresh outbreak
of street violence, including all the arson, criminal damage, teamwork robbery
and assault on police, is explained according to the predilections of the
explainer?" he observed. "Too many police; not enough police. Racial hatred;
hatred of racial hatred. Unemployment, lack of ethical education, the decline of
religious faith, indifferent parents."

Rolph could have been writing about the 2011 riots. Once again, most of the
politicians, commentators and public figures who have expressed a view about why
the riots took place have placed them in a well-worn, pre-existing explanatory
frame. Those who tend to blame the Tories or the street gangs or the cuts or
consumerism for most things tend - surprise, surprise - to blame the riots on
the Tories or the street gangs or the cuts or consumerism too. If you think as
Scotland's first minister, Alex Salmond, does that the world's difficulties are
the fault of the English, then you blame the English. If rap music's your
problem, then rap music's to blame. Across the board, for every outbreak of riot
, there's an instant, pre-cooked explanation.

Back in 1981, the initial public debate responded to the Brixton and Toxteth
riots on very much these lines. Margaret Thatcher blamed the riots on the
weakening of authority. Labour's Michael Foot, and most of his party, blamed
them on unemployment. Moral re-armers blamed moral decay. The education
minister, himself an ex-headteacher, blamed the undermining of headteachers. The
left blamed the Tories. The Tories blamed Ken Livingstone (some things never
change). A Daily Mail columnist blamed John McEnroe for setting a bad example at
Wimbledon. Those who actually observed the riots, on the other hand, thought
that relations between the police and the black community were at the heart of
the riots and that a more independent look was required - and Lord Scarman's
inquiry agreed.

Yesterday's emergency recall of parliament showed that the reliance on
pre-cooked explanations is alive and well. There is, though, a significant
difference in the form of things this time. Today, unlike in 1981, there is much
greater convergence around a single overarching explanation - criminality - than
there was at the time of Brixton or Toxteth, when there was a real contest about
the issues and lessons. At the centre of David Cameron's statement to MPs was
the claim that the riots were caused by "criminality, pure and simple". Ed
Miliband said much the same thing. And so, with a minority of backbench
exceptions such as Gerald Kaufman, did most other MPs.

True, both Cameron and Miliband had sections in their respective statements
about what Cameron referred to as the "deeper problems". But there was very
little attempt to dig deep to explain them. Cameron focused almost exclusively
on gang culture in this section of his statement. The riots, he came very close
to saying, were a problem of gangs. There is evidence, he claimed, that gangs
were behind the co-ordination of this week's violence and looting.

Rhetorically, Miliband ranged wider when he turned to "deeper lessons". At least
he called for the inquiry that Cameron seemed determined not to concede - though
the prime minister had been quick enough to establish one on phone hacking. But
the Labour leader was also pretty unspecific about what this inquiry ought to
look at. Miliband's assertion that simplistic solutions are not the answer may
be true. But he offered little clue about what a less simplistic solution might
actually consist of.

In some ways, this is understandable. No one should underestimate the difficulty
of explaining why some simmering street situations turn into full-on riots and
others don't. Nor why some riots peter out while others gather such incredible
force. Nor why copycat riots take place in this city rather than that one. It
may indeed be true that this week's rioting and looting is simply attributable
to criminality. Or gangs. Or anarchy. But these claims beg many other questions
that ought to be much more thoroughly examined. Why did these particular groups
of young people turn to criminality this week - and why did others who lead
comparable lives not do so? Why did the gangs that took part do so and why did
others stay on the sidelines, and how can the problems that gangs cause be
prevented?

It might be a start to do something that will not come easily to a society still
in shock and to politicians who are rightly concerned to restore order. That
something is to accept that the rioters themselves, and not just non-rioters
like you and me, may have something to tell us about the riots. Of course, they
are tainted witnesses. But if we want to understand riots we need to take more
account of who the rioters are - the Sun had an interesting though selective go
at this subject yesterday - of what they thought they were doing and of what
they actually did as well as didn't do.

To seek to explain such volcanic events as we have witnessed in the past week is
not in any way to seek to excuse them. But there are now, for example, upwards
of 1,400 arrested suspects, two thirds of them in London. That's a lot of
suspected witnesses to, and participants in, events few of us truly understand.
Even if the government continues to resist an inquiry, it should commission a
proper sociological analysis of the rioters and what they did to our country.

These are important questions, and we should not be turning our backs on them as
a society just because we are outraged and shocked by what has happened. Instead
of assuming that we know why these events have occurred, we perhaps ought to
take our outrage and shock as signs that something has been festering in our
midst for a long time that we have neither understood nor addressed at all well.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 22, 1980, Sunday, Final Edition

Profile of a Rioter: Under 30, Male, Frustrated

BYLINE: Richard Morin

SECTION: First Section; A7

LENGTH: 605 words


The typical Miami rioter is 27.8 years old, an unmarried male who quit high
school before the end of his senior year and believes America is not worth
fighting for.

He's a blue-collar worker who earns less than $10,000 a year.  The rioter is
dissatisfied with his neighborhood and his home.  He says blacks elsewhere earn
more money than he does.  He's never been arrested.

The Miami rioter is a registered voter who has cast a ballot in at least one
election during the past two years.

He believes the criminal justice system discriminates against blacks.

He's angry, bitter -- and much like the nonrioter.

This profile emerges from a survey of 444 blacks in five riot-torn areas of
Miami and surrounding Dade County conducted by The Miami Herald and the
Behavioral Science Research Institute of Coral Gables.  The Washington Post
helped support the poll.

The poll showed some differences between Miami riot participants and nonrioters.
It also disclosed ominous similarities that indicate the problems and
frustrations of the riot participants are widely felt in Dade County's troubled
black neighborhoods.

For the purposes of the study, a riot participant was identified as anyone who
said he or she was slightly, somewhat, or actively involved in the May 17-19
disturbance.  Surveys of black attitudes in Watts, Detroit and Newark --
including the Kerner Commission report in 1968 -- used the same method to define
riot participants.

The Herald poll included the opinions of 112 persons who said they participated
in the rioting.

Blacks who joined in the rioting were generally decidedly younger than
nonrioters.  Age emerged as the single controlling factor in determining riot
participation, a finding consistent with earlier riot participation studies.

While the average age of the rioter was 27.8 years, the mean age of the
nonrioter was 38.1.  The true average age of the riot participant likely is
slightly lower.  To help avoid misleading results, only persons 15 years old or
older were interviewed.

When questioned about the extent of 23 problems in the black community --
ranging from unemployment and poverty to poor schools and dirty neighborhoods --
the perceptions of riot participants varied dramatically from those of
nonrioters in only three areas.

Significantly fewer riot participants identified "parents unable to control
their children," "too much drinking" and "too much drug use" as major problems
-- differences that perhaps could best be explained by the relative youthfulness
of the riot participants.

Other differences emerged, though all were characteristic of the relative
youthfulness of the riot participants, analysis of the riot and nonriot
populations disclosed.

Rioters were more likely to say that blacks in other cities had better jobs,
higher incomes and better educations.

And they were far less likely to agree that voting is the only way that blacks
are "able to have a say." Four out of every five nonrioters agreed with that
statement.  Fewer than three out of five rioters agreed.

Slightly more than half of the rioters -- 51 percent -- said that blacks would
gain more by the riot than if the disturbance had not occurred.  Fewer than 45
percent of the nonrioters agreed, though 30 percent of that group said they
weren't sure, while only 19 percent of the rioters were undecided.

Rioters paid a price for that expected progress.  Slightly more than 18 percent
of the rioters said they or a family member lost a job because of the
disturbance.  Seven percent of the nonrioters said they or their relatives lost
a job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1980 The Washington Post


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Cong backs Rahul's remarks contrasting 1984, 2002 riots

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 28 -- Congress today fully backed Rahul Gandhi on his remarks on
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and on issues of transparency and corruption while the
opposition attacked him on his views in an interview to a TV channel.

Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said while the post- Godhra court cases had
to be transferred from Gujarat for justice, a large number of convictions did
take place in the anti-Sikh riots cases.

"Criminal law does not make a distinction between common people and the leaders
of political parties. 482 convictions took place in the 1984 riots. The
political career of a number of very senior Congress leaders was affected
(because of the riots). Apart from apology, there has been a reconciliation for
the last 20-30 years," he said.

Contrasting that with the 2002 Gujarat riots, Singhvi said that for the first
time in the country, court cases relating to the riots were transferred to
Maharashtra, which is the "clearest vote of no confidence" in the Modi
government.

"This was done to ensure an impartial, objective, fair, dependable outcome
which, it was felt, could not be had in the Modi-led Gujarat," he added.

In an interview to a television channel, Gandhi had yesterday said that while
the Gujarat government was "involved" in the 2002 riots, the Congress government
had tried to stop the anti-Sikh riots.

BJP and Akali Dal have slammed Gandhi for his remarks contrasting the Gujarat
riots with the anti-Sikh riots. While SAD leader Naresh Gujaral alleged that
Congress had shielded individuals who were involved in the "carnage" against
Sikhs, senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley has said Gandhi was "ill informed" on the
Gujarat riots.

Singhvi said, "He (Gandhi) is quite unlike a number of persons in our political
system, who aspire for big office but are habituated to speaking with a forked
tongue, who are self- centred and have illusions of infallibility."

Lauding Gandhi's "honesty of purpose, sincerity, passion and commitment to
changing the system", Singhvi said that in the interview the Congress vice
president had come out as a man steadfast in his ideas, ideals and principles.

"Gandhi has not only spoken and interacted. He willingly subjected himself to a
no-holds barred 80-minute in-depth cross examination and he has done it with
humility," Singhvi said, pointing at Gandhi's emphasis on transparency as the
standpoint of the interview.

To repeated questions about some party MPs who were named in the cases, Singhvi
said, "Political action has also taken place", although he did not name anybody.
Congress had refused Lok Sabha tickets to Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar in
2009 general elections following allegations of them having played a role in the
1984 riots.

Responding to questions about the action taken against Congress leaders who were
"involved" in the anti-Sikh riots, Singhvi said that while many had already been
penalised, the process was still on to fix responsibility.

He said that in the 2002 Gujarat riots, a minister in the Modi government, Maya
Kodnani, was convicted.

Singhvi also mentioned that former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee had
reminded Modi of his 'Rajadharma' as a Chief Minister.

Noting that that Gandhi has walked the talk on bringing openness in the system
by holding elections in Youth Congress and NSUI, Singhvi said that the BJP does
not have a comparable process. Hailing the Congress Vice President for his
"firmness, resoluteness and readiness to work".

Senior party leader Digvijay Singh, meanwhile, said that Gandhi had "stood his
ground and put his point across, unlike Modi, who had walked out" of another
television interview.

Union Minister Milind Deora also praised Gandhi for the interview.

"Refusing to get into personality slugfests, taking on core issues and focusing
on solutions earnestly, Rahul's interview was very refreshing," Deora said on
'twitter.com'.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Seven new riot suspects charged

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 433  words


Crown counsel has approved 18 charges against seven more alleged Stanley Cup
rioters.

Vancouver police made the announcement Monday at the corner of Davie and Nicola
streets in the West End, where a bus shelter is now the latest billboard in the
police campaign to have the public identify as many rioters as possible.

"This is all about driving people back to the web-site," said Insp. Les Yeo,
commanding officer of the Integrated Riot Investigation Team, asking the public
once again to identify protesters pictured at riot2011. vpd.ca. Ten of the
bright-coloured posters, proclaiming "Busted! Riot Roundup 2," are being
displayed at bus shelters across the city.

Yeo announced a series of new charges against seven individuals, only three of
whom can be named. The other four suspects - including a young woman - are young
offenders and can't be identified publicly.

Willmar Ovando-Renderos, 24, of Surrey faces charges of participating in a riot,
breaking-and-entering and disguise with intent.

Bradley Peters, 20, of Mission is charged with participating in a riot, along
with three counts of mischief.

Richard MacMillan, 26, of Vancouver faces charges of participating in a riot and
mischief.

The most serious charges faced by the young offenders involve a 17-year-old Port
Coquitlam youth, who is charged with participating in a riot, mischief and
break-and-enter.

Facing charges of participating in a riot and mischief are a 16-year-old female
from Burnaby, a 16-year-old male from Burnaby and a 15-year-old male from
Langley.

Police also announced that Emmanuel Alviar, 19, of Surrey is the second riot
suspect to plead guilty. Alviar pleaded guilty to participating in a riot and is
expected to be sentenced on May 3 in Vancouver Provincial Court.

The continuing campaign of recommending charges to Crown counsel continued
Monday, as police announced they are forwarding another 82 recommended charges
against 25 more alleged rioters.

Police said two of those individuals were allegedly involved in assaults on
Robert Mackay, a Good Samaritan who tried to stop the rioters.

Yeo said he understands the public's frustration about how long it's taking to
charge and convict alleged rioters - he feels the same way.

"I'm frustrated by how long it's taken, but that's the system we live in in
British Columbia."

To date, police have recommended 432 charges against 150 suspected rioters.

Crown counsel reviews the files before deciding whether to pursue those
recommended charges.

At this point, Crown has approved 171 criminal charges against 64 suspected
rioters.

iaustin@theprovince.com

twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Leidenfrost, PNG; Insp. Les Yeo shows off a new West End
bus-shelter poster, one of 10 across the city advertising the riot website
riot2011.vpd.ca.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                             August 2, 2015 Sunday

'Riot accused not prosecuted with Same Zeal as Yakub Memon': Justice Srikrishna

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Aug. 2 -- Amid the rising debate around following the execution of
Mumbai serial blast convict Yakub Memon, whether justice has been selective and
continues to remain elusive for those who were murdered during the '92 Mumbai
riots.

"State Didn't Prosecute Mumbai Riot Accused With Same Zeal as Yakub Memon", said
Justice BN Srikrishna.

Justice B M Srikrishna, who headed the one-man commission that inquired into the
93 Mumbai riots, said that the state had been "remiss" and had opted not to
investigate even cases where serious prima facie evidence existed.

Justice Sri krishna, whose report was especially critical of role played by Shiv
Sena and its chief Bal Thackrey in Mumbai riots, told a leading news channel
that "Those who wielded power" had shown an evident bias in not probing the riot
cases in which 900 people killed with the same energy as they had shown in
convicting those responsible for the blasts in which 257 people were killed.

The Srikrishna Commission was set up by the Maharashtra government to
investigate incidents of widespread rioting from December 6 to 10, 1992 and
January 6 to 20, 1993 and damage and loss to the city during that period. One of
the terms of reference for the commission was to see if the riots and the blasts
were connected. The riots left 900 dead.

In his inquiry report, Justice Srikrishna concluded that there was one: "One
common link between the riots of December 1992 and January 1993 and bomb blasts
of 12th March 1993 appears to be that the former appear to have been a causative
factor for the latter.

"I can only wish that there would one day be justice for 1992 riots as well,"
said, Justice SriKrishna.

"The riots happened on the watch of the Congress-NCP government. No party has
made an effort to take action on the findings of commission", said Krishna.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                      July 03, 2001 Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Quiet Riot' revives for new generation

BYLINE: Scott McLennan

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; SCOTT MCLENNAN; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 587 words



Screaming pop-metal is making the rounds again, and this time rather than having
parents complain about it, they are teaching their children the subtle
differences between Poison, Ratt and Motley Crue.

These parents being the original fans of hair metal.

Quiet Riot singer Kevin DuBrow said this is a concept he never imagined back in
the early '80s when his band was on top of the world with the hits Bang Your
Head,'' Cum on Feel The Noize'' and Mama Weer All Crazee Now.'' Back then, with
its boozed-up, lascivious image, Quiet Riot stood for all that parents love to
hate.

We're seeing the whole gamut at these concerts. There was a line of girls all
dressed like Britney Spears waiting for autographs the other night,'' DuBrow
said in a recent phone conversation.

Though out of the public eye for many years, Quiet Riot is back in action this
summer on the Poison Glam Slam Metal Jam, an '80s-metal fest with Poison,
Warrant, Quiet Riot and Enuff z'Nuff. The show comes to the Tweeter Center for
the Performing Arts in Mansfield Saturday.

Like many bands that were huge in the '80s, Quiet Riot is enjoying a bit of a
revival thanks to exposure on VH-1's addictive Behind the Music'' program, which
overly dramatizes a band's rise, fall and potential for rebirth.

Quiet Riot's rise is linked to the 1983 release of the album Metal Health,''
which has sold 10 million copies. The band formed in the late '70s with DuBrow
and guitarist Randy Rhoads, but achieved little notice beyond a couple of
records released in Japan. Rhoads left Quiet Riot to join forces with Ozzy
Osbourne in 1980 and became a revered guitar figure by the time of his death in
a 1982 plane crash.

DuBrow rebuilt Quiet Riot with guitarist Carlos Cavazo, bass player Rudy Sarzo
and drummer Frankie Banali. And while this lineup had its permutations through
the years, including a full two-year disappearance by Quiet Riot from '89 to
'91, this is the crew that once again wears the Riot mantle.

Not only is Quiet Riot back on tour, the group has a new album in stores. It's
called Guilty Pleasures,'' and while it does not have a cover of a Slade song
(once a surefire hit mechanism for the band), everything else about the CD is
true-blue Riot. The disc boasts fast, melodic guitars, piercing vocals and songs
that beg you to come on and party.

'90s bands have a more sarcastic view of '80s bands. But we still embrace that
celebration of rock 'n' roll. So it's no different than the way we looked down
on Sinatra when we first heard The Beatles growing up. As you get older you
learn there is room for more than one kind of music,'' DuBrow said.

And though the song remains the same for Quiet Riot, the lifestyle has changed
considerably. DuBrow said that Guilty Pleasures'' is the first album he's
written completely sober.

I have no regrets about the drugs and alcohol days of the '80s. I loved the
self-destructive days, not that I advocate taking drugs. But misbehaving was
part of being a rock star, and we wanted to be rock stars. Now we're into
putting on a great show,'' DuBrow said.

DuBrow said that road work has been satisfying. It would be nice, though, if
radio would again embrace this brand of pop metal.

What it takes is one band with one song to take it over the top. We all thought
that would come from Van Halen with David Lee Roth back in the group. I don't
know if it's going to be us doing it,'' DuBrow said.  Even if it doesn't blow
up, I'm still doing what I love to do.''

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; FILE PHOTO ; Quiet Riot will be at the Tweeter Center Saturday.

               Copyright 2001 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday
                                Lucknow Edition

UP govt reply in apex court contradicts Akhilesh claims

BYLINE: Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui & Ashish Tripathi TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 576 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'No Parallel Between UP,Gujarat Riots'


Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that there is
no parallel between Muzaffarnagar andGujarat riots.The government has also
denied that the communal riots were linked to the three murders in Kawal town of
Muzaffarnagar.This,however,contradicts the repeated claims of Chief Minister
Akhilesh Yadav that a fake video clip circulated by BJP MLAs had triggered the
clashes.The government's reply came in response to a PIL filed by activistNutan
Thakur,who sought CBI probe into the riots by drawing parallels to the sequence
of events with 2002 Gujarat riots.The affidavithasbeen filed by home secretary
Kamal Saxena.UP is averse to CBI probe into Muzaffarnagar riots.The petitioner
had alleged that government's failure to check events after murder of youths
escalated tension and eventually led to riots.Thoughthe goveAA rnmentin its
reply admitted that postmurder events took place,it said the petitioner's
perception was exaggerated.The volte-face by the government lends credence to
the allegations that the riots -- in which 62 persons were killed and over
60,000 displaced --were a "fixed match" between the BJP and the SP
government.The affidavit will also help BJP MLA Sangeet Som to counter the
criminal proceedings on the basis of which National Security Act was slapped on
him for uploading a fake video clip of the Kawal murders itself.The affidavit
states : "The averments regarding escalation of tension with the three deathson
27.8.2013,in thelight of certain eventshaving allegedly taken place earlier is
the petitioner's own perception which do not warrant any response." Nutan Thakur
had mentioned in the petition that a number of incidents had taken place before
the riots broke out on September 7,2013.She had contested that despite a common
link to all these incidents,the government failed to initiate action strong
enough to avert the riots.In sharp contrast to the affidavit,chief minister
AkhileshY adavhad notonly admitted that Kawal murders led to the riots but also
warned those hatching a conspiracy to destabilise the SP government by
instigating communal violence."What happened in Muzaffarnagar is a wellthought
out strategy," Akhilesh had said in the state assembly on September 19,2013."One
political party has tried to draw political mileage.They usedsocial media
totrigger a riot," he had alleged.BJP MLA Sangeet Som has been
chargedwithcirculating a fake video online that claimed to show the lynching of
two Hindu Jat boys by a group of Muslims;it was actually a video from Pakistan
that was two years old,the CM had stated.In his first post-riot visit to
Muzaffarnagar on September 15,Akhilesh Yadav had hit out
atthosewhouploadedthefake video.He said,"Spreading such false hatred inflicting
videos was anti-national.Will have to find them and prosecute them." In fact,the
state government had repeatedly claimed that action was initiated against
Sangeet Som for spreading hatred by uploading a fake video and claiming it to be
the footage of the murder of twoHindu youthsin Kawal on August 27.Regarding
Thakur's contention that several sectarian and communal clashes have occurred in
UP since SP came to power,the affidavit states "UP,being one of the largest
stares of the country,has witnessed several events related to law and order
issues" and they were "inevitably and promptly dealt with".It further states
that the petitioner has not provided details of the action taken in clashes.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

BBC to broadcast banned riots documentaries after Olympic Games

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

Corporation to screen two-part The Riots: In their own Words four weeks after
they were banned by judge in murder trial. By Josh Halliday and Paul Lewis

FULL TEXT

The BBC will broadcast its two-part series on the England riots later this month
- four weeks after the documentaries were banned by a judge presiding over a
high-profile murder trial.

The BBC was forced to cancel the original broadcast of its drama-documentary
series, The Riots: In their own Words, in July following a rare court order made
by Mr Justice Flaux.

Now the BBC has confirmed that The Riots: In their own Words will be broadcast
on 13 and 20 August, following the conclusion of the Olympic Games.

Other media organisations were prevented from reporting the ban until the end of
the trial, in which eight men were cleared of murdering three friends who were
hit by a car during last summer's riots in Birmingham.

The ban was a scheduling nightmare for BBC executives, who planned the
programmes to run just before the first anniversary of the riots on 16 and 18
July. It also meant they were unlikely to be shown for several weeks as the BBC
devoted all of its major channels to the London 2012 Olympics.

The first documentary in the series is a verbatim drama, based on extracts from
anonymous interviews with rioters conducted by the Guardian and London School of
Economics study, Reading the Riots.

The script for the film was produced by the award-winning playwright Alecky
Blythe and the rioters are played by actors.

The second film is a more conventional documentary format, with police officers
talking about their experiences policing the riots.

The BBC last month said it was disappointed with Flaux's ruling and that it
raised a critical point about the freedom of the media to report in the public
interest.

Flaux said the series was "literally littered" with material that could
potentially derail the high-profile trial in Birmingham.

Legal experts described the injunction as "excessive and misconceived".

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

Five arrested, 20 injured in China student riots - Hong Kong paper

LENGTH: 695 words


Text of report entitled: "Ten thousand to march the day after tomorrow; 5,000
police on standby; Jiangxi undergraduates riot and set campus ablaze", published
by Hong Kong newspaper Apple Daily (Ping Kuo Jih Pao) website on 27 October;
subheadings as published

Disgruntled over the downgrading of their degree, several thousand
undergraduates in Jiangxi's Nanchang have staged successive riots since last
Saturday [21 October]. They set campus facilities on fire and destroyed public
security vehicles. Residents nearby took advantage of the situation to loot. The
students are calling for 10 institutes to jointly stage a 10,000-strong march
the day after tomorrow (29 October). The authorities have mobilized 5,000 riot
police to be on standby, and the Jiangxi Armed Police Corps has received order
not to take leave.

The first riot broke out at Jiangxi's Ganjiang Vocational and Technical
Institute. More than 3,000 students were worried that the institute's university
degree is not accredited. When they did not receive any reply from the school
after a long wait, they gathered at the lecture building for a demonstration,
which developed into a riot later when the students began to smash classrooms,
offices, and school vehicles. In the early hours of 22 October, the students
dispersed after the authorities dispatched 300 public security riot police to
quell the riot.

Disgruntled over the downgrading of their degree

Then on 24 October, another riot occurred. This one, larger in scale, occurred
at Nanchang Garments College. More than 5,000 students learned that their
college's diploma is not recognized by the state as a university degree only
after watching a television programme. Demanding for an explanation from the
college, the highly agitated students even set the lecture building, the
dormitories, and vehicles on fire.

A student told this reporter that, during the riot, residents nearby seized the
opportunity to mix among the students and blatantly loot and rob. Computers
belonging to the school and the students were stolen and snatched away. Female
students were nervous, and male students armed themselves with wooden poles to
fend off looters. Later, several hundred riot police entered the campus.
However, being intent only on dispersing the students, they disregarded the
looting by residents from the neighbourhood.

In an interview with a foreign radio station, a lecturer disclosed that these
private schools conducted massive recruitment drives and claimed that the
degrees given out are equivalent to university degrees. However, the students
found out later, after making inquiries with the Ministry of Education, that
those institutes' diplomas are just secondary specialized diplomas equivalent to
diplomas from senior high schools. Only then did they realize they had been
cheated.

Five arrested and 20 injured

The Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, headquartered in Hong
Kong, yesterday cited a source saying that, in the two riots in Nanchang, at
least 20 people were injured, and five were still under arrest as of yesterday.
However, the identities of those under arrest are not known yet. It is not clear
whether they include students. The Information Centre also said that Nanchang
has 10 private schools with a total student population of more than 60,000.
Among them, more than 10,000 were ethnic minorities, including 2,000 Uighur
students from Xinjiang. Several hundred Uighur students participated in last
Thursday's riot. Students of these private schools are contacting each other and
preparing to stage a 10,000-strong mass march in Nanchang two days later, in
order to expose the flaws in China's education system. Various universities in
Jiangxi are very nervous and on a high state of alert. The schools' Internet
forums have banned all discussions about the riots.

An officer of the Jiangxi Armed Police Corps told the Information Centre that
the armed police have received order not to take leave, so as to handle possible
mass incidents of especially large scale on Sunday. Another 5,000 riot police
have also received order to be on standby.

Source: Apple Daily website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 27 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            November 16, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Auburn riot fears halt raids, police say;
CRIME

BYLINE: Dylan Welch

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 409 words


RAIDS in the volatile Sydney suburb of Auburn are being delayed because of
political policing stemming from a fear of summer riots, police say.

Several officers have told the Herald they are being forced to delay raids
looking for guns and drugs because the NSW Police Force executive is fearful of
the negative publicity that would result from a riot in the area.

In early September, officers from the Middle Eastern Organised Crime Squad
raided four houses in Auburn and a large crowd gathered to watch. Senior police
were concerned about the potential for violence and called the riot squad.

Three people were arrested for allegedly assaulting police, but officers say the
incident was far from a riot. "It was a couple of kids throwing rocks," one
said.

A raid last week on an Auburn man in which officers were looking for a handgun
and drugs was delayed at least 12 hours â[#x20ac]" leaving the man with a deadly
weapon for another night â[#x20ac]" because the riot squad and the tactical
operations unit were not available.

"Here's a bloke who's got a gun. Carries it. And we've got the warrants to take
it off him but we had to wait. We had to wait only for concern about adverse
publicity, not because of concerns for our officers' safety," one officer said.

So intense is the scrutiny, one relatively junior officer received an email
straight from the Commissioner of Police, Andrew Scipione, asking about the
raid.

They are frustrated that the riot squad is not always available â[#x20ac]" it
doesn't work Monday or Tuesday â[#x20ac]" and they are forced to delay critical
raids. "It's riot by appointment," one officer said.

But the commander of the Middle Eastern Crime Squad, Deb Wallace, said the riot
squad's unavailability was not the only reason the raid was delayed.

"The operation was delayed by a day for a variety of operation reasons, not just
the decision to involve [the public order and riot squad]," she said. "It was a
highly successful operation that went off without incident."

The raid on the Auburn man was the latest in a series to try to keep a lid on
simmering local tensions between two crime groups.

Police have expressed concern the feud between the Parramatta chapter of the
Bandidos Motorcycle Club and the street gang Notorious may erupt again.

Last summer there were several drive-by shootings in south-western and western
Sydney believed to be related to that feud. It culminated in a gun battle in
Auburn in March, with dozens of bullets hitting houses.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

State-Run Russian TV Station Airs Controversial Documentary about Pussy Riot

BYLINE: Vladimir Kozlov

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 339  words


MOSCOW - On Sept. 11, the Russian state-run television channel Rossiya aired a
documentary about Pussy Riot, containing allegations that the feminist punk
band's controversial performance was paid for by an exiled tycoon.


In the film, made by veteran reporter Arkady Mamontov, Pussy Riot members, three
of which were sentenced to two years in prison last month for their "punk
prayer" in Moscow's Christ the Savior Cathedral, were portrayed as
"blasphemers."


The documentary also featured allegations that the "punk prayer," during which
Pussy Riot members were singing "Mother Mary, drive Putin away," was
masterminded and paid for by exiled Russian tycoon Boris Berezovsky, who is
wanted by Russia's law enforcers for alleged economic crimes and was granted
asylum in Great Britain.


In a filmed interview, Aleksey Veshnyak, head of the obscure organization
Preobrazheniye, said he believes Berezovsky is behind Pussy Riot's cathedral
gig, based on a meeting the two had in London a year before.


Berezovsky denied any connection between him and Pussy Riot. "Of course, I have
nothing to do with Pussy Riot," he was quoted as saying by the Russian FM radio
station Ekho Moskvy. "Of course, I didn't discuss any "Pussy Riot project" with
[Veshnyak]. But if I had invented that as a project I would have been very
proud. This is a very creative project."


The documentary also attacked Western artists who expressed support for Pussy
Riot, alleging that they were paid to do that. It contained an interview with
American analyst William Dunkerley, who cited unnamed sources in the British
show business as saying that some producers were offered up to 100,000 euros for
statements in support of Pussy Riot.


Pussy Riot's lawyers dismissed Mamontov's allegations as "idiocy," the wire
service Interfax reported.


Meanwhile, even within the Russian Orthodox church, not everyone accepted
Mamontov's version of the Pussy Riot case. Archdeacon Andrei Kurayev sharply
criticized the film in his blog. "I'm not for Pussy Riot," he wrote. "But why
lie?"



LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2012 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                             August 31, 2012 Friday

'Free Pussy Riot' written at Russian murder scene

BYLINE: THOMAS GROVE Reuters

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 738 words


MOSCOW - Two women were found stabbed to death in a Russian apartment with the
words "Free Pussy Riot" written on the wall in what was probably blood,
investigators said on Thursday, stirring more passion over the women jailed for
a protest in a church.

A Russian Orthodox Church official said supporters of Pussy Riot now had "blood
on their conscience," the Interfax news agency reported.

A lawyer for the women, who were sentenced to two years in prison this month for
staging a "punk prayer" against Vladimir Putin in Moscow's main cathedral, said
nobody in the band or connected with it was involved in the crime.

Nikolai Polozov, said the words scrawled on the wall may have been a provocation
aimed to discredit Pussy Riot.

The bodies of a 76-year-old pensioner and her 38-year-old daughter were found on
Wednesday in their apartment in the city of Kazan, the federal Investigative
Committee said in a statement. They died from knife wounds.

"At the crime scene, on the wall of the apartment was discovered an inscription
presumably written in blood: 'Free Pussy Riot,' " said the committee, which is
Russia's top investigative body and answers to Putin.

Footage on state-run Rossiya television showed the words written in big red
capital letters on the kitchen wall. There was no apparent connection between
the victims and Pussy Riot.

Five members of the group burst into Moscow's Christ the Saviour cathedral in
February and performed a "punk prayer" asking the Virgin Mary to rid Russia of
Putin, who was then campaigning for election as president after four years as
prime minister.

The trial and sentencing of the activists has drawn sharp criticism from foreign
governments, musicians and rights groups, and was seen by Putin's foes in Russia
as politically motivated punishment for dissent.

The head of the church department for relations with the armed forces and law
enforcement agencies, Dimitry Smirnov, suggested the crime might not have
occurred if Pussy Riot had not received vocal support from Russian and Western
critics of their trial.

"This blood is on the conscience of so-called community that has supported the
participants in the act in Christ the Saviour cathedral, because as a result
people with unstable psyches have received carte-blanche," Interfax quoted
Smirnov as saying.

The Russian Orthodox Church has cast the performance as a blasphemous attack on
the country's main faith, and nationalist pro-church activists have called for
vigilantes to protect churches from desecration.

Polozov, a lawyer for the jailed performers, said the crime wasn't connected
with Pussy Riot or its supporters.

"It's horrible. In my view it is either a monstrous provocation or the act of a
sick maniac. In any case it's not connected with Pussy Riot because Pussy Riot
only supports peaceful and non-violent protests," he said.

"There have been many protests in support of Pussy Riot and they've never been
violent," said Polozov, who appealed the Pussy Riot convictions Monday.

A spokesman for the regional Investigative Committee branch in Kazan, 800
kilometres east of Moscow, said he didn't believe a supporter of Pussy Riot was
responsible.

"It was a regular robbery, a regular robbery and some degenerate wrote that.
It's doubtful that some (Pussy Riot) supporter wrote that," Andrei Sheptitsky
said by telephone.

Bloggers sympathetic to Pussy Riot said it would be ridiculous to blame the
crime on their supporters.

"Supporters of Pussy Riot are responsible for letting loose war in Syria,"
Slavik Tsener wrote with apparent sarcasm on his Twitter microblog.

Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria Alyokhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich were
convicted of hooliganism motivated by religious hatred Aug. 17.

They said the performance, which came amidst a series of opposition street
protests that were the largest of Putin's 12-year rule, was meant as criticism
of Putin's tightly controlled political system and the close ties between church
and state in Russia, which the constitution says is a secular country.

A survey released on Thursday by state-controlled All-Russian Public Opinion
Research Center showed 33 per cent of those asked found the two-year sentences
too harsh, while 31 per cent said they were appropriate.

Fifteen percent said they were too lenient and 10 per cent said the women should
not have been tried at all, according to All-Russian Public Opinion Research
Center, which interviewed 1,600 people in 46 provinces.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2012 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday

Please-all Riot Report Won't Serve Justice

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, March 8 -- The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission, which inquired into the
2013 Muzaffarnagar riots in which over 60 people were killed, has submitted a
tame report. It blames the intelligence agencies and a few local officials for
their failure. The report specifically rules out the need to take action against
a Union minister from the area, who allegedly publicised a video, and a BSP
legislator who gave an inflammatory speech. It has also not found any fault with
the state government for the manner in which it dealt with the situation or any
leaders of the ruling party. In other words, it is a please-all report couched
in legalese. Small wonder it has disappointed those who lost their kith and kin
or property.

It is not the first time that a judicial inquiry into a communal riot has failed
to fix responsibility. Even where the inquiry named the persons responsible for
the riots as in Mumbai in 2002-03, no action was taken. In fact, inquiry
commissions are appointed to deflect attention from government failures and buy
time. Be that as it may, there is no doubt that Muzaffarnagar witnessed one of
the worst riots since Independence. Let it also be mentioned, no riot is
spontaneous. It is always orchestrated by vested interests for political
purposes. Rioters are, generally speaking, a cowardly lot and can easily be
controlled by a determined police force. It is when those in power extend a
helping hand to the rioters that riots last long and large sections of people
are affected. That is exactly what happened in Muzaffarnagar too.

Whatever may be the finding of the commission, it should not affect the riot
cases which are now in various stages of investigation or hearing. Those who
organised the riots deserve to be punished. Also, speed is of essence in
criminal investigation. Any delay in hearing will encourage potential rioters
elsewhere. Let the Muzaffarnagar riots be a test case of the ability of India's
criminal justice system to get even with rioters and their instigators,
howsoever high they may be placed. If need be, to restore confidence, the
government shouldn't shy away from ordering a CBI probe.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: CLB-2: riot control training

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Office of the Marines has issued the following news release:



 Marines with Combat Logistics Battalion 2 enhanced their non-lethal tactics
skills during riot control training at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, N.C.,
Feb. 17-19.





 The focus of the training was to teach the Marines to deescalate situations
without resorting to the use of weapons that injure or kill.



 "One of the main focuses in riot control is to control the crowd and try to
deescalate a situation using non-lethal tactics," said Cpl. Tyler S. Muscat, a
riot control instructor with 2nd Law Enforcement Battalion. "This training is
important because riots are a hot topic right now both nationally and
internationally, so you never know when you're going to have to pull these
skills out of your tool box."



 The Marines were instructed on tactics with both riot shields and holding
techniques.



 "We learned different take-down and holding techniques and also learned
different riot formations," said Lance Cpl. Mackinnly J. Lewis, a landing
support specialist and riot control student with CLB-2.



 The Marines were trained on different formations used in a riot to control the
crowd and force them to respond in an advantageous way for the Marines.



 "Riot shields are used to protect the squad and gain ground on crowds through
different formations we taught such as wedge, echelon and tactical columns,"
said Muscat.



 "We used either wedge or column formations to push the crowd back and gain
ground. We used the echelon formation to move the crowd away from a point of
interest," added Lewis.



 This training was in preparation for the unit's upcoming deployment on Special
Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force-Crisis Response-Africa, where they will act
as the Evacuation Control Center team later this year.



 "There was a lot in this training I didn't know before that will help me on
this deployment and even in the future," said Lewis. "I feel like we had very
good instructors and it was easy to pick up on. It only required practice and
practice makes perfect."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: CLB-2: riot control training

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Office of the Marines has issued the following news release:



 Marines with Combat Logistics Battalion 2 enhanced their non-lethal tactics
skills during riot control training at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, N.C.,
Feb. 17-19.





 The focus of the training was to teach the Marines to deescalate situations
without resorting to the use of weapons that injure or kill.



 "One of the main focuses in riot control is to control the crowd and try to
deescalate a situation using non-lethal tactics," said Cpl. Tyler S. Muscat, a
riot control instructor with 2nd Law Enforcement Battalion. "This training is
important because riots are a hot topic right now both nationally and
internationally, so you never know when you're going to have to pull these
skills out of your tool box."



 The Marines were instructed on tactics with both riot shields and holding
techniques.



 "We learned different take-down and holding techniques and also learned
different riot formations," said Lance Cpl. Mackinnly J. Lewis, a landing
support specialist and riot control student with CLB-2.



 The Marines were trained on different formations used in a riot to control the
crowd and force them to respond in an advantageous way for the Marines.



 "Riot shields are used to protect the squad and gain ground on crowds through
different formations we taught such as wedge, echelon and tactical columns,"
said Muscat.



 "We used either wedge or column formations to push the crowd back and gain
ground. We used the echelon formation to move the crowd away from a point of
interest," added Lewis.



 This training was in preparation for the unit's upcoming deployment on Special
Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force-Crisis Response-Africa, where they will act
as the Evacuation Control Center team later this year.



 "There was a lot in this training I didn't know before that will help me on
this deployment and even in the future," said Lewis. "I feel like we had very
good instructors and it was easy to pick up on. It only required practice and
practice makes perfect."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      March 12, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

ABI Responds to Publication of Draft Riot Compensation Bill

LENGTH: 387  words


March 12 -- Following the Government's response to the Home Office's
consultation on the Reform of the Riot (Damages) Act and the publication of the
draft Riot Compensation Bill today, Mark Shepherd,

Manager of General Insurance at the ABI, comments:

"We are pleased that the Government has listened to the views expressed in the
consultation to bring an outdated Act into the modern day, and made a sensible
move forward from an arbitrary turnover cap on the type of businesses that can
claim, to a 1million per claim limit. The ABI highlighted that the previous
proposals would have left all but the smallest of firms able to claim
compensation and could have created problems for businesses taking out riot
cover as part of their property insurance.

"Although riots are rare, they can have a devastating impact on communities and
take years to recover from. This is good news for commercial lines insurers who
want to be able to help businesses have riot cover as a normal part of their
insurance."

The ABI has compared how the change from a previously proposed 2million turnover
cap to a 1 million per claim limit would have affected an event  such as the
riots that took place across England in August 2011:

* Under the revised proposals for a 1million per claim limit, we estimate that
99% of commercial property claims for material damage from the August 2011 riots
would have been fully covered by this limit.

* This compares to our estimate of only 33% of commercial property claims for
material damage during the August 2011 riots coming from businesses with a
turnover of less than 2million.

However, the ABI is still concerned about some aspects of the draft Bill:

* The draft Bill does not appear to cover loss of trade for businesses, loss of
rent for landlords, or alternative accommodation costs as a result of a riot.
This could have a serious impact on businesses or residents that have had to
cease trading or move out of their homes because of damage to their property.

* The draft Bill outlines that Police and Crime Commissioners will decide if a
disturbance constitutes a riot, however given PCCs  are essentially liable for
the cost of damage this appears to create a conflict of interest.  A more
independent determination of when a disturbance is a riot may avoid this.

Source: Association of British Insurers

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Charity helps riot victims get their lives back

BYLINE: Alex Aldridgeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 792 words

ABSTRACT

Alex Aldridge: Riot Help is a scheme that matches up those who can't afford to
pay for legal advice with City lawyers working pro bono

FULL TEXT

"Utterly shocking and wholly inexcusable," declared the court of appeal on
Tuesday as it upheld the sentences handed down to rioters. Labour peer Baron
Alli, on the other hand, reckons the difference between "a free pair of trainers
and a banker's bonus is... four years in jail for the person with the trainers".
But as the debate about the courts' response to the events of early August
rumbles on, the plight of the riots' victims continues to be largely ignored.

"What do you do if your house was burnt down or your business premises looted?
How do you continue to pay your mortgage [or] your rent?" asks LawWorks, the
legal charity, which last month set up a service to help individuals and small
businesses whose lives were turned upside down by the riots.

Conscious that the post-riot clean-up operations were short term in nature, and
concerned about the lack of longer term measures being put in place to assist
victims, LawWorks' head of projects Alison Ingram says the charity felt a duty
to get involved. "Having begun with simple casework to address the immediate
damage caused to individuals, we realised that there was ongoing demand for
assistance with more complex issues," she says.

As philosophers pondered the riots' underlying causes, Ingram and her colleagues
set about tapping up wealthy City law firms for help, asking them both for funds
to cover the cost of a full-time case worker, and a pledge to provide lawyers to
assist riot victims. Twelve firms agreed; eight declined. Assembled with
impressing speed, the result is Riot Help, a broker scheme that matches up
people and companies who can't afford to pay for legal advice with City lawyers
working pro bono.

Under the scheme, Andrew Rose, a partner in the insurance team at corporate
giant Berwin Leighton Paisner, has spent some of the last couple of weeks
assisting a disability support worker whose flat in Ealing was destroyed by a
fire started by the rioters. She found out about the LawWorks scheme through her
local council, and was extremely unhappy with the conduct of the loss adjusters
instructed by her insurance company (due to the possible legal proceedings, I
won't name the worker or the companies involved).

"Dealing with the insurance aspect of the situation has been worse than the
ordeal of having our home burnt down. Many items of our property have gone
astray or have been damaged even further, and, despite the claim, we have lost
at least £10,000," she says. Rose has used his expertise in insurance law to
help her receive the full entitlement under her policy, and is gathering
information that could form the basis of a compensation claim.

Even worse hit are those whose insurance policies didn't cover the full extent
of the losses they incurred during the riots. This nightmare scenario applies to
Sohail Sadiqi, the owner of West London Cars in Southall, which had five cars
stolen and its property burgled on the night of 9 August. Sadiqi would have had
recourse under the Riot (Damages) Act, a Victorian piece of legislation dating
back to 1886, which compels the police to pay some compensation to uninsured
riot victims. But having initially assumed he was covered by his private
insurance policy, Sadiqi missed the deadline for making a claim under the act by
two days. The task facing his LawWorks-assigned adviser, Matthew Yeowart, a
trainee at the City's most profitable law firm Slaughter and May, is to figure
out a way to get round this.

Maeve O'Sullivan, who began work as Riot Help's caseworker last month, says the
indications are that the government won't make allowances for the potentially
large number of people in Sadiqi's position. "Although the government initially
moved quickly, extending the limitation period for making claims under the Riot
(Damages) Act from 14 to 42 days, it doesn't seem to have considered the
potentially common scenario of riot victims seeking compensation under the act
having had their claims unexpectedly rejected by insurance companies," she says.

O'Sullivan's contract is for a fixed term of one year. But some of the more
complex cases brought by riot victims could take longer to resolve. A few could
even still be dragging on after many of the convicted rioters have been released
from jail. When I spoke with Sadiqi, I asked him how he felt about this. "It's
frustrating, but that doesn't mean the long sentences will help," he responded.
"What they need to do instead is talk to them. Sending people to prison
ultimately costs the tax payer. So it's a double loss."

Alex Aldridge is a freelance journalist who writes about law and education

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Croydon Guardian

                             August 8, 2016 Monday

Croydon's riots five years on: 'It could happen again,' warn victims

BYLINE: Daniel O'Mahony

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1123 words


Too little has been done to prevent a repeat of the 2011 riots, it was claimed
this week, as the borough reflected on the fifth anniversary of one of Croydon's
darkest nights.

Failure to address rifts in a "generation that is disconnected from their
society" meant the devastating disorder could happen again, experts, politicians
and victims warned.

The debate over the root cause of the August 8 riots continues to this day, with
austerity politics, tension between youths and the police, and mindless
criminality all blamed in certain quarters.

Some of those affected five years ago this week voiced fears that a failure to
understand or address what sparked the disorder could fuel a repeat of the
unrest.

"I think there is a generation that is disconnected from their society," said
Bushra Ahmed, whose launderette shop in London Road, West Croydon, was burned to
the ground by rioters in 2011.

RELATED: Croydon's riots five years on: The story of the night the streets
burned

"They can't get a job, what's their future? That's even more so now than it ever
was.

"The area has got nicer - but riots happen in nice areas. Clapham is a nice
area, but it didn't stop them hitting it."

Ms Ahmed, despite losing her business in the riots, suggested that the severe
sentences for some of those involved-one man was jailed for six months for
stealing bottled water worth £3.50-had failed to address the root causes.

She said: "I don't excuse anyone, my life was turned upside down. It was the
worst time of my life. But you can be in a good place and still be affected by
society.

"It's absolutely baffling to me that we spend more keeping one person in prison
than it would cost to send them to Eton."

Bushra Ahmed in London Road this week

A leading academic who extensively researched 2011 riots this week also warned
many of the underlying causes of the disorder have since worsened.

Tim Newburn, professor of criminology at the London School of Economics, said
many rioters were drawn from the poorest communities, felt they had limited
opportunities and blamed politicians who they saw as behaving with impunity for
their lack of chances in life.

He told the Croydon Guardian: "On the one hand anyone who predicts riots is
pretty foolish. They're infrequent events, and it takes a lot to spark a riot.

"But if you think in more general terms about the broad social conditions that
prevailed in 2011... in many ways I think they are worse."

These worsening conditions included a rise in child and working-age poverty
since 2011, as well as cutbacks in services such as youth provision due to
Government austerity, Professor Newburn said.

Since the riots, Croydon has followed the national trend and seen a drop in
unemployment. But the percentage of people earning less than the London Living
Wage in the borough rose from 23.1 per cent in 2011 to 28 per cent in 2014,
while the number of children living in low-income families and people becoming
homeless also increased.

Professor Newburn warned anecdotal evidence from around the country suggested
areas such as Croydon should not rely on "inward investment" and gentrification
to turn its fortunes around.

He said: "There's a lot of money sloshing around in some places, but there's a
real concern the changes are, a) superficial, and b) what they're really doing
is funnelling money to people who already have money."

Steve Reed, Labour MP for Croydon North, claimed the disappearance of police
front counters undermined promises to protect the borough.

He said: "The Government really let Croydon down after the riots. [Former Mayor
of London] Boris Johnson and David Cameron promised to keep Croydon safe, but
then let every single police station in my constituency shut down."

The MP also said the number of police officers now patrolling the borough's
streets had "only just" returned to pre-riots levels-levels that had meant there
was an "inability of police to keep the area safe".

A report into policing in Croydon on the night of the 2011 riots found that all
of the borough's riot police had been deployed elsewhere around the city to deal
with other flashpoints.

Mr Reed cited a lack of positive activities for young people, failure to
intervene early enough to help troubled families, and levels of black male youth
unemployment, as other persistent problems in the borough.

Looters breaking into a phone shop in Norbury during the riots

His Conservative counterpart, Gavin Barwell, said that in the aftermath of the
2011 riots there "were rather silly attempts by both the left and the right
immediately afterwards to say what caused it", dominated by polarised
discussions about Government cuts or "one-parent families" and "feral children".

He rejected the notion that the riots had been a reaction to austerity politics,
pointing to data that showed many of the rioters were repeat offenders.

RELATED: Croydon's riots five years on: Family of unsolved murder victim Trevor
Ellis beg public to break down 'wall of silence'

But he added: "I do think there was a general feeling of alienation among young
people. And that's a different thing to austerity.

"That has long and distant roots. People would say to me, 'I see people with
this stuff and I've got no chance of ever getting it.' And people talk about
their experiences of the police."

While saying he felt "much more optimistic" about the state of Croydon, given
the levels of investment in the borough, he warned it was vital to ensure areas
such as London Road were not left behind as the town centre benefited from
numerous housing developments and the much-anticipated Westfield shopping
centre.

And he added: "I don't think any politician could say to you it [the riots]
could never happen again.

"You never know how the world will change. History tells us these things can
happen."

Maurice Reeves looking at an old photo of his House of Reeves store that was
destroyed in the riots

Croydon Council leader Tony Newman said the capital needed to be wary of the
possibility of future unrest, but insisted Croydon had "changed dramatically".

He added: "You never say never but you would hope that with the significant
change we have seen and the genuine shock and horror that so many people had
that it would be a lot harder for it to happen again. I think there are signs of
a different Croydon emerging."

But Maurice Reeves, who watched his House of Reeves furniture store burn to the
ground live on television during the riots, admitted he still feared another
outbreak of unrest similar to 2011.

"It's there. It only needs a match to the tinder, and it could go off again," he
said.

"You would [think that], if you had your business destroyed in front of you."

Got a story? Call the newsdesk on 020 8722 6388 or email
daniel.omahony@newsdesk.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                              July 15, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pussy Riot comes to Kingston

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131  words


"Anybody can be Pussy Riot." - Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina.

A unique piece of theatre, Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot, hits the stage in Kingston
as part of the Storefront Festival.

Director Rebecca Benson, who also performs in the show, along with actor Tracey
Guptill, described the show as performance for anyone who has a passion for
politics and activism.

"We've been asked where we see patriarchy in Kingston," said Benson. "But where
don't you see it? Through working on the show I have been extraordinarily
challenged, and recognized how many factors of my life embody patriarchy."

Benson said that Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot follows the format of a talk show.

"Usually a talk show is about current events, and there's a celebrity," she
said. "We're doing this in the context of activism. It's very exciting because
we're subverting and playing with the preconception of what a talk show is. I
remember reading somewhere that an artist creates what they want to see. I'd
love to see a talk show about feminism and different kinds of heroes in my own
community, while creating an avenue for others."

Guptill added that the struggle of feminism is connected to all other struggles.

"I was personally pulled in [to Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot] because I have a
history of activism. I did a Masters in the Environmental Studies Department at
Queen's. Young activists struggle in a world with so many problems, and what do
you do, where do you start? This piece brought me back into action and
questioning do I have to be involved with certain organizations or is theatre
enough? What does my activism look like?"

The title for this play came from Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina,
members of the band Pussy Riot, who were imprisoned in Russia.

Pussy Riot, a Russian feminist punk band, opposed the tactics of President
Vladimir Putin, whom they consider a dictator. Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill
I openly supported Putin in his 2012 re-election campaign. Pussy Riot challenged
the close link between the Putin government and the Russian Orthodox Church, and
Pussy Riot staged a guerrilla-style performance in Moscow's Cathedral of Christ
the Savior.

The performance was recorded, and within 24 hours the band released the music
video Punk Prayer-Mother of God, Chase Putin Away. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria
Alyokhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich were arrested. Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina
ended up sentenced to two years of prison time and served 21 months.

Like any political movement, internal polarized views can wreak havoc. After
their release from prison, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina accepted
an invitation from Madonna to come up onto a Brooklyn stage during an Amnesty
International concert. Other members of the Pussy Riot movement, upset with the
pair, published an open letter stating that Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina were not
members of Pussy Riot.

Time Magazine (February 7, 2014) printed the letter and a response from
Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina.

The public letter was typical of the problematic nature of anyone who holds
rigid fundamentalist views in any movement. It noted that Alyokhina and
Tolokonnikova had strayed from the "ideals of our group - feminism, separatist
resistance, fight against authoritarianism and personality cult."

The sore point: Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova had appeared with a well-known
celebrity (Madonna) during a concert, entry to which had required payment.

Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina's reaction to this was brilliant:

"When we were jailed, Pussy Riot immediately became very popular and widely
known, and it turned from just a group to essentially an international movement.
Anybody can be Pussy Riot, you just need to put on a mask and stage an active
protest of something in your particular country, wherever that may be, that you
consider unjust. And we're not here as the leaders of Pussy Riot or determining
what Pussy Riot is and what it does or what it says. We are just two individuals
that spent two years in jail for taking part in a Pussy Riot protest action."

A key comment from that response became the inspiration and the catalyst for the
play, now featured in Kingston's Storefront Festival: Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot.

As Benson and Guptill prove, anybody can (be a member of Pussy Riot).

In its early days, the original band Pussy Riot reacted against the concept of
the personality cult, rampant in the West. Thus, band members wore balaclavas to
eliminate a focus on any single personality.

Benson said that Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot is about bringing people together in
a space where people can speak and learn about the kind of activism that goes on
in Kingston.

"We are so bombarded with things we want to change that we can fall into
paralysis," said Benson.

"We have invited feminist activists and performers to connect and come and have
conversations," said Guptill. "We'll be interviewing different members of the
activist feminist community every night. We'll have entertainment acts to go
along with the variety show format."

When describing what people will get out of the show, Benson said it's an issue
she's been dealing with.

"There's an inspiration to discomfort," she said. "To be faced with the
discomfort that makes you make a choice about whether to do something or to face
yourself with your urge to fall into denial. That's where creating a meeting
place comes in."

Benson and Guptill said they are pleased that everyone they have approached
about the show has wanted to be involved in some way.

"Pelt, a feminist punk band in Kingston had taken a hiatus," said Benson. "They
are reuniting for this show. That was a huge confidence boost to us."

At each performance of Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot, a different activist will be
interviewed, including a feminist lawyer, poverty advocate, an indigenous
storyteller, and several community activists.

There will also be a varied collection of performers participating at each show.
These will include people like Sarah Campbell, actor Anna Sudac and dancer Kala
S)raphin. And, of course, Pelt will perform.

"There is a sense of punk about this show," said Guptill.

"The Storefront Festival, like any fringe event, should be about risk," said
Benson. "This is a great opportunity to take a big risk."

Thanks to the Storefront Festival, part of the 2016 Kick & Push Festival, you'll
see Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot on stage at 226 Queen Street (the former
Blockbuster location) on July 15 (9:30 p.m.), July 16 (1:30 p.m.), July 19 (9:30
p.m.), July 20 (7 p.m.), July 21 (1:30 p.m.) and July 22 (7 p.m.). Tickets are
available through the Grand Theatre Box Office or online at kingstongrand.ca.

Production: RAFT Productions and anARC Theatre.

Creative Team: Rebecca Benson, Tracey Guptill, Moira Demorest and PELT.

Mark Bergin on Twitter @markaidanbergin.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2016
                              All Rights Reserved


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Kingston Heritage

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Pussy Riot comes to Kingston

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131  words


"Anybody can be Pussy Riot." - Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina.

A unique piece of theatre, Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot, hits the stage in Kingston
as part of the Storefront Festival.

Director Rebecca Benson, who also performs in the show, along with actor Tracey
Guptill, described the show as performance for anyone who has a passion for
politics and activism.

"We've been asked where we see patriarchy in Kingston," said Benson. "But where
don't you see it? Through working on the show I have been extraordinarily
challenged, and recognized how many factors of my life embody patriarchy."

Benson said that Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot follows the format of a talk show.

"Usually a talk show is about current events, and there's a celebrity," she
said. "We're doing this in the context of activism. It's very exciting because
we're subverting and playing with the preconception of what a talk show is. I
remember reading somewhere that an artist creates what they want to see. I'd
love to see a talk show about feminism and different kinds of heroes in my own
community, while creating an avenue for others."

Guptill added that the struggle of feminism is connected to all other struggles.

"I was personally pulled in [to Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot] because I have a
history of activism. I did a Masters in the Environmental Studies Department at
Queen's. Young activists struggle in a world with so many problems, and what do
you do, where do you start? This piece brought me back into action and
questioning do I have to be involved with certain organizations or is theatre
enough? What does my activism look like?"

The title for this play came from Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina,
members of the band Pussy Riot, who were imprisoned in Russia.

Pussy Riot, a Russian feminist punk band, opposed the tactics of President
Vladimir Putin, whom they consider a dictator. Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill
I openly supported Putin in his 2012 re-election campaign. Pussy Riot challenged
the close link between the Putin government and the Russian Orthodox Church, and
Pussy Riot staged a guerrilla-style performance in Moscow's Cathedral of Christ
the Savior.

The performance was recorded, and within 24 hours the band released the music
video Punk Prayer-Mother of God, Chase Putin Away. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria
Alyokhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich were arrested. Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina
ended up sentenced to two years of prison time and served 21 months.

Like any political movement, internal polarized views can wreak havoc. After
their release from prison, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina accepted
an invitation from Madonna to come up onto a Brooklyn stage during an Amnesty
International concert. Other members of the Pussy Riot movement, upset with the
pair, published an open letter stating that Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina were not
members of Pussy Riot.

Time Magazine (February 7, 2014) printed the letter and a response from
Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina.

The public letter was typical of the problematic nature of anyone who holds
rigid fundamentalist views in any movement. It noted that Alyokhina and
Tolokonnikova had strayed from the "ideals of our group - feminism, separatist
resistance, fight against authoritarianism and personality cult."

The sore point: Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova had appeared with a well-known
celebrity (Madonna) during a concert, entry to which had required payment.

Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina's reaction to this was brilliant:

"When we were jailed, Pussy Riot immediately became very popular and widely
known, and it turned from just a group to essentially an international movement.
Anybody can be Pussy Riot, you just need to put on a mask and stage an active
protest of something in your particular country, wherever that may be, that you
consider unjust. And we're not here as the leaders of Pussy Riot or determining
what Pussy Riot is and what it does or what it says. We are just two individuals
that spent two years in jail for taking part in a Pussy Riot protest action."

A key comment from that response became the inspiration and the catalyst for the
play, now featured in Kingston's Storefront Festival: Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot.

As Benson and Guptill prove, anybody can (be a member of Pussy Riot).

In its early days, the original band Pussy Riot reacted against the concept of
the personality cult, rampant in the West. Thus, band members wore balaclavas to
eliminate a focus on any single personality.

Benson said that Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot is about bringing people together in
a space where people can speak and learn about the kind of activism that goes on
in Kingston.

"We are so bombarded with things we want to change that we can fall into
paralysis," said Benson.

"We have invited feminist activists and performers to connect and come and have
conversations," said Guptill. "We'll be interviewing different members of the
activist feminist community every night. We'll have entertainment acts to go
along with the variety show format."

When describing what people will get out of the show, Benson said it's an issue
she's been dealing with.

"There's an inspiration to discomfort," she said. "To be faced with the
discomfort that makes you make a choice about whether to do something or to face
yourself with your urge to fall into denial. That's where creating a meeting
place comes in."

Benson and Guptill said they are pleased that everyone they have approached
about the show has wanted to be involved in some way.

"Pelt, a feminist punk band in Kingston had taken a hiatus," said Benson. "They
are reuniting for this show. That was a huge confidence boost to us."

At each performance of Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot, a different activist will be
interviewed, including a feminist lawyer, poverty advocate, an indigenous
storyteller, and several community activists.

There will also be a varied collection of performers participating at each show.
These will include people like Sarah Campbell, actor Anna Sudac and dancer Kala
S)raphin. And, of course, Pelt will perform.

"There is a sense of punk about this show," said Guptill.

"The Storefront Festival, like any fringe event, should be about risk," said
Benson. "This is a great opportunity to take a big risk."

Thanks to the Storefront Festival, part of the 2016 Kick & Push Festival, you'll
see Anybody Can Be Pussy Riot on stage at 226 Queen Street (the former
Blockbuster location) on July 15 (9:30 p.m.), July 16 (1:30 p.m.), July 19 (9:30
p.m.), July 20 (7 p.m.), July 21 (1:30 p.m.) and July 22 (7 p.m.). Tickets are
available through the Grand Theatre Box Office or online at kingstongrand.ca.

Production: RAFT Productions and anARC Theatre.

Creative Team: Rebecca Benson, Tracey Guptill, Moira Demorest and PELT.

Mark Bergin on Twitter @markaidanbergin.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2016
                              All Rights Reserved


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 26, 2015 Monday

Azam cause of all riots in UP, rioters will go jail if BJP comes to power:
Sangeet Som

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 310 words


MEERUT: BJP MLA and Muzaffarnagar riots accused Sangeet Som on Sunday addressed
an election meeting in Mahalka village of Meerut district. The Sardhana MLA
alleged senior SP leader and state cabinet minister Azam Khan was the "cause of
all riots" in Uttar Pradesh. He also promised that "all riot-mongers would go to
jail" if his party came to power in the state in 2017.

Som, who was campaigning for a BJP-backed candidate in the district panchayat
polls, toldTOI, "Ever since the Samajwadi Party government has assumed charge of
the state, there have been over 400 communal riots in the state. Look at what
happened in Kannauj. Will they blame these clashes on me and my party as well?
Even the local MP (Dimple Yadav) is from their party. What is the reason behind
all these riots? The reason is Azam Khan."

READ ALSO:

Taking on the state government, Som said BJP would ensure "riot-mongers" go to
jail if they come to power in the state in 2017. "The state government has
consistently been shielding politicians that fan riots and spread hatred across
the state. Instances of riots have become a weekly affair in UP now. Why is the
state government not admitting that it has failed to do its duty of maintaining
law and order in the state? If the BJP comes to power in the state after the
assembly elections of 2017, we will ensure that such people pay for what they
have done. We will send them to jail and maintain law and order," he promised.

READ ALSO:

This is the second time that Sangeet Som has made this promise. The
controversial MLA had addressed a similar meeting in Bulandshahr's Kareena
village on Saturday, where he had promised "action against those inciting riots
." Earlier this month, Som had told the press that his party would impose
section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code in cases of cow slaughter.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

CCA riot inmate indicted

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


Oct. 12--NATCHEZ -- One of the inmates identified as an alleged instigator of
the May 20 prison riot at the Adams County Correctional Center has been indicted
by a federal grand jury.

The indictment, filed Oct. 3 in the U.S. District Court for Southern
Mississippi's Western Division, charges that Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano "aided
and abetted by others known and unknown to the grand jury, willfully instigated,
connived, attempted to cause, assisted and conspired to cause a mutiny and riot
at the Adams County Correctional Center."

The official charges follow an affidavit filed in September by an FBI agent that
stated Serrano-Bejarano was one of a number of inmates who stacked food carts in
order to reach correctional officers on the roof of one of the prison's
buildings during the riot.

A correctional officer, Catlin Carithers, was assaulted on the roof of one of
the prison buildings and later died from the wounds he received during the riot.

The affidavit also stated that Serrano-Bejarano was seen in possession of a
prison staff radio during the riot, assaulted a hostage and contributed to the
destruction of parts of the facility.

Previous court filings and public comment from prison officials have stated that
the riot started because a group of Mexican nationals known as Paisas -- which
means "countrymen" -- began a mass disobedience to express displeasure with
prison officials.

The disobedience erupted into a riot when correctional officers tried to control
it, and lasted from approximately 2:30 to 9:30 p.m.

Serrano-Bejarano was released from custody Aug. 28 for his previous crimes, but
has been in federal custody since Sept. 5.

Another inmate, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, pleaded guilty to charges related to the
riot against him Aug. 27, and is set to be sentenced Nov. 19.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121012-YY-CCA-riot-inmate-indicted-1012-20121012

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Riot Fest Denver's future to be settled after public hearing

BYLINE: Matt Miller heyreverb.com

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 471 words


Arapahoe County is seeking public input to decide the future of Riot Fest, which
is scheduled to take place at May Farms in Byers on Sept. 19-21. At the hearing,
scheduled for July 1 at Byers American Legion Hall, Arapahoe County
Commissioners will listen to public comment on land use matters at May Farms,
where Riot Fest took place for the first time in 2013. May Farms at Byers has
requested public comment on two applications, one for the May Farms
Agri-tainment expansion Use by Special Review Amendment and another for the
Temporary Use Permit for Riot Fest, according to documents provided Arapahoe
County Zoning Administrator Tammy King. Following the hearing, the Arapahoe
County Planning Department will evaluate the information provided by the
community and decide if Riot Fest has permission to take place at May Farms on
Sept.

19-21. "There are no guarantees in life," said Riot Fest organizer Max Wagner.
"With every city, with every venue the permits are generally not issued until
close to the event." "We're confident that we're going to get to a place where
the commissioners, the local community leaders are happy," Wagner said. "We
always have contingency plans, but we don't feel as though that will be
necessary." He added that Riot Fest goes through a similar process at events
held in Chicago and Toronto. Until the department makes a decision, King said
Riot Fest does not have permission to hold the event at May Farms. "This would
be a good one for Vegas," said King on if the department would allow or deny
Riot Fest to take place. "We've gotten a lot of emails both in support and in
opposition." An advertisement running in the I-70 Scout is urging the Byers
community to voice its opposition against Riot Fest. "Opponents of the event
must voice their opinions now or Byers might become the wrong kind of town for
families and farmers!," reads the ad, which is paid for by Opponents of Riot
Fest. The advertisement lists the contact information for King, who is taking
letters from the public on the matter. "There are concerned citizens in every
one of our markets," Wagner said. "People will get a personal audience with us
if they have an issue." On June 30, Riot Fest is holding an open house at May
Farms, where organizers will meet with the public to address any concerns. Riot
Fest, produced by Denver promoter Soda Jerk Presents, is scheduled to bring the
Cure, the National, Weezer, Rise Against, the Flaming Lips and more big acts.
When the event debuted in 2013 it faced the same review process, but King said
this year the community has gotten more time to evaluate the festival. This is
the largest event that takes place at May Farms, according to King. Soda Jerk
declined comment for this story.

The crowd appears to be enjoying Day One of the inaugural Riot Fest Denver in
2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The crowd appears to be enjoying Day One of the inaugural Riot Fest
Denver in 2013.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

'Narendra Modi is BJP and BJP is narendra modi'

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 20 -- Shahnawaz Hussain, BJP National Spokesperson and head of the
BJP Minority Morcha speaks about Narendra Modi and BJP's ideology with The New
Indian Express Editorial Director Prabhu Chawla during Teekhi Baat on IBN7.
Excerpts:

Are you a Muslim face, or BJP's face?

I am Indian, and a Muslim, am proud of both of them.

Who is your PM candidate?

Everybody knows our PM candidate is Narendrabhai.

There is a charge on Narendrabhai. Though not proven in court of law, that most
atrocities against Muslims happened in his government.

This is a Congress propaganda.

There are cases in court.

After Independence, during Nehruji, Indiraji, Rajivji's time, weak memory
Narsimha Raoji's time, so many riots have happened. During Narendra Modiji's
time, there was one riot, a train carrying karsevaks was burnt in Godhra. People
were very angry, hence a riot happened, but it was controlled. Today, after that
riot, not even one riot has happened. There is peace and harmony. Attempts are
made to malign Gujarat and BJP's name.

Congress asked for forgiveness for Operation Blue Star...

Modiji has expressed regret on issue of riots many times.

Why does he shy away from asking for forgiveness?

For what? He has already said that it was painful that the riots happened.

But he should ask for forgiveness. Sonia Gandhi asked for forgiveness. Manmohan
Singh asked for forgiveness.

They sponsored the riots. Hence, they asked for forgiveness. But we did not
sponsor the riots. Riots happened. We stopped them.

Is it good that Modi remains quiet on criminalisation of politics?

He has never remained quiet. Our party is against criminalisation. We have
strengthened our voice against it. What is the difference between party and
Narendrabhai?

Which means party is Narendrabhai and vice versa...

Yes, he is in the party and party's ideology is his ideology.

Which means BJP's thought process and Modi's thought process is the same.

How can it be different? He is party leader.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             March 29, 2013 Friday

National: Strategy to prevent future riots is ignored by government, says MP:
Only 11 out of 63 proposals have been implemented: Little has changed since
unrest of 2011 says Lammy

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words


The government has been accused of implementing just a few of the changes
demanded by an inquiry it established to stop a repeat of the 2011 riots in
England.

Research released today says just 11 of 63 proposals made by the panel into the
riots have been implemented a year after the report, published last March.

The cross-party panel established by David Cameron and Nick Clegg was told to
come up with measures to lessen the chances of mass disorder erupting again.

Among the recommendations rejected or not implemented are measures to improve
schools, mentoring for convicted youth offenders to help stop them committing
further crimes, and fresh action to stop young people going without education,
employment or training.

The research comes from David Lammy, the Labour MP whose constituency of
Tottenham, north London, was the flashpoint that triggered the riots after
police shot and killed a man they suspected of being armed in August 2011. It is
based on responses to freedom of information requests and parliamentary
questions about the fate of the panel's 63 recommendations. A year on from the
report, a majority, 35, have been rejected or are unimplemented. Four are under
review, the fate of 13 is unclear, and 11 have been accepted or implemented by
the government.

The riots, communities and victims panel was chaired by Darra Singh. The 2011
riots spread to 66 areas, lasting four days, causing deaths and tens of millions
of pounds of damage, and leading to soul-searching about the causes. Two key
themes were why some deprived areas saw no trouble while others saw extensive
damage, and why some people from similar deprived backgrounds looted while
others walked away. The report explained: "In asking what it was that made young
people make the right choice in the heat of the moment, the panel heard of the
importance of character." Lammy's research says recommendations not implemented
or rejected include schools having to publish their policies for
character-building.

The Department for Education says it has no plans to implement other measures
the riots panel believed would help boost education. These included fining
schools where pupils have poor levels of reading and writing, and ordering
schools to publish the numbers of pupils they exclude, suspend or transfer to a
pupil referral unit for children with problems.

A call by the inquiry panel for a job guarantee for those aged 25 who have spent
two years on the work programme has not been rejected.

Lammy said: "The government made a very clear commitment to the riot communities
that they would do everything they could to prevent the riots ever taking place
again. Eighteen months later and one year after the publication of the
government's own riots report, the impetus for reform has completely evaporated.

"Disappointingly, just a handful of the 63 specific recommendations made in the
report are being implemented. We now head into the summer months with none of
the fundamentals changed since the riots of August 2011."

Among the 11 recommendations that have been accepted or implemented is greater
work to identify potential problem families and measures to help youngsters to
cope with the pressures of advertising and materialism.

After the 2011 riots the government resisted calls for a full-scale inquiry,
such as that conducted by Lord Scarman after the 1981 Brixton riots.

The inquiry cost under £200,000 and had no powers. Lammy contrasted this with
the Leveson inquiry into the media. The panel's report warned: "Should
disturbances happen again, victims and communities will ask our leaders why we
failed to respond effectively in 2012."

A spokesperson for the government said it was yet to formally respond to the
panel's recommendations, but added: "Concerted cross-government action delivered
a series of decisive measures to help rebuild communities following the riots
and public disorder in the summer of 2011."

1,400

The number of people who were jailed after the violence that spread across
English cities in summer 2011

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Riot control vehicle burns in Taksim square

LENGTH: 142  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Turkish riot police intervened to Taksim square on Tuesday for
the first time since demonstrations in the square became violent. One of riot
control vehicles caught fire as protestors threw Molotov cocktail on it.



While riot police moved into Taksim square to remove banners of illegal marginal
groups, clashes occurred among protestors and police. Flaring of a riot control
vehicle which police use to fire water cannon, caught on tape. Footages show
masked protestors throwing stones and Molotov cocktails on police and vehicles.

Two police officers in flared vehicle could escape without injuries while
another riot control truck extinguished the fire with water cannon.

SHOTLIST:
TURKEY, ISTANBUL, 11 JUNE 2013

VAR riot control vehicle burning
VAR of clashes
Another riot control vehicle extinguishing the burning one

DURATION: 05:50
CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Mt. Druitt - St Marys Standard (Australia)

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                             1 - Mt Druitt Edition

Behind the riots

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 234  words


KAREN Therese isn't afraid to ask why.

The writer/director of The Riot Act looks at riots of the past and asks why they
occurred, in a stage performance showing at Blacktown Arts Centre from July 24.

The show focuses on the Redfern (2003) and Macquarie Fields (2004) riots and of
her memories of the 1983 Bidwill riots.

Having worked on the piece for three years, Therese said she wrote the script in
response to media coverage of the events.

``I grew up in Bidwill there was a riot in 1983 where two girls went to fight
about a boy and 1000 people turned up,'' the 36-year-old said. ``There wasn't
really much violence that day based on how many people were there. The way the
media talked about it, they were blaming the people but didn't look at the
social issues that face people in this area.

``Some kids can't read or write and don't have food on their table, and I don't
think you can just blame that on their parents.''

Therese worked extensively with residents, police, youth and social workers to
develop the play.

``I was looking at why riots happen rather than looking at the riot and the
imbalance between what some communities get in relation to support, education,
training and transport.''

The play already received rave reviews by Campbelltown critics and audiences.

The Riot Act is showing at Blacktown Arts Centre from July 2-4 at 7.30pm.
Tickets: adults $20, concession $13. Bookings: 9839 6558.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MDG


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Faizabad Riots: Centre seeks report from Akhilesh Yadav government

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: POLITICS/NATION

LENGTH: 429 words


NEW DELHI: The home ministry has sought a detailed report from the Akhilesh
Yadav government on communal riots in Faizabad, last month, after the Uttar
Pradesh government shied away from submitting any report.

The Centre is concerned as the UP police has not submitted even a single
charge-sheet yet in eight major riots that happened during the tenure of the
Samajwadi Party government.

The state government has informally told the Centre that they have lodged 55
cases related to the Faizabad communal riots and arrested 144 persons, but has
so far submitted no report to the Centre on why the riots could not be
controlled in time.

Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had termed the Faizabad riots a "conspiracy
against his government" but the Centre is looking for a concrete report from the
state on the whole episode as it expects BSP and BJP to strongly raise the issue
in the upcoming winter session of Parliament.

"The home minister will also have to give a reply in the House on the communal
situation in UP, as there is bound to be a discussion on the matter," a senior
official said.

A home ministry official pointed out that a specific advisory, both from the
home ministry and the Intelligence Bureau, was sent to the Uttar Pradesh
government after a riot had broken out in Ghaziabad in September, warning UP of
similar communal outbreaks in other cities. Yet there were riots in Faizabad for
a number of days, leaving four dead.

A home ministry official said that there had been no significant arrests made
for the Ghaziabad riot, where six persons were killed. An ongoing probe by the
UP Police suggests someone deliberately desecrated a religious text and wrote
objectionable words on it to create communal tensions.

There have been two dozen arrests for rioting in the first communal outbreak
under SP rule this year in Mathura on June 1, but only a person has been booked
for murder though four persons had died, sources say.

There were riots in Pratapgarh in June, Bareilly in July and August, followed by
riots in Lucknow and Allahabad in August and then in Faizabad in October. Home
ministry officials say the communal situation in UP has always been sensitive.

Among all states, UP has reported the maximum number of communal incidents, 364,
between 2009 and 2011 which claimed 64 lives and left 1,298 injured.

"The pattern of riots in UP in the last six months indicate a sinister attempt
to create mischief by some elements soon after a new government came to power.
The links between these riots need to be probed," an official said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                    October 3, 1991, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hypothesis: Riot police increase chances of a riot breaking out

BYLINE: Charles Gordon CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13


Until the riot squad appeared it had been a fairly good-natured crowd. Many of
the Public Service Alliance of Canada members had been on Parliament Hill for an
hour and a half, listening to speeches and to Sneezy Waters and other musicians.
If they were not exactly happy, the strikers were at least pleased with their
numbers on this drizzly day, pleased with the impact they would be making.

A bouncy little strike song was being sung and the strikers were clapping along
and enjoying themselves until they saw those shields and visors. Then they began
booing. It wasn't good-natured booing, the way a baseball crowd might boo the
introduction of the umpires for tonight's game. It was the real thing.

Those who called out the riot squad obviously thought they had good reason. A
demonstration Friday got out of hand and there were acts of civil disobedience
Tuesday. But they must have known that the shields and visors would immediately
attract the cameras, and the criticism.

"It's provocative," said Lorne Nystrom, the New Democrat MP, as the crowd's mood
darkened. "It's unnecessary."

There may have been no way of knowing in advance that it was unnecessary. But
someone should have known it would be provocative.

No one had booed the RCMP in normal uniforms who were out in force before the
riot squad arrived. But there is something about the helmets and visors that
says to a law-abiding crowd: We don't trust you. Demonstrators on the Hill have
always got along well with the RCMP, who are unfailingly friendly and polite,
but there is something implicitly violent in the sight of the visor and the
shield, something Canadians find foreign.

Fifteen minutes after the riot squad arrived, a riot almost did too. There was a
brief attempt to break through barricades at the east side of the roadway at the
top of the Hill. It would not be fair to say the presence of the riot squad
caused that skirmish. The group of strikers there seemed to have trouble in
mind.

It is fair to say that the threat of a riot diminished when the riot squad
retreated. This it did in a faintly comical way, executing a clunky about-face
and taking a few steps to the rear without making anyone think of precision
drilling.

The regular RCMP and PSAC marshals had made this possible by talking back and
forth. The marshals, who did not want any of their people charging the Peace
Tower, stood between the barricades and the would-be chargers and calmed their
more excitable brothers and sisters. The riot squad was on the other side. To
the left and to the right of them stood a large number of reporters and cameras.

Without using the word "drooling," let's say that had violence broken out it
would have been extremely well covered. Instead, all that happened was the
tossing of a few eggs, which had the effect of taking all the media attention
away from Daryl Bean, who was speaking at the time.

A helicopter flew overhead. The speeches were over and the songs began again.
The excitable brothers and sisters had their own, which could be sung in honor
of either Brian Mulroney or Gilles Loiselle and was not intended for a family
audience. Shirley Carr, the president of the Canadian Labor Congress, stopped to
talk to reporters about the presence of the riot squad.

"I'm distressed," she said. "We're not terrorists."

Most of the riot police marched away, enabling a test of the hypothesis that the
disappearance of riot police would cause the disappearance of rioters. It seemed
to work. The potential rioters gradually dispersed. Over the barricades, RCMP
officers and PSAC marshals shook hands, which had a much more Canadian look to
it.



LENGTH: 612 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1991 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             March 11, 2011 Friday

QUIET RIOT REUNITES, GETS NEW SINGER

BYLINE: BY DON THRASHER CONTRIBUTING WRITER

SECTION: GO!; Pg. GO8

LENGTH: 339 words


The hard rock band Quiet Riot ended with the death of singer Kevin DuBrow on
Nov. 25, 2007 - or so fans thought. That notion changed in late 2010 when
longtime drummer Frankie Banali decided to revive Quiet Riot with former members
Chuck Wright (bass) and Alex Grossi (guitar) and new vocalist Mark Huff.

Banali took time last week to answer questions about the reconstituted band,
which performs at McGuffy's House of Rock on Saturday, March 12.

Q When did you decide the time was right to reform Quiet Riot?

A "About six months ago, I was approached about the possibility of doing a
documentary on the history of Quiet Riot, and that forced me to go into the
archives. A lot of people don't know that I've managed Quiet Riot for the last
17 years, so because of that I have all the archives. Once I started going
through it and looking at it, that really was the beginning of the healing
process for me. It was also the beginning of me missing being in Quiet Riot and
the idea of playing that material again, so that's really what sparked it."

Q How did you decide on Chuck and Alex, given Quiet Riot's long history?

A "I had no reservations as to who I wanted to invite to participate. Chuck and
Alex were in the last version of Quiet Riot when Kevin was alive, and that was
the most stable version of the band ever. The band sounded great, and the band
was touring hard. Everything was looking wonderful for the future, and they were
a part of that."

Q How did Mark become the new singer for Quiet Riot?

A "Kevin DuBrow cannot be replaced as a singer or entertainer, because he was a
phenomenal entertainer, and he cannot be replaced as a person or as my closest
friend. What's important to me is when people see Quiet Riot they hear it the
way they expect Quiet Riot to sound... We looked into a number of vocalists, and
there were some very good ones, but out of everyone we listened to, Mark was the
one who actually had the vocal abilities and range."

CONTACT contributing arts and music writer Don Thrasher at
donaldthrasher8@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday

Facing backlash, Kanhaiya Kumar forced to clarify on 1984 vs 2002 riots remark;

Criticised for seeking to distinguish between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the
2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar was forced to clarify. Here's
what he said.

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 362  words


Criticised for seeking to distinguish between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the
2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar was forced to clarify. Here's
what he said.

Facing criticism for his remarks suggesting that there was a difference between
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the 2002 Gujarat riots, JNUSU president Kanhaiya
Kumar was forced to clarify his stand, now saying: "both 1984 and 2002 were
indeed state led pogroms for which justice is still awaited."

Kanhaiya, during a panel discussion on "Voices of Azaadi" at the
"Jashne-e-azaadi" festival, said: "there's a difference between Emergency and
fascism. During Emergency, goons of only one party were engaged into goondaism,
in this (fascism) entire state machinery is resorting to goondaism. There is a
difference between riots of 2002 and 1984 Sikh riots.

A day later, his colleagues in the Left movement refused to back his remarks
saying one must not draw comparisons between the two events.

"Why should a left leader try to defend the Congress
(http://indianexpress.com/tag/congress/) government's role in the anti-Sikh
riots, something that even Rahul Gandhi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/rahul-gandhi/) and his party cannot
defend?" AISA president Sucheta De, said.

Shehla Rashid, also of AISA, chose to steer clear of Kanhaiya's remarks saying
that while she wasn't present at the event where the remarks were made, "both
1984 and 2002 were acts of state sponsored violence and we must not draw
contrasts between two human tragedies."

This is what Kanhaiya had to say:

I have been misinterpreted and misrepresented yet again. There isn't an iota of
doubt that Emergency represents one of the darkest periods of Indian democracy.
My organization AISF strongly opposed and fought against the state repression
during Emergency. Both 1984 and 2002 were indeed state led pogroms for which
justice is still awaited. The current central government is relentlessly
carrying forward its fascist agenda using state power, as visible in the recent
authoritarian actions against students and all voices of dissent across the
country. What we now witness is unprecedented - a form of undeclaredemergency.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday

1984 anti-Sikh riots vs 2002 Gujarat riots: 'Sorry Kanhaiya, can't agree';
A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar's controversial remarks claiming
there was a difference between the 1984 riots and the 2002 riots, his colleagues
in the Left have expressed their disagreement.

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 405  words


A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar's controversial remarks claiming
there was a difference between the 1984 riots and the 2002 riots, his colleagues
in the Left have expressed their disagreement.

A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar stoked controversy claiming that
there was a difference between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the 2002 Gujarat
riots, his colleagues in the larger Left movement -including JNUSU vice
president Shehla Rashid Shore - have expressed their disagreement.

"Why should a left leader try to defend the Congress
(http://indianexpress.com/tag/congress/) government's role in the anti-Sikh
riots, something that even Rahul Gandhi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/rahul-gandhi/) and his party cannot
defend?" AISA president Sucheta De, said.

"To say that 1984 riots were mob frenzy and not state sponsored would only
justify the 'big tree falls' theory regarding sikh massacre," she added.
(http://www.facebook.com/sucheta.de.9/posts/1065329546864387)

Shehla Rashid, also of AISA, chose to steer clear of
(http://www.facebook.com/ShoraSR/posts/1750162051882221) Kanhaiya's remarks
saying that while she wasn't present at the event where the remarks were made,
"both 1984 and 2002 were acts of state sponsored violence and we must not draw
contrasts between two human tragedies."

"The survivors of 1984 state sponsored communal pogrom deserve all our support
and we must refrain from making any statement that undermines their struggle for
justice. In 1984 also, the JNU campus not only opposed the violence, but even
sheltered some of the Sikhs who were running for cover. We have spoken out
against Gujarat as vocally as against Hashimpura and Singur-Nandigram. We cannot
prejudge the case and give a clean chit to the state, when there has been no
credible investigation into the whole affair," Rashid said, on her Facebook
page.

"We must not be apologetic about 1984 massacre, but must unequivocally condemn
it."

Kanhaiya, during a panel discussion on "Voices of Azaadi" at the
"Jashne-e-azaadi" festival, said
(http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/kanhaiya-kumar-jnusu-pr
esident-2002-gujrat-riots1984-sikh-riots/) "there's a difference between
Emergency and fascism. During Emergency, goons of only one party were engaged
into goondaism, in this (fascism) entire state machinery is resorting to
goondaism. There is a difference between riots of 2002 and 1984 Sikh riots.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Perspective needed on the hockey riot; Yes, it was bad, but there's no reason to
believe Vancouver has become a worse place than it was the day before

BYLINE: Stephen Hume, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Stephen Hume; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 617  words


Oh, Lord, will this inflated anguish over the hockey riot never subside?

Look, the riot was bad. People were hurt. Nobody deserves that. No intelligent
person excuses the participants. Looters, vandals, people who committed violent
assaults should be punished as - and when - they are found guilty in a court of
law. Yes, let's examine our response procedures. Until then can we just stop
fulminating about it?

Let's have some perspective here. We're told 60 businesses were affected by the
riot. Damage estimates range from $1 million to $5 million.

In the month elapsed since the riot, 155 businesses and 199 residences in
Vancouver have been subjected to property crimes of varying severity ranging
from break-ins to major vandalism. There have been more than 50 cases of arson.

It's reported that 15 vehicles were destroyed during the riot at a cost of about
$500,000 to ICBC for insurance claims.

In the month since the riot, at least 100 cars have been wrecked in motor
vehicle accidents, many because a driver was at fault, and 129 vehicles have
been stolen outright, some recovered, no doubt, but some either wrecked or never
to be seen again. Even if the stolen cars were all wellused Dodge Neons, which
is doubtful, the cost will run somewhere about $775,000 at a minimum.

Top estimate for damage in the riot is $5 million. Payouts by ICBC for damage to
people and property by motor vehicles over the past two years tops $5 billion.

Estimates for injuries in the riot, some of them serious, run from 57 to more
than 200. Nobody diminishes injuries. But last year alone, more than 13,000
people were injured in Vancouver in motor vehicle accidents and since 2002,
almost 200 people have been killed. For the region in 2010, it was 97,220
accidents injuring 28,700 people.

In the month elapsed since the riot, there have been about 500 criminal assaults
in Vancouver. There have been 40 sexual assaults. Not counting the vehicular
mayhem, that's about 18 violent acts against individuals per day.

Vancouver police department statistics show that in the realm of sexual
assaults, attacks by strangers were up 16 per cent in 2010, incidents of
groping, grabbing and unwanted kissing were up 24 per cent. The central business
district was where the preponderance of these incidents occurred.

Proportional to this bigger picture, the actual consequences of the riot start
to look somewhat less significant.

In the last decade, 24,238 Vancouver businesses have been victimized by property
crime. More than 4,500 people in Vancouver, the vast majority of them women,
have been sexually assaulted. More than 42,000 incidents of violent assault have
been recorded. More than 150 have been murdered. More than 160 have been victims
of attempted murder.

Frankly, we'd have to endure a hockey riot every month for a decade to match
those totals.

None of this is to point fingers at the Vancouver police department. Our police
seem to be doing a commendable job in difficult circumstances. And, if you ask
me, they did a good job on the day of the hockey riot, quite properly reading a
fast-developing situation and making their priority not protection of property
but the safety of people - even the idiots who were rioting. I think their
strategic restraint prevented things from becoming a lot worse than they might
have.

But our purveyors of hot air should put these events in context. Nobody thought
on the day before the riot that Vancouver belonged in the realm of the Road
Warrior. It doesn't. Vancouver is still a remarkably tranquil and polite place
as big cities go. It is silly to think that what happened after the hockey game
indicates it's become a worse place than it was a day earlier.

shume@islandnet.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arlen Redekop,  PNG Files; It would take a hockey riot every month for
a decade to match crime levels in Vancouver over the past 10 years.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

We don't need more riot police

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 437 words


CHIEF Commissioner Ken Lay has offered a puzzling justification for his plan to
double the size of the Victoria Police riot squad, from 50 to 110 officers. The
decision, Mr Lay said, was partly motivated by the riots that swept English
cities in August last year: "What would our response be if we had a similar
incident? I certainly thought that there was room to make us better." The
comparison will strike anyone familiar with Britain's urban social problems as
bizarre, for Victoria has nothing like them in scale or intensity.

The Chief Commissioner was no doubt aware of this, however, because he also
suggested that the swollen riot squad would be useful support for general duties
police called out to rowdy teenage parties of several hundred people. Well,
that's a better try, Mr Lay, but not by much. Teenage revels do sometimes get
out of hand, it is true. But the level of force needed to restore order does not
always, or even very often, require helmeted police advancing behind riot
shields, with backup from mounted colleagues and billows of pepper spray or tear
gas wafting overhead. That scenario is rare in this state. The only recent event
resembling it was the eviction of the Occupy Melbourne protesters from the City
Square in October last year. And that was not a response to a riot. It was the
application of what Assistant Commissioner Stephen Fontana described as "minimum
force".

Nonetheless, Mr Lay insists that the enlarged riot squad is necessary, even at
the teenage parties, so that "when our general duties fellas and girls get faced
with this situation they have got an ability to roll out and address it and hit
it hard". The Chief Commissioner's language is so bellicose that he almost
sounds as though he is trying to convince himself of the need for more
paramilitary police. And Mr Lay's examples are so unrelated to the Victoria
people know that cynics might wonder whether the riot squad plan is really his
own initiative or comes from his political masters in the Baillieu government.
Doubling the riot squad is like the government's plan to put armed guards on
Melbourne railway stations after dark: it is aimed at the perception, not the
reality, of crime. Except that in this case even the perception is hazy, or it
would not be necessary to evoke riots in foreign cities.

Mr Lay is fortunate in that he will soon have 400 more police at his disposal.
He can surely find better ways of deploying them than by doubling the riot squad
- by assigning them to understaffed country or suburban stations, for example.
Their presence should reassure, not intimidate, the public they serve.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Open door: The readers' editor on...: reporting the unheard voices from the
riots

BYLINE: Chris Elliott

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 693 words


The phrase "journalism is the first rough draft of history" is familiar to those
in newspapers. But the next part of the sentence used by Phil Graham, the
publisher of the Washington Post, in a speech 50 years ago, is less often heard.
It is ". . . that will never really be completed about a world we can never
really understand".

The Guardian, in partnership with the London School of Economics, has attempted
to address those last issues in a unique project, Reading the Riots, the results
of which were published over three days last week. In last summer's English
riots - irritated readers were quite rightly quick to point out our misplaced
use of Britain or UK in headlines - in the wake of the shooting of Mark Duggan
by a Metropolitan police officer, an extraordinary wave of violence washed
through many cities.

Rioters used Twitter and BlackBerry messaging to organise and communicate, while
journalists used the social media to track and report what was happening.

Paul Lewis and Matthew Taylor covered the riots extensively for the Guardian.
Lewis used Twitter as a crowd-sourcing and reporting tool over four nights,
gathering 35,000 followers.

In the days after the riots last August, the pair felt it was important to go
one step further, to dig deeper to understand why the riots had happened.

The Guardian approached the LSE, specifically Professor Tim Newburn, a
criminologist, and the project was funded by the Open Society and Joseph
Rowntree foundations. The project began in September, three weeks after the
riots, and the first results were published on 5 December 2011. Lewis said: "The
aim was to investigate the causes and consequences of the riots, because the
coalition government made very clear there would be no full inquiry."

The idea was modelled on a similar project in the US in 1967 following the
Detroit riots, when the Detroit Free Press teamed up with social researchers
from the University of Michigan to investigate the causes of the riots.

As in Detroit, the Guardian and LSE recruited and trained 30 researchers with
close links to the riot-affected communities, then interviewed 270 rioters, 130
police officers, members of the Crown Prosecution Service and others - 600 in
all. In total, 100 researchers, academics and analysts were involved over the
life of the project, sifting the results. They gathered 2m words directly from
individuals who had been involved, and analysed 2.6m tweets. Only the judiciary
refused a formal request to take part. Each interview was taped, transcribed and
entered into a database created by Harold Frayman, a systems editor.

"It was very tricky to find the rioters," said Lewis. The project tracked 1,000
court appearances by those charged in connection with the riots. Each of those
households received a letter seeking co-operation from rioters, and people were
also interviewed in prison with the permission of the Ministry of Justice.

While phase one concentrated on the rioters, phase two of the project told the
stories of the police, victims, vigilantes and courts. Keir Starmer, the
director of public prosecutions, was among those interviewed. Lewis said: "(The
police) took some persuading but ultimately realised there was learning to be
had, that there was no harm in taking part in something that was underpinned by
real academic rigour."

There were only three formal complaints to the readers' editor. Two were about
the large-scale coverage and another said the Guardian was wrong to suggest that
interviews with 130 officers represented "the views of thousands" of officers.
Given the scale, scope and sensitivity of the project, that does not seem an
exceptionally high number. Taylor said: "It may not be the definitive piece of
research but these are voices that have never been heard."

I asked Lewis and Taylor what they thought had been the biggest mistake.

"We didn't get emergency workers," said Lewis. "Their voices are seldom heard."
It also taught the journalists a different interviewing technique, he said: "It
is very different. Academics take a non-leading approach, where the interview is
led by the interviewee. I've found myself interviewing differently since."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Twitter? Facebook? Rioters saw it on TV

BYLINE: Yemisi Adegokeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 697 words

ABSTRACT

The spread of the riots was covered well enough by mainstream media for some
people to use it to find out where disorder was taking place so they could join
in

FULL TEXT

Social media's role in fuelling the riots was the focus of government and press
attention in the aftermath of the August riots - but the Reading the Riots
research suggests the dramatic imagery beamed around the country through
mainstream media may have played just as significant a role.

More than 100 of the project's 270 interviewees referred to hearing about the
riots through TV news - more than those who heard about it through Twitter,
texts, Facebook or BlackBerry Messenger.

A 22-year-old recently returned from Afghanistan described seeing images of a
burning police station on the television with the mother of one of his friends.

"It looked like we was at war again or something, do you know what I mean, it
was that bad, and I said: 'What's this?'. She said: 'It's the youth rebellion'
or something, and I thought: 'Well, why ain't I in that?'"

He said the scenes portrayed in the footage showed an unusual sense of unity,
which tempted him to get involved.

"It just made me realise how it was: we was all together, like, do you know what
I mean? These are lads that, if they seen each other out, they'd stab each other
... without a second thought, like. It happens all the time.

"If they come to town and they see each other, one or the other will normally
leave, and they were just there together, not together, walking past each other
just happy with what was going on."

Some rioters also said the high impact of the TV coverage tempted them to get
involved with the unrest.

"The telly's kinda dumb," said a 16-year-old involved in looting in Clapham
Junction. "All them media people, to say: 'Rah, there's a riot in Clapham
Junction.' That's basically advertising: 'Young people go to Clapham Junction
and do what you're doing.' And to say that there was no police there for about
three or four hours - once again, advertising to them the riot. Rah, yeah,
there's no police here, let's go and have some fun."

TV channels, particularly rolling news, often reused dramatic footage for
several hours during the disturbances, as stations struggled to send camera
crews to the latest sites of unrest. Camera crews also had difficulty filming
after coming under attacks from rioters; a BBC camera van was attacked in
Salford.

The spread of the riots was conveyed well enough by the mainstream media,
however, for some rioters to use it to find out where the disorder was taking
place so they could join in.

A 25-year-old from south London, for example, used his car stereo rather than
social media to track disturbances. "You didn't need to have Facebook or a BB
[BlackBerry]," he said. "You could just listen to the radio, to the news, to
whatever station's talking about what was happening in whatever areas that it
was happening today, and you would be able to know where you can go to find
where to riot; it was simple as that."

Rioters outside London, where the use of BlackBerry Messenger to spread
information on riot locations was less common, said the TV news had encouraged
then to get involved in trouble and fuelled the spread of the riots. "They had
maps on the news showing where it had spread to," said a 22-year-old who clashed
with police in Birmingham. "I think they had it red round where it was going off
bad and I think Birmingham, London, I think Manchester, certain parts of
Manchester sort of thing that was really bad, and I was like, 'Birmingham?' and
I went straight on the train, like."

For others, however, TV's habit of reusing footage from hours before led to
trouble, as one rioter tempted by footage of streets empty of police recalls:
"It's only I see on the news, and I thought: 'Boy, it's an opportunity that I
can't miss,'" said a 32-year-old. "Like, so I went out there, basically, with
the intention of going out to try and steal stuff, only because I thought the
police weren't doing nothing about it. If I'd have known that that was gonna
happen to me, I wouldn't have done it."

The man was arrested, and is currently serving a two-year sentence for
commercial burglary.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cup riot prosecutors reject TV broadcasts

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 412  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The first test case of Crown applications to televise Stanley Cup riot-related
trials is expected this month, and so far none of the prosecutors assigned to
handle the cases have consented to their images being broadcast, the president
of the B.C. Crown Counsel Association said Wednesday.

"None of them have given their consent to be captured [by TV cameras]," Samiran
Lakshman said of the riot prosecution team.

Prosecutors have concerns for their safety because they often deal with violent
criminals, so they are hesitant to have their images broadcast on TV and
live-streamed over the Internet during the riot-related trials, he said.

Lakshman also has concerns that legal arguments over allowing TV cameras in
court for riot-related trials will further delay a system that is already under
stress from shortages of court staff, prosecutors and provincial court judges.

"The system is overloaded as it is," Lakshman said. "We are so strapped for
time, why are we adding this additional burden?"

B.C. Premier Christy Clark initially announced in her throne speech last fall
that she wanted to see those accused of taking part in the June 15 riot in
downtown Vancouver held accountable by having their trials broadcast.

The Criminal Justice Branch, which handles criminal prosecutions in B.C., wasn't
initially thrilled with the idea.

But Attorney General Shirley Bond ordered the Crown to apply in court to
broadcast each of proceedings linked to the riot.

So far, the Crown has applied in every case, but there has been no legal
argument heard on the issue.

Defence lawyers are expected to oppose having their clients' cases broad-cast as
well.

The first test case is expected on Jan. 19.

Guilty pleas are expected in many of the riot-related cases because there is so
much video and photographic evidence gathered by citizens during the riot.

The riot resulted in police cars being burned, windows smashed and stores
looted, causing millions in damage after the Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley
Cup final game to the Boston Bruins.

If anyone pleads guilty, the media are expected to join in the Crown application
to broadcast the sentencing of the accused.

Bentley Doyle, communications director for the Trial Lawyers Association of
B.C., said some trial lawyers are concerned that having cameras in court could
prejudice a person's right to a fair trial and might affect the testimony of
witnesses. Cameras might also deter some witnesses from coming forward to
testify, he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Orange Leader (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

'Bang Your Head' one more time

BYLINE: Tommy Mann Jr., The Orange Leader, Texas

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 668 words


Dec. 09--WINNIE, Texas -- One of the hardest rocking shows of the year comes to
Nutty Jerry's this weekend, featuring a band whose name will live in rock
history forever.

Quiet Riot will perform Saturday night at Nutty Jerry's in Winnie, Texas, for
all ages. Tickets are $25-$35 each and can be purchased at the door or by
calling 877-643-7508 or online at www.nuttyjerrys.com.

The band's origins can be traced back to the mid-1970s and guitar legend Randy
Rhoads, who was a founding member of the group. Although Rhoads split from the
group, it was the 1982 incarnation of the band featuring Kevin DuBrow, vocals;
Carlos Cavazo, guitar; Rudy Sarzo, bass; and Frankie Banali, drums, which
achieved the greatest success and made Quiet Riot a world-wide brand.

Quiet Riot's claim to immortality came in 1983 with the release of their debut
record, "Metal Health." In November of the same year, the band's second single,
"Cum On Feel the Noize" reached the Top 5 of the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart
and helped carry the album to the number 1 spot on the Billboard albums chart
making it the first heavy metal album to ever reach the number 1 position in the
U.S.

This album is credited as the launching pad of success for hard rock bands in
the '80s and broader commercial appeal.

"The reality is that, like it or not, Quiet Riot was the band that opened the
floodgates for the music of this genre with the success of the 'Metal Health'
release," said Frankie Banali of Quiet Riot. "Once the music industry took note
of the huge success and records sales, it gave other bands the opportunity to
carve their own successes. Without the early accomplishments of Quiet Riot, you
may never have heard of many of the bands that followed. I am proud to have
accomplished that alongside the late, great Kevin DuBrow, Rudy Sarzo and Carlos
Cavazo."

The band continued to release albums throughout the 1980s and 1990s, some with
the original lineup and some with other variations, but it was the band's live
show and songs which fans related to the most.

Charismatic lead singer Kevin DuBrow died in November 2007 at his home in Las
Vegas due to what was later determined to be a cocaine overdose. Banali
initially stated he would no longer continue the band name of Quiet Riot out of
respect for his late friend.

However, as the old saying goes, never say never.

"The fans made me decide to continue, which prompted me to reform Quiet Riot and
bring the fans the best possible performances today of the Quiet Riot music they
love from the band's history," Banali explained. "It's still difficult for me to
continue Quiet Riot (since DuBrow's death).

"The fans have been absolutely wonderful, and I so very much appreciate their
support of Quiet Riot here and now," he continued.

Banali has always been a coveted drummer throughout his career. He continues to
do numerous recording sessions when not on the road with Quiet Riot, but it is
the band he spent the majority of his life in that remains a priority in 2011
and into 2012.

The current lineup of Quiet Riot features Banali, along with Mark Huff on
vocals, Alex Grossi on guitar and Chuck Wright on bass.

Wright was actually the bassist in Quiet Riot in 1982 and recorded two songs on
the "Metal Health" album and provided backing vocals on the entire album. Grossi
joined Quiet Riot in 2004 prior to DuBrow's death in 2007.

Banali said the group spent much of the current year on the road and is already
looking to make 2012 as equally successful.

"While Quiet Riot may never get inducted into the (Rock and Roll) Hall of Fame,
we kickstarted the rock and roll movement when it didn't exist in the early
1980s," Banali said. "I'm still here to tell the story and continue the band's
history. We are in production of a full-length documentary on the history of the
band. My unwavering commitment is to Quiet Riot and the fans."

___ (c)2011 The Orange Leader (Orange, Texas) Visit The Orange Leader (Orange,
Texas) at www.orangeleader.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111209-XY-Bang-Your-Head-one-more-time-1209-20111209

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XY


                        Copyright 2011 The Orange Leader


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Volunteer posse to help hunt 'wanted' Vancouver riot suspects

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 488  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department is launching a unique program to use a wide
network of volunteers to help track down suspected Stanley Cup rioters.

With newly acquired images of people they believe were involved in the June 15
riot, the department's Integrated Riot Investigation Team (IRIT) is in the midst
of producing a new poster of all the latest unidentified suspects.

It will have the artistic look of a wild-west wanted poster, with mug shots of
the suspects prominently displayed.

The poster blitz will run March 8 from 11 a.m., to 11 p.m.

Hundreds of volunteers are scheduled to be at SkyTrain stations, bus loops,
campus meetings spots and anywhere else where there are crowds of young people
to hand out the updated wanted posters.

According to IRIT Sgt. Howard Chow, the riot squad felt the poster campaign
planned for the entire Greater Vancouver region will serve a number of purposes
in the investigation to find those who caused millions in damage in Vancouver's
downtown core.

For one, he notes, it gives people who are outraged at the ugly events of June
15 a chance to help out in the justice process. And secondly, the poster
campaign is to run throughout the Greater Vancouver area, allowing people
outside of Vancouver to see the new batch of people suspected of being involved
in the infamous riot.

"We're looking for anybody who is willing to come out and help and show the
victims of this riot support and send a strong message that we want these
rioters held accountable," said Chow.

He says they used about 150 volunteers to help distribute posters in November as
the riot investigation moved into high gear and they had dozens of unidentified
suspects captured on images they obtained in the early stages of the police
work.

A list of the best locations to hand out the posters is being compiled by the
police to maximize the day's efforts.

If everything goes as planned, Chow thinks about 30,000 posters could be handed
out on March 8.

"Depending on the number of volunteers, we may print more if there is a big
response."

Shortly after the riot, in which stores were looted, cars set on fire and people
assaulted, Chow recalls how Vancouver's police force heard the anger of the
community.

"The days following the riot, people were outraged," said Chow. "And this poster
campaign is their opportunity to come forward and say this riot will not be
tolerated and help out the victims of the riot."

The upcoming poster drive is the force's largest ever use of volunteers to help
in an ongoing investigation, adds Chow.

To date Vancouver police have recommended 350 criminal charges against 125
suspected rioters. Five more accused rioters were charged Thursday bringing the
number of people before the courts with Crown-approved charges to 57.

They face a total of 153 criminal charges. Two weeks ago, Ryan Dickinson, 20,
the first person to be convicted of participating in the riot, was handed a
17-month jail sentence.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News; Integrated Riot Investigation spokesperson Sgt. Howard
Chow holds a poster similar to the one about to be distributed with new faces of
the 2011 Stanley Cup riots suspects in Vancouver.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

Theresa May to review stop and search in wake of Reading the Riots study

BYLINE: James Ballguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1107 words

ABSTRACT

Home secretary says use of police tactic should be proportionate as Ed Miliband
criticises her 'simplistic' response to riots

FULL TEXT

Theresa May has announced a national review of how police use stop and search
powers in response to the findings of the Guardian/LSE report on the August
riots.

Speaking at the Reading the Riots conference on Wednesday, the home secretary
announced she had asked the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) to
review the use of stop and search by forces across the country.

The Reading the Riots research found that anger at the police was a major fuel
for the London riots, with 86% of rioters citing policing as an important or
very important factor in causing the disturbances.

May said police were right to stop and search those caught in the riots as often
as they did, but said use of the controversial tactic should be proportionate.

"Should we worry that the rioters were eight times more likely than the average
Londoner to be stopped and searched, when the research found young rioters were
22 times more likely than their peers to have been convicted of a crime?" she
asked.

"I strongly believe that stop and search should be used proportionately, without
prejudice, and with the support of local communities ... and I have asked the
Association of Chief Police Officers to look at best practice on stop and
search."

May rejected rioters' assertions that the unrest was linked to alienation from
the police or the government, dismissing concerns raised in the research report
as "excuses".

"What the LSE/Guardian report tells me more than anything is that the rioters
still have not accepted responsibility for their actions," she said. "They are
still blaming others - the police, the government, society. They are still
making excuses, but I don't accept those excuses."

May blamed the looting and unrest on the desire for "instant gratification".

"The riots weren't about protests, unemployment, cuts," she said. "The riots
were not about the future, about tomorrow. They were about today. They were
about now. They were about instant gratification."

However, her criticisms were rejected by Ed Miliband. Addressing the conference,
the Labour leader paid tribute to the research and said that when people did not
like research findings they often "attacked the researchers".

"Some people, and I gather the home secretary did this this morning, give the
easy answer: it is criminality pure and simple and it only needs a criminal
justice system response ... I have never been convinced the answers are as
simple as that ... that [it] is one simplistic answer is one we should reject."

Instead Miliband called for a "more comprehensive and more complex response" to
the riots based around "greater opportunities and values".

"I reject the arguments of those who say opportunity doesn't matter ... and I
reject as well the arguments of those who say values don't matter."

Miliband said poverty, poor education and a lack of hope and opportunity for
many of those who rioted had been a major factor in the disturbances.

He also pledged to make youth service provision - which has been severely hit by
government cuts - statutory. "Services that [councils] aren't legally obliged to
do can be cut," said Miliband. "I think there's a strong case for making youth
services statutory. Youth services are a place where local institutions get
nurtured."

The home secretary said aspects of the study's methodology concerned her, saying
the research was disproportionately weighted towards London, focused too heavily
on rioters and underplayed the role of criminality.

May added that she felt London's gangs had played a significant role in August's
riots, despite evidence from the Guardian/LSE study and official sources that
the role of gangs in the disturbances was minimal.

"I believe the fact that one in five rioters in London were gang members is
significant," she said.

"If we are honest with ourselves, we need to accept that not enough has been
done over the years to deal with this problem that we all knew existed and that
we knew was not being addressed. This government is committed to dealing with
it."

A spokesperson for the Riots Communities and Victims Panel said: "We are very
pleased that the home secretary has asked the Association of Chief Police
Officers to review best practice on stop and search, which was a recommendation
in our interim report.

"We spoke to communities about stop and search on our visits to 17 areas
affected by the August riots, and three areas that were not.

"We discovered that if stop and search is not conducted correctly and with
courtesy there is a risk that widespread support for it in communities will be
eroded.

"This was not an issue simply raised by rioters. Individuals, young and old and
from all backgrounds, told us it must be addressed to improve relationships
between the public and the police."

Tim Newburn, the head of social policy for the LSE and lead academic on Reading
the Riots, welcomed May's announcement of an Acpo review into stop and search.
"The review of stop and search announced by the home secretary is hugely
significant. Used inappropriately, stop and search can pose a huge challenge to
public trust and confidence in policing. Given the findings of Reading the Riots
, an assessment of good and bad practice is very timely."

Newburn also praised Miliband's proposal for youth services. "The Guardian/LSE
research has highlighted the dangers of failing to engage with our most
marginalised young people," he said. "Putting youth services on a statutory
footing would be a good first step in bringing many young people back into the
mainstream."

The conference was held to discuss the findings of the first phase of a joint
Guardian/LSE project investigating the causes and consequences of the England
riots.

Researchers interviewed 270 people who took part in the unrest in London,
Birmingham, Liverpool, Nottingham, Manchester and Salford. In total the study
collected more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts, giving an insight into
what drove people to participate in England's most serious bout of civil unrest
in a generation.

Rioters revealed that a complex mix of grievances brought them on to the streets
but analysts appointed by the LSE identified distrust and antipathy towards the
police as a key driving force.

Alongside Miliband and May, the conference was due to hear from many of the
project's researchers and panel debates featuring Louise Casey, the director
general of the government's troubled families unit, the shadow home secretary,
Yvette Cooper, and Camila Batmanghelidjh, founder of the Kids Company charity.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Gujarat will give befitting reply to critics: Modi

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 313 words


AHMEDABAD: In an effort to silence the Congress, chief minister Narendra Modi
blogged again on Tuesday about how he too was against riots. He posted on his
personal blog links of his speech telecast on Doordarshan on the afternoon of
February 28, 2002 and how he had appealed for peace.

The Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned Modi
last week-end for over nine hours on the Godhra riots of 2002, where he is
learnt to have also presented evidence in his defence.

Modi and 61 others have been blamed for omissions and commissions in the
post-Godhra riots in a complaint filed by widow of slain Congress ex-MP Ahsan
Jafri, Zakia, before the SC. The SIT is inquiring into these charges.

Justifying his reaction, his blog said: "Unsubstantiated criticism of the land
of Gandhi, Sardar (Vallabhbhai Patel) can never be tolerated. Gujarat will give
a befitting reply again, and again and again come what may." He claimed that his
appeal "had not been heard by those who are bent upon defaming Gujarat nor do I
foresee that it will be heard by them now."

"The Congress has asked Shri Amitabh Bachchanji whether he opposes Gujarat riots
or not? Friends, Modi himself has opposed the riots and still does. Every
citizen must oppose riots. Whether it is 1984 Delhi riots, 1992 Mumbai riots,
1985 Gujarat riots or atrocities committed in Kashmir or Godhra-related riots.
There cannot be different standards to judge riots," said Modi.

He wondered when he had not named anyone when referring to 'Talibans of
untouchability,' why the Congress was reacting thus.

Modi said he had also said the same thing in March 2002 in the state assembly
and quoted from his speech for the sake of "those spreading lies day and night."
"My 2002 March statement in Gujarat Assembly is enough for the world community
to understand the truth," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

Saffron study nails congress's riot governance

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 27 -- In a bid to counter the Congress gameplan to target Gujarat
Chief Minister Narendra Modi on the riots in his state, the BJP think tank,
Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC) was re-launched on October 21. Headed by
director Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, the think-tank drafted a nine-page document on the
history of communal riots in India.

Recording India's long history of communal strife, the think-tank has presented
a comparative study of causes and responsibilities regarding other major riots.
The comparative graph forms a virtual arsenal to attack the Congress's failed
record of maintaining communal stability in states it has ruled. In the 1983
Nellie Massacre (result of clashes between ethnic Assamese and Bangladeshi
settlers), 1,819 Muslims were killed on Congress watch. During the 1984 Delhi
riots that followed Indira Gandhi's assassination, around 2,733 Sikhs were
butchered. In the 1969 Ahmedabad riots in Congress-ruled Gujarat triggered by an
attack on a temple, the toll was 512, out of which 430 were Muslims. During the
2002 Gujarat riots, 1,267 Hindus and Muslims were killed and 223 were reported
missing. The comparative analysis notes the convictions of rioters. The paper
says that not one rioter or killer involved in the Nellie holocaust was
convicted. Many were acquitted for participating in the Delhi riots. In the case
of those arrested for involvement in the 2002 Gujarat riots, there have been 294
convictions in 19 cases till date; 184 Hindus, 65 Muslims (31 for Godhra and 34
for post-Godhra violence) have been sentenced including the powerful former
minister in the Modi cabinet, Maya Kodnani.

The comparative graph also notes the way prime ministers were regarded in the
aftermath of riots. It concludes by saying that no probe was initiated against
Indira Gandhi after the Nellie riots; there were no SITs, Supreme Court
intercessions or media trials. In 1984, as Congress goons hunted and massacred
Sikhs, Rajiv Gandhi commented that when a giant tree falls, earth shakes. It
took 25 years for the Congress to apologise. The research paper notes that the
party is still protecting Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar for their complicity.
But in the case of the 2002 riots, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narendra Modi
continued to be blamed for 11 years, the report says.

The paper records 58 major communal riots as having taken place in 47 places
since 1967, of which 10 were in South India, 12 in the East, 16 in the West and
20 in North India. The overall number of riots stood at 12,828 (South (597,)
West (3,426) East (3,581) North (5,224). Referring to 18 major (where over a 100
people died) riots, the PPRC document says 10 took place under Congress or
allies' rule; three under President's Rule (President's Rule was imposed in
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh after the Babri Masjid demolition), four under
other parties and only one under BJP rule in 2002.

"There were 1,194 communal violence incidents documented in India from 1950 to
1995. Out of these, 871 or 72.95 per cent were during Nehru, Indira and Rajiv's
PM-ship," the paper added. On the UPA's rule, the research paper says, the
"Sonia (Gandhi)-Manmohan (Singh) led UPA regime witnessed 5,921 communal
incidents causing 943 deaths."

"Congress-ruled Assam witnessed the bloodiest violence in Bodoland territorial
districts in July-August 2012... The local Bodos clashed with illegal immigrants
from Bangladesh. An estimated 97 people lost their lives... The Congress'
alliance partner Samajwadi Party-ruled Uttar Pradesh witnessed 27 incidents of
communal violence since it formed the government in the state. Among these,
three incidents were big, which occurred at Mathura, Bareilly and Faizabad," the
paper argues. Specifically referring to riots that occurred during Congress rule
in Gujarat (1950-1995), the PPRC paper notes that the state reported 244 cases
of communal violence with casualties numbering 1,601; Ahmedabad alone reported
71 incidents claiming 1,071 lives.

Sahasrabuddhe, the main architect of this document, told The Sunday Standard,
"The idea behind the research and the institute is to help the party formulate
its views. The current political discourse is skewed and does not present a
holistic picture... The discourse is biased against Gujarat, as it was clear
from (Rahul) Gandhi's recent speeches... The BJP is portrayed as an aggressor
who has done more wrongs. The research would help clear this misconception, help
functionaries and party leaders to formulate their views so that we have the
arsenal ready to influence the discourse."

Sahasrabuddhe explains that the current political discourse was media-driven.
Due to shortage of space and time, it presents only the contemporary context and
fails to present a holistic picture. PPRC is currently funded by party
affiliated trust Bharatiya Lok Kalyan Nyas. Along with him, the body has two
more board members-Nalin Kohli and Dr Sumeet Bhasin who are assisted by two
researchers.

The research institution intends to broaden its horizons and engage with
academia. It will employ interns to help in research and even assist academics
who adhere to party ideology. "Our purpose is to strengthen them so that they
should not feel alone," Sahasrabuddhe added.

The Centre was launched by former BJP president Nitin Gadkari in 2011 and
functioned out of a humble basement in Lajpat Nagar. After bringing out a series
of papers and "feeling confident" that it can become a full-fledged research
centre to help the BJP, the PPRC was re-launched last week, and shifted to its
current upmarket Subramania Bharati Marg address, a few meters away from the
world's costliest market Khan Market, which is home to many other
party-affiliated trusts.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

Saffron study nails Congress riot governance

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 27 -- In a bid to counter the Congress gameplan to target Gujarat
Chief Minister Narendra Modi on the riots in his state, the BJP think tank,
Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC) was re-launched on October 21. Headed by
director Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, the think-tank drafted a nine-page document on the
history of communal riots in India.

Recording India's long history of communal strife, the think-tank has presented
a comparative study of causes and responsibilities regarding other major riots.
The comparative graph forms a virtual arsenal to attack the Congress's failed
record of maintaining communal stability in states it has ruled. In the 1983
Nellie Massacre (result of clashes between ethnic Assamese and Bangladeshi
settlers), 1,819 Muslims were killed on Congress watch. During the 1984 Delhi
riots that followed Indira Gandhi's assassination, around 2,733 Sikhs were
butchered. In the 1969 Ahmedabad riots in Congress-ruled Gujarat triggered by an
attack on a temple, the toll was 512, out of which 430 were Muslims. During the
2002 Gujarat riots, 1,267 Hindus and Muslims were killed and 223 were reported
missing. The comparative analysis notes the convictions of rioters. The paper
says that not one rioter or killer involved in the Nellie holocaust was
convicted. Many were acquitted for participating in the Delhi riots. In the case
of those arrested for involvement in the 2002 Gujarat riots, there have been 294
convictions in 19 cases till date; 184 Hindus, 65 Muslims (31 for Godhra and 34
for post-Godhra violence) have been sentenced including the powerful former
minister in the Modi cabinet, Maya Kodnani.

The comparative graph also notes the way prime ministers were regarded in the
aftermath of riots. It concludes by saying that no probe was initiated against
Indira Gandhi after the Nellie riots; there were no SITs, Supreme Court
intercessions or media trials. In 1984, as Congress goons hunted and massacred
Sikhs, Rajiv Gandhi commented that when a giant tree falls, earth shakes. It
took 25 years for the Congress to apologise. The research paper notes that the
party is still protecting Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar for their complicity.
But in the case of the 2002 riots, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narendra Modi
continued to be blamed for 11 years, the report says.

The paper records 58 major communal riots as having taken place in 47 places
since 1967, of which 10 were in South India, 12 in the East, 16 in the West and
20 in North India. The overall number of riots stood at 12,828 (South (597,)
West (3,426) East (3,581) North (5,224). Referring to 18 major (where over a 100
people died) riots, the PPRC document says 10 took place under Congress or
allies' rule; three under President's Rule (President's Rule was imposed in
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh after the Babri Masjid demolition), four under
other parties and only one under BJP rule in 2002.

"There were 1,194 communal violence incidents documented in India from 1950 to
1995. Out of these, 871 or 72.95 per cent were during Nehru, Indira and Rajiv's
PM-ship," the paper added. On the UPA's rule, the research paper says, the
"Sonia (Gandhi)-Manmohan (Singh) led UPA regime witnessed 5,921 communal
incidents causing 943 deaths."

"Congress-ruled Assam witnessed the bloodiest violence in Bodoland territorial
districts in July-August 2012... The local Bodos clashed with illegal immigrants
from Bangladesh. An estimated 97 people lost their lives... The Congress'
alliance partner Samajwadi Party-ruled Uttar Pradesh witnessed 27 incidents of
communal violence since it formed the government in the state. Among these,
three incidents were big, which occurred at Mathura, Bareilly and Faizabad," the
paper argues. Specifically referring to riots that occurred during Congress rule
in Gujarat (1950-1995), the PPRC paper notes that the state reported 244 cases
of communal violence with casualties numbering 1,601; Ahmedabad alone reported
71 incidents claiming 1,071 lives.

Sahasrabuddhe, the main architect of this document, told The Sunday Standard,
"The idea behind the research and the institute is to help the party formulate
its views. The current political discourse is skewed and does not present a
holistic picture... The discourse is biased against Gujarat, as it was clear
from (Rahul) Gandhi's recent speeches... The BJP is portrayed as an aggressor
who has done more wrongs. The research would help clear this misconception, help
functionaries and party leaders to formulate their views so that we have the
arsenal ready to influence the discourse."

Sahasrabuddhe explains that the current political discourse was media-driven.
Due to shortage of space and time, it presents only the contemporary context and
fails to present a holistic picture. PPRC is currently funded by party
affiliated trust Bharatiya Lok Kalyan Nyas. Along with him, the body has two
more board members-Nalin Kohli and Dr Sumeet Bhasin who are assisted by two
researchers.

The research institution intends to broaden its horizons and engage with
academia. It will employ interns to help in research and even assist academics
who adhere to party ideology. "Our purpose is to strengthen them so that they
should not feel alone," Sahasrabuddhe added.

The Centre was launched by former BJP president Nitin Gadkari in 2011 and
functioned out of a humble basement in Lajpat Nagar. After bringing out a series
of papers and "feeling confident" that it can become a full-fledged research
centre to help the BJP, the PPRC was re-launched last week, and shifted to its
current upmarket Subramania Bharati Marg address, a few meters away from the
world's costliest market Khan Market, which is home to many other
party-affiliated trusts.

EXCLUSIVE COVERAGE

INDIAN GRAND PRIX 2013

Exclusive galleries, interviews, gossip, and more, straight from the Buddh
International Circuit here

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            January 27, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Flare-up headache for Iemma

BYLINE: Steven Scott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 623 words


The NSW government is grappling with the aftermath of race riots, writes Steven
Scott.

NSW Premier Morris Iemma has spent the past two weeks deflecting charges that he
has been soft on Lebanese gangs who committed reprisal attacks after last
month's anti-Muslim riots at Cronulla Beach.

He has beefed up the state's riot squad and created a new Middle Eastern
organised crime unit.

NSW police also stood down a top detective for allegedly keeping secret
closed-circuit television footage showing people of Middle Eastern appearance in
a reprisal attack the night after the Cronulla riots.

Jamal Rifi, a former ethnic affairs commissioner who is now president of a
Lakemba sports association, said the Lebanese community in south-western Sydney
still backed Mr Iemma and they accepted he was just trying to strike a balance.

He also said it was OK for the Premier to call those caught on CCTV footage in
reprisal attacks "grubs".

"I don't care if he calls them 'grubs'. I'll call them grubs. They are criminals
and they should be caught," Dr Rifi said.

"This is a storm in a teacup. It's not going to damage the Premier's standing,"
he said of the media and opposition criticism.

"His standing in the community actually went higher after the Cronulla riot."

The fallout from the Cronulla riots, which forced Mr Iemma to close down some
Sydney beaches at the height of summer, has emerged as a crucial test for the
Premier just a year from the next election.

On the first day after his summer holiday, Mr Iemma paraded a newly enhanced
riot squad before journalists, saying the government was cracking down on gang
violence. The riot squad of 50 officers could be deployed at short notice to
prevent a repeat of the riots on Cronulla Beach on December 11, Mr Iemma said.
Within days, however, he was on the back foot, forced into responding to
Opposition Leader Peter Debnam's criticisms about the lack of arrests of people
who took part in reprisal attacks.

At first, Mr Iemma dismissed the allegations as ridiculous and said the police
were doing all they could to catch the suspects. But by the time it emerged that
Channel 9 had obtained CCTV footage of reprisal attacks, Mr Iemma was in a
difficult position.

Instead of defending a police decision not to release the footage while the
investigation continued, Mr Iemma ordered an internal inquiry into what he
called the "tactical decision" not to release the video and announced that
another 72 police officers would be added to the riot squad.

NSW Police Commissioner Ken Moroney, who was made an officer of the Order of
Australia yesterday, said he had not been told about the existence of the
footage.

Mr Moroney then removed acting Detective Superintendent Dennis Bray, the head of
the police unit investigating the attacks, leading to allegations of
scapegoating.

The NSW Police Association threatened to strike on the eve of Australia Day,
when Mr Iemma had already promised an enhanced police presence at beaches and
community events.

Mr Bray was reinstated, but as second in command of the unit. The police union's
demands for an apology were not met. There are concerns within the Labor Party
about the political fallout. Some claim the government has been damaged by
police errors.

"There are significant concerns about how the police have handled this," said
one Labor backbencher, who did not want to be named.

But political consultant Bruce Hawker, once chief of staff to former premier Bob
Carr, said Mr Iemma had handled the public relations crisis well.

"It's an issue that's going to be around for some time. Has it damaged his
premiership? No," Mr Hawker said.

"Provided Morris keeps telling the public what he's doing to crack down on this
lawlessness, they will give him credit for it."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fallout from the Cronulla riots last month is worrying some in
the Labor Party. Photo: ANDREW MEARES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2006 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

          The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia) (Sydney, Australia)

                            August 12, 2004 Thursday

Floundering force - EXCLUSIVE - The report the government tried to hide

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: STAVRO SOFIOS

SECTION: LOCALTABLE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 634 words


THE riot helmets fell off, the bulletproof vests were too long or too short and
the lines of communication simply fell apart.

Police were totally unprepared for the Redfern riot and even "under-appreciated
the seriousness" of it as the streets were burning, a damning internal report
reveals.

Senior officers in charge of investigating the response to the disturbance said
the poor performance showed the police force could be unequipped to handle the
aftermath of a terrorist attack.

Strike Force Coburn found police had an "inability to rapidly deploy a sizeable
contingent of [riot-trained] police to unplanned acts of violence with the
appropriate equipment".

"Redfern aside, one cannot overlook the possibility of an international incident
sparking a large scale violent response threatening public order within NSW,"
the report said.

Senior police set up Strike Force Coburn after the riot on February 15 and its
final report was delivered early last month to Police Commissioner Ken Moroney,
who has refused to make it public.

A copy was obtained by the State Opposition and released exclusively to The
Daily Telegraph yesterday.

The report found:

* FRONTLINE police didn't have access to riot gear from the Sydney Police Centre
and were left with helmets from Redfern station that should only be used for
training;

* OTHER riot gear, including helmets and shields, was old, broken and didn't fit
some officers, with many injured below the knees because shields were too short;

* FOR four hours senior police believed Operational Support Group riot police
were on their way, but a communication breakdown saw only riot gear ordered to
the scene;

* THE police helicopter should have been called in earlier to identify how many
rioters were preparing in the back streets of Redfern; and

* THE command post was set up in the wrong place and was "operationally
ineffective".

The riot was sparked by the death of teenager TJ Hickey and started early on the
Sunday night when about 70 people started throwing bricks at police who were
"initially overrun and forced to retreat".

"This report exposes the fact we have not been and are not prepared to deal with
major incidents, including terrorist attacks, and makes a mockery of the
continual assurances made by Premier Bob Carr and Police Minister Watkins that
we are ready," Opposition Leader John Brogden said.

"Senior police failed abysmally on every level to support their frontline
officers. This report would make the Keystone Kops look professional."

Senior police also feared the use of a fire hose "to defend the police position"
could expose the State Government to civil law suits because fire hoses are not
in the official police guidelines for riots.

"The current [riot] policy is inadequate in providing direction to commanders in
determining police responses to unplanned violent public disorder," the report
found.

"The level of training in the use of riot equipment by police deployed at the
incident was inadequate."

Mr Moroney has refused to release the report until after the coroner hands down
his report into TJ's death next week.

- - - - - -

BULLET PROOF VESTS:

One-size-fits-all riot vests meant a female officer couldn't reach her gun

RIOT HELMETS:

Too big and would fall off a female officer.

Helmets only suitable for training

RADIOS:

VKG radio operations didn't understand officer's distress call due to poor
training

SHIELDS:

Too short to protect officers from leg injuries and took too long to deploy

UNIFORMS:

Fire retardent overalls not available to reduce danger from flaming missiles

POLAIR:

Not called early enough and would have seen rioters gathering where police could
not see them

RIOT TRAINING:

The level of training in the use of riot equipment was "inadequate"

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Survivors Dwindle, Tulsa Confronts Past

BYLINE: By A.G. SULZBERGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1453 words


TULSA, Okla. -- With their guns firing, a mob of white men charged across the
train tracks that cut a racial border through this city. A 4-year-old boy named
Wess Young fled into the darkness with his mother and sister in search of
safety, returning the next day to discover that their once-thriving black
community had burned to the ground.

Ninety years later, Mr. Young lives not far from where he lost his home that
day. He is part of the dwindling ranks of the living who can recollect what may
be the deadliest occurrence of racial violence in United States history -- an
episode so brutal that this city, in a bout of collective amnesia that extended
more than a half-century, simply chose to forget it ever happened.

The Tulsa race riot of 1921 was rarely mentioned in history books, classrooms or
even in private. Blacks and whites alike grew into middle age unaware of what
had taken place.

Ever since the story was unearthed by historians and revealed in uncompromising
detail in a state government report a decade ago -- it estimated that up to 300
people were killed and more than 8,000 left homeless -- the black men and women
who lived through the events have watched with renewed hope as others worked for
some type of justice on their behalf.

But even as the city observed the 90th anniversary this month, the efforts to
secure recognition and compensation have produced a mixed record of success.

The riot will be taught for the first time in Tulsa public schools next year but
remains absent in many history textbooks across the United States. Civic leaders
built monuments to acknowledge the riot, including a new Reconciliation Park,
but in the wake of failed legislative and legal attempts, no payments were ever
delivered for what was lost.

Before becoming president, Barack Obama once met with some who lived through the
riot ''to thank the survivors for surviving.'' But fewer are surviving each
year; today the number is about 40. And before they die, some of their most
dedicated advocates continue to fight for greater awareness and compensation,
even as they lament that they no longer believe the effort has sufficient
momentum.

''These people are still alive,'' said Reggie Turner, who has toured the country
with the survivors, showing his film about the riot and the failed federal
lawsuit to win reparations from the city and state governments. ''And despite
their dwindling numbers -- in fact, because of their dwindling numbers -- it
should be easy for us to take care of them.''

''They are just looking for a better life as they approach death,'' he added.

Some, like Otis Clark, the oldest survivor of the riot at 108 and one of those
who joined a federal lawsuit seeking compensation, are at peace. ''God has a
whole lot of good things lined up for us when we're by his side,'' Mr. Clark
said. ''It ain't going to be very long before that is going to happen.''

Others, like Mr. Young and his wife, Cathryn, worry that their passing will
simply make the riot easier to forget. ''I think they are trying to keep this
hidden,'' Ms. Young said, referring to the white residents of Tulsa. ''Don't
talk about it, don't do nothing about it until all these people are dead. Then
they think it'll be over with. But it won't.''

All that remains of that black community of 90 years ago, Greenwood, is a block
of red-brick storefronts in a neighborhood transformed by a new minor league
ball field, a university campus and an elevated highway. Metal plaques set in
the sidewalk describe the hundreds of businesses that were there when the area
was a bustling enclave in a statutorily segregated oil town. Within the black
community, it was known as the Negro Wall Street.

Long before black neighborhoods erupted in rioting in cities across the country
during the 1960s and 1970s, a string of violent riots were started by whites in
the years after World War I. As with some of the others, the Tulsa riot seemed
to have started with the explosive accusation that a black man had sexually
assaulted a white woman. (The charges were dropped after the riot.)

On May 31, 1921, hundreds of armed white men gathered outside the courthouse
where the man was being held, and a group of armed black men arrived to prevent
a lynching. A shot was fired. The black men fled to Greenwood, and the white men
gave chase.

The battle that ensued, enabled by the Tulsa police chief, who deputized
hundreds of white men and commandeered gun shops to arm them, lasted through the
night and well into the next day.

About 40 blocks were destroyed, including 1,256 homes, many of which had been
looted before they were set alight. The death toll, most likely never to be
fully determined, was estimated in the state report at 100 to 300. Survivors
were rounded up and interned by the National Guard. Many of the homeless spent
the following year living in tents pitched in the ruins of the neighborhood.

A grand jury at the time blamed the black community for the riot. No one was
convicted of participating in the riot; no one was compensated for lost
property. Soon after, the story essentially disappeared -- buried so deeply that
people who lived their entire lives here, including prominent leaders like
mayors and district attorneys, said they had never heard of the riot until
recent decades.

Don Ross is credited with helping to break that silence. A magazine he started
published the first article in decades about the riot, written by a local
historian around the time of the 50th anniversary. But it was not until 25 years
later when Mr. Ross was a state representative that the riot garnered nationwide
attention. He pushed for the formation of the riot state commission that
produced the report and became an unrelenting advocate for payments to the
survivors because, he explained, there is ''no money in apologies.''

Since retiring, Mr. Ross has extracted himself from those efforts, believing
that neither blacks nor whites were committed to the task. He no longer even
speaks to the survivors. ''I cut that connection,'' he said. ''It was too
heartbreaking.''

The issue of payments to survivors, like those paid to the survivors of a
similar riot two years later in Rosewood, Fla., was always difficult.

The Oklahoma Legislature refused, saying it was constitutionally prohibited. The
federal courts dismissed a lawsuit on behalf of the victims, saying the statute
of limitations had expired. And efforts in Congress to remove that legal
obstacle have repeatedly failed, partly because of concerns that it might open
the door to reparations for slavery, though there are plans to reintroduce the
bill. Charles Ogletree, a Harvard law professor who represented the survivors in
the effort, called the case his ''most disappointing and heartbreaking.''

Still, awareness has been growing. Three quarters of Tulsa residents in a recent
survey described themselves as very or somewhat knowledgeable about the riot.

On a national level there is greater awareness, too. Of the three largest school
textbook publishers, one of them, Pearson, now mentions the riot in its books;
two others, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and McGraw-Hill, do not, though Houghton
Mifflin says it is planning to include the riot in future editions.

At the Greenwood Cultural Center, home to an extensive exhibit on the race riot,
Mechelle Brown, the program coordinator, walks along the wall of photos of
survivors and gestures despondently -- almost every month another one dies.

''It seems at times that this is how it's going to end,'' she said, ''with the
survivors passing.''

This year, the center lost all of its state financing, which accounted for
nearly half of its annual budget. Ms. Brown said it could be forced to close in
a matter of months. Just blocks away is John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park,
which opened last year with state backing and has several memorials to the riot.
(A center for racial reconciliation is planned for the grounds.)

But in a city still divided by those same railroad tracks, the theme of
togetherness bothers Ms. Brown, who called it premature. ''You can't forgive
until someone asks for forgiveness,'' she said.

Sitting inside the park, Julius Pegues, head of the park's board, defended the
focus on reconciliation. He worried that in continuing to dwell on the riot --
and the compensation that has not come -- the black community risked settling
into bitterness.

''If people have their heart in the right place, I think they could work out
some fair compensation for the victims of the race riots,'' Mr. Pegues said.
''But that does not seem to be the case, so I'm not going to spend my life
worrying about it.''

He added: ''We intend to take the high road and move this city forward for both
black and white.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Buildings in the black neighborhood of Greenwood burned on June
1, 1921. An estimated 300 people were killed in the riot. Below, white men with
bayonet-affixed rifles escorting black men. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TULSA HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
''THE TULSA RACE WAR OF 1921''/R. HALLIBURTON JR)
Wess Young, 94, fled with his mother and sister as armed white men rampaged
through his neighborhood in 1921. (A16)
 The Greenwood Cultural Center is home to an extensive exhibit on the race riot,
including a wall of photographs of survivors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDI SIMONS FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

Number of riot police to increase after Gezi Park protests

LENGTH: 527  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Following the recent Gezi Park protests across the country,
the National Police Department has decided to recruit more riot police and also
to provide training courses for existing riot police on how to respond to mass
demonstrations more effectively.



The protests that erupted over the government's plan to demolish Taksim's famous
Gezi Park in late May later spread to tens of cities across Turkey. During the
protests, which lasted for nearly a month, some groups of protesters clashed
with the police and shouted anti-government slogans. Millions of lira of damage
were caused to shops and other buildings located near the demonstration areas.
The lack of a satisfactory response to the protests by police has led the
National Police Department to take action. The National Police Department has
decided to increase the number of riot police units as well as to give greater
training to existing riot police officers in responding to mass demonstrations.
In addition, the police department will give riot training courses to nearly
2,000 new police officers.

However, after Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arinç claimed on July 30 through the
TRT news channel that the government had received intelligence concerning a wave
of similar protests in September and October, the National Police Department has
intensified its efforts. The police department has also decided to provide riot
training courses to specialized police officers working in counterterrorism
units and anti-smuggling and organized crime units in the cities of Ankara,
Istanbul, Bursa, Izmir and Diyarbakir.

The National Police Department has already started giving riot training courses
to 1,500 police officers and 3,500 riot police officers in Ankara. The police
officers are being instructed in mass psychology, efficient and logical methods
of intervention in social events, and the legal aspects of intervention as part
of the riot training courses. Psychological specialists also attend the courses
to train the police officers on mass psychology and effective ways to respond to
mass demonstrations without escalating tension. Additionally, the officers will
undergo special tests as part of the program. Those officers who tend to lose
their temper during the tests will be excluded from the riot program and will
not be assigned to mass demonstrations in the future.

The source within the National Police Department, who declined to be named as
civil servants had not been authorized to speak to the press, told Today's Zaman
that the problems experienced during the Gezi protests caused the police
department to question itself and raise the awareness of its officers.

A small group of environmentalists began a sit-in protest at Gezi Park in the
heart of Istanbul in late May, attempting to block the government's plan to
build an Ottoman-style barracks on the park. Following a heavy-handed police
crackdown on the peaceful protesters, thousands took to the streets and rallies
spread across Turkey. Five people, including a policeman, have died and more
than 5,000 have been injured in the clashes, according to a Turkish rights
group. (Cihan / Today's Zaman) CIHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2013 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 4, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Call for a Panel on L.A. Unrest Echoes Historical Response

Bill McAllister, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 879 words


If the government's reaction to the Los Angeles rioting follows a predictable
route, there will be a new commission to study it.

The U.S. Conference of Mayors called on President Bush and Congress Friday to
name such a commission, saying the deteriorating conditions of cities demand an
investigation not only of "the visible riots, but to stem the 'quiet riots' of
poverty and injustice in America's cities as well."

Commissions have been created after major riots hit American cities since the
East St. Louis riots of 1917. Named by presidents, governors and mayors, the
panels have become a fixture of government response to civil disorders. They
have produced a wealth of data about the causes of riots and made scores of
suggestions on how the causes can be eliminated.

But despite the data and symbolic value, the studies have failed to prevent the
recurrence of riots or resolve their underlying causes.

Commissions typically carry out "sound analysis" and produce thorough
recommendations, but their impact on the political process and effectiveness is
the subject of debate. Commission members often fail to see that their findings
are implemented, said Warren Christopher, the former deputy secretary of state
who chaired the Los Angeles commission on the L.A. Police Department and the
Rodney G. King beating.

"The monitoring and follow-through is crucial," said Christopher, who previously
served as vice chairman of the 1965 McCone Commission, appointed by then-Gov.
Edmund G. "Pat" Brown Sr. to study the Watts riots. Commission members spend so
much time drafting their conclusions that they "look to the community to salute
their fine analysis" and forget the need to follow up their recommendations,
Christopher said.

That was the same conclusion reached by a California researcher who has studied
the history of riot commissions and concluded in a 1970 book that such panels
"have persistently failed to eliminate the miseries, persecution and
exploitation of black Americans."

Two decades later, Anthony Platt, now a professor of social work at California
State University at Sacramento, said his assessments remain valid, although the
Los Angeles riots have deepened his pessimism about the country's ability to
avoid future riots. "It's a very bleak scenario," he said in an interview from
his home in Berkeley.

Platt was a member of the controversial criminology program at the University of
California at Berkeley, later disbanded by the university because of concern
about the political leanings of some of its faculty. He participated in a report
for the federal commission headed by the late Milton S. Eisenhower that
President Lyndon B. Johnson named after the 1968 riots. Platt's views about the
difficulty riot commissions have faced are shared by others who have
participated in the process.

Federal Judge A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., after serving on the Kerner Commission
in 1968, proposed a moratorium "on any additional temporary study commissions to
probe the causes of racism, or poverty, or crime or the urban crisis." What
Higginbotham, now a federal appeals court judge, said would be the rational
response "is not the appointment of more commissions to study the same problems,
but rather prompt implementation of their many valuable recommendations."

Platt said in an interview that because most commissions include politicians and
representatives of interests affected by the riots, they become "largely a . . .
device to get things back to the status quo."

Of all the commissions he reviewed, Platt gave his highest marks to the 1935
report commissioned by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia into a riot in Harlem and the
1968 federal report produced by a panel headed by former Illinois governor Otto
Kerner. Although the 1935 report was not published until Platt discovered it
during his research, he said it provides an early recognition of the
institutional causes of racism in America and the resulting roots of the anger
of black Americans.

The Kerner Commission won Platt's praise because he said it did much to make
Americans aware of the extent of racism. "For all its problems and conservatism,
it did create in the public mind the awareness that racism is a serious problem
for America."

Christopher, too, praised the work of past government commissions. Last week, he
said he spoke with a Los Angeles woman who pointed to a hospital and community
center in her south-central neighborhood as proof that the 1965 McCone
Commission had produced some concrete benefits.

"There is such a tendency to deprecate the work of a commission," Christopher
said. "On the other hand, I've often said, I lamented and kicked myself for not
following through on some of the employment and education recommendations" of
the McCone report.

Christopher said he did not know whether he would recommend creation of another
commission, as has been suggested, to study the Los Angeles riots. The
commission he recently headed was restricted to studying police brutality in the
city. Its findings helped pressure L.A. Police Chief Daryl F. Gates into
announcing his retirement.

A riot commission facing a deadline for quick action can face "a lot of
frustration," Christopher said. "Nothing can be accomplished in a few months."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, SIGNIFICANT RIOT COMMISSIONS 1917-82

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                          September 14, 2016 Wednesday

1984 Anti-Sikh riots: CBI files final report on Jagdish Tytler's involvement;
The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday submitted its final report
before the Kakardooma court concerning the role of Jagdish Tytler in the 1984
Anti-Sikh riots case.

BYLINE: FE Online

LENGTH: 276  words


The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday submitted its final report
before the Kakardooma court concerning the role of Jagdish Tytler in the 1984
Anti-Sikh riots case. The Kakardooma court is to consider the report on 28
September 2016. Earlier on September 9, the CBI had questioned Congress leader
Jagdish Tytler about his involvement in the 1984 Sikh riots. The CBI had
summoned him to re-investigate his role in the riots that happened on November
1, 1984. Reports had suggested that Tytler had been called to the CBI
headquarters and was interrogated for several hours.

Earlier, the CBI had filed a report of closure dismissing all the charges
against Tytler. Following this report, Lakhvinder Kaur, whose husband Badal
Singh was a victim of the riots had filed a petition challenging the CBI's
report. The CBI closure report had then been rejected by a court in Delhi, which
had also asked the CBI to re-investigate the involvement of Tytler in the 1984
riots referring to Abhishek Verma, arms dealer's statement that Tytler had
previously attempted to influence a witness.

The court had said that the CBI must find out if Verma's statement had any solid
ground. Arms dealer Abhishek Verma had earlier attempted to influence a witness
by offering him k=money and making promises of sending his son abroad. The 1984
Anti-Sikh riots can be linked to the assassination of former prime Minister
Indira Gandhi. The riots led to numerous cases of violence and deaths throughout
the country. The survivors of these riots have said that the nightmare continued
even after the riots as they were shifted to refugee camps, that were meant to
shelter them.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday

Police arrests members of a gang involved in Juni Ghadi riot

SECTION: VADODARA

LENGTH: 360 words


VADODARA: Did notorious members of criminal gangs in the city play a role in the
communal riots that rocked the walled city some days ago? Police arrested two
members of a gang for their involvement in riots and also took two other
gangsters into preventive custody. Though the police have been cracking down on
criminal gangs after the riots in Juni Ghadi and Nani Chhipwad area on July 18,
it has denied any direct involvement of the gangs in instigating the riots.

The police arrested Azzharuddin alias Azzu Abdul Majid Sheikh and Tausif Sheikh,
members of the Bichhu gang led by notorious criminal, Aslam Bodiyo. The cops
said both Azzu and Taufik were present in the mob when the rioting occurred in
Juni Ghadi. "Investigations showed that both of them were in the mob that began
rioting in the walled city. So we have arrested the duo and are inquiring about
involvement of others in the riots. Prima facie it seems that the duo hadn't
instigated the mob," said a police official.

City police commissioner, Satish Sharma too said the criminal gangs didn't seem
to have a direct role in the riots. "We have taken Aslam Bodiyo and his
accomplice Munna alias Tadbuch in preventive custody. Such arrests are done to
prevent further trouble and maintain peace," Sharma told TOI. Their accomplice
Rafiq Fafda too has been taken into custody.

Many more history-sheeters are expected to be arrested to prevent untoward
incidents in the communally sensitive areas. The police had earlier arrested
four persons after their names surfaced in the communal riots that occurred in
Juni Ghadi and Nani Chhipwad. Mobs of two communities had clashed with each
other during the riots that occurred after a shop-owner had heated arguments
with an autorickshaw driver in Juni Ghadi.

While the police managed to quell the riots immediately, another round of riots
began in the same area after an hour. The cops had lobbed 16 teargas shells to
disperse the rioting mob that damaged dozens of vehicles. Five separate FIRs
were registered at the city police station and it was suspected that the riots
were instigated deliberately by some persons.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Prosecutors balk at being televised in riot trials; Lawyers have privacy
concerns, but cameras may still be allowed

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 584  words


The first test case of the Crown applications to televise Stanley Cup riot
trials is expected later this month, but none of the six prosecutors assigned to
handle the cases has yet consented to being televised, the president of the B.C.
Crown Counsel Association said Wednesday.

"None of them have given their consent to be captured [by TV cameras]," Samiran
Laksh-man said of the riot prosecution team.

Prosecutors have concerns about their privacy and safety because they often deal
with violent criminals, so they are hesitant to have their faces broadcast on TV
and live-streamed over the Internet during riot trials, he explained.

"We have concerns that the court must take into account," Lakshman said.

If prosecutors don't agree to having their images broadcast, proceedings could
still be televised, with cameras positioned so the Crown lawyers aren't shown.

Lakshman said he also has concerns that legal arguments over allowing TV cameras
in court for riot-related trials will further bog down a court sys-tem already
under stress from shortages of court staff, prosecutors and Provincial Court
judges.

"The system is overloaded as it is," Lakshman said. "We are so strapped for
time, why are we adding this additional burden?"

The issue has become a political hot potato since Premier Christy Clark
announced in her throne speech last fall that she wanted to see those accused of
taking part in the June 15 riot held accountable through the broadcasting of
their trials.

The criminal justice branch, which handles criminal prosecutions in B.C., wasn't
initially thrilled with the idea.

But Attorney-General Shirley Bond ordered the Crown to apply in court to
broadcast each of the riot-related proceedings. So far, the Crown has applied in
every riot-related case to have the proceedings broad-cast, but no legal
arguments have been heard on the issue.

Defence lawyers are expected to oppose having their clients' cases publicly
broadcast.

Previous cases that were allowed to be broadcast by the judge involved consent
by the Crown and defence.

Bentley Doyle, communications director for the Trial Lawyers Association of
B.C., said he is also concerned that the applications to broadcast riot-related
cases will add further expense and delay to the court system.

"We don't want to see court time wasted," he said.

Doyle said some trial lawyers are concerned that having cam-eras in court could
prejudice a client's right to a fair trial and may affect the testimony of
witnesses, or may hinder witnesses coming forward to testify.

The first test case is expected on Jan. 19, when Sophie Laboissonniere, 20, is
expected to be the first accused to enter a plea.

She is accused of participating in a riot and looting the London Drugs store.

Months before the riot, Laboissonniere won the title of Miss Congeniality at the
Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

Many of the riot-related cases are expected to result in guilty pleas because of
the amount of video and photographic evidence gathered by citizens during the
riot.

In cases of guilty pleas, the media are expected to sup-port the Crown
application to broadcast the sentencing of the accused.

The judge will make the final decision after hearing arguments from all parties.

During the riot, police cars were burned, windows were smashed and stores were
looted, causing millions in damage to downtown Vancouver, after the Canucks lost
the Stanley Cup Final to the Boston Bruins. Up to 150,000 people gathered in
downtown Vancouver for the game.

nhall@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               December 27, 2014

With eye on Delhi elections, Rajnath Singh woos Sikhs;
Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as 'genocide', Home Minister distributes
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh to the victims

LENGTH: 501  words


Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as 'genocide', Home Minister distributes
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh to the victims

New Delhi: Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a 'genocide', Union Home
Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said several persons who had a 'role' in the
carnage are yet to be punished. "In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are
several persons who are yet to be punished. I have faith in our judicial system
and these persons will definitely get punishment," Rajnath said.



"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

Singh also distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to 17 kin of the riot victims
in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi. According to a senior government official,
enhanced compensation to 2,459 people will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots. "I want to assure that after
getting complaints through this committee, government will solve them," he said.


The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots. Singh said that he wanted to give its
credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party reacted saying the compensation cheques distributed
to the families of anti-Sikh riot victims by Union Minister Rajnath Singh in
presence of Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay were like 'giving lollipop' before
the election.

Party's Delhi convenor Ashutosh said instead of giving the cheques to just 17
families, Singh should have come out with a plan of disbursing the compensation
money to remaining victims.

"Distributing compensation money ahead of elections while the BJP state
president is on dias is nothing but a facade. The BJP is offering lollipops
ahead of elections," Ashutosh said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

As per records, 3,325 people were killed in the riots across the country. Of
them, 2,733 were killed in Delhi alone. The others victims belonged to Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,
among other states.

In 2006, the UPA government had announced a Rs.717 crore rehabilitation package
for anti-Sikh riots victims after the Nanavati Commission, which was set up to
probe the riots, submitted its report.

According to the package, an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 3.5 lakh each to the next
of kin riot victims was disbursed. Out of this only Rs. 517 crore had been spent
and the remaining Rs.200 crore could not be distributed because of dispute over
claimants.

The decision to enhance the compensation was taken just before the by-elections
were announced for three assembly seats in Delhi. The home minister gave the
credit of this step to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday

225 charge-sheeted for Muzaffarnagar riots;
60

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 523  words


Lucknow: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the UP government
has chargesheeted 225 people in connection with the September riots in
Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring areas. The SIT has chargesheeted the accused in
28 riot cases so far while 28 complainants in other cases could not be traced,
Manoj Jha, additional SP, SIT, told reporters in Muzaffarnagar. The SIT has sent
a list of 522 accused in different riot cases and asked the local police to
arrest them. Arrest warrants against 89 accused in 48 murder cases have been
issued by the court while proceedings against three accused have been initiated,
he said.

Though Additional DG (Law and Order) Mukul Goel expressed satisfaction over the
progress of the SIT's performance, a gaping hole in the investigations remains
as not even one out of the 27 accused in six rape cases have been arrested so
far. The investigating team, however, has recorded statements of all the six
victims.

Besides, no accused has been identified yet in the killing of journalist Rajesh
Verma, who was shot dead while covering the riots.

SIT sources said another setback for the investigating agency was the fact that
over 200 people named as accused in the riot cases were found to be innocent.
The SIT has had to close nine riot cases and submit its final report before a
local court in Muzaffarnagar due to lack of evidence, the sources added.

The SIT is investigating a total of 571 cases in which 6,386 people were named,
including 538 cases of Muzaffarnagar, 27 of Shamli, two of Baghpat, one of
Meerut and Saharanpur each. Over 60 people were killed and thousands rendered
homeless during the riots in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining areas in September. As
many as 50,000 people were displaced in the riots and forced to live in relief
camps. Hundreds of them are still languishing in these camps, forced to live in
sub-human conditions in the bleak winters.

The SIT had filed its first charge sheet in the Muzaffarnagar riots on November
13 against 11 accused, including BJP MLAs Suresh Rana and Bhartendu Singh, for
allegedly violating prohibitory orders, among other offences. They were sent to
jail, but later bailed out, for fomenting communal violence with their speeches.
They were also alleged to have engineered distribution of CDs with gory scenes
of communal violence.

SIT sources said the charge sheet was filed in court against the 11 accused
under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from
discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public
servant) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC, besides seven
criminal acts.

Later, in December, the Special Investigation Team filed two more charge sheets
against three accused in the riots case. The charge sheet against 13 more
accused in these cases could not be filed as they were absconding.

Crime file

28 Number of riot cases registered

89 Accused who face arrest warrants

6 Number of rape cases registered

522 accused booked in different riot cases

48 Number of murder cases registered

27 Number of accused arrested in rape cases

60 Number of people killed in the riots

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              This Is Local London

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Most read articles of 2011: London riot coverage dominates

SECTION: LONDONNEWS

LENGTH: 247 words


Live coverage of the London riots dominated the top 10 list of most read
articles of 2011 on This is Local London.

The minute-by-minute blogs, supplied by sister publications News Shopper and
Croydon Guardian put readers 'at the scene' with on-the-ground reporting,
eyewitness accounts, plus the latest pictures and video from the riots.

A breaking story about the shooting of Tottenham's Mark Duggan, which sparked
the riots, was the overall most read article of the year.

The top 10 most read articles on This is Local London for 2011 were:

Tottenham Hale man was shot by firearms officers after arrest attemptLondon
riots - live blogLondon's most dangerous streets revealedLIVE: Riots in Croydon
Rmours of Kingston riot unfoundedFlagship ordered to stay moored in Richmond
UPDATES: Bromley riotsElmbridge Youth Theatre to perform life of Richard Rodgers
Former boxing champ killed in cycle crashMP calls for calm after Tottenham
shooting

The top 5 most tweeted articles on the site for 2011 were:

Video of racist tirade on tram goes viralMental health trust reforms legacy of
artist's suicideCharity plans 12,000 new trees in ThamesmeadSnow forecast across
the region todayMother's plea for help with autistic son answered

The top 5 most shared articles on Facebook for 2011 were:

Dale Farm eviction: Live updatesBasildon firefighters pelted with stones while
tackling blazeDisorder hits south Essex overnightSouthend men held in Spain
accused of attempted murderPaedophile caged for 13 years

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

English rioters warn of more to come

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 706 words

ABSTRACT

Four out of five participants in summer unrest think there will be a repeat,
with most believing poverty to be a factor

FULL TEXT

An overwhelming majority of people interviewed about their involvement in this
summer's riots believe they will be repeated and one in three said they would
take part in any future disorder, a study by the Guardian and the London School
of Economics shows.

Of the 270 questioned in the Reading the Riots study, 81% said they believed the
disturbances that spread across England in August "would happen again".
Two-thirds predicted there would be more riots before the end of 2014.

Despite more than 4,000 riot-related arrests, and harsher than average sentences
in the courts, many of those interviewed said they did not regret their actions.

The research project, which is the only study to involve interviews with
hundreds of people who rioted across England, found they were predominantly from
the country's most deprived areas. The downturn in the economy featured heavily
in interviews, with many complaining of falling living standards and worsening
employment prospects.

The findings come just a week after the chancellor, George Osborne, reduced
economic growth forecasts, increased government borrowing and said austerity
measures would be extended to 2017. The Office for Budget Responsibility is
predicting 710,000 public sector job losses in the next six years.

Those questioned as part of the study were pessimistic about the future, with
29% disagreeing with the statement "life is full of opportunities" - compared
with 13% among the population at large. Eighty-five percent said poverty was an
"important" or "very important" factor in causing the riots. The general
population largely agreed, with 68% saying poverty was a significant cause of
the summer unrest.

In the aftermath of the August riots, the prime minister was quick to dismiss
the idea that poverty was a factor in the disorder. "These riots were not about
poverty," David Cameron said. "That insults the millions of people who, whatever
the hardship, would never dream of making others suffer like this." However,
last week the independent panel Cameron set up to take evidence from victims of
the riots concluded that poverty was an important factor.

It found that more than half of those who had appeared in court proceedings
relating to the riots had come from the most deprived 20% of areas in Britain.
The report added to a growing body of evidence about the poverty and alienation
that characterised those who took part in the England riots.

Only 51% of rioters interviewed by the Guardian/LSE said they felt "part of
British society" - compared with 92% of the wider population.

Many said they were angry about perceived social and economic injustice,
complaining about lack of jobs, benefits cuts and the closure of youth services.
Just under half of those interviewed were students, and younger interviewees
often expressed frustration over the increase in tuition fees and the scrapping
of the education maintenance allowance.

Overall, the rioters questioned had lower levels of educational attainment, with
a third of adults educated to GCSE level and one-fifth having no educational
qualifications at all. Interviews with rioters typically took place in or near
some of England's most deprived estates.

Government data reveals that two-fifths of the young people who have appeared in
court in connection with the riots were receiving free school meals - a key
indicator of deprivation. Two-thirds have been identified as having special
education needs - a proportion three times higher than for the population as
whole.

For many of those not in education, unemployment was the norm among the rioters
who were interviewed. They repeatedly complained about their struggle to find
work - with some even saying they sought out and looted shops that had rejected
their job applications.

Last week it emerged there are now more than a million unemployed young people
in the UK. Youth unemployment - defined as the number of 16 to 24-year-olds not
in education, employment or training - currently stands at 21%.

Fifty-nine percent of the rioters interviewed in the study who were of working
age and not in education were unemployed.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

1984 riot victims yet to get flats in Mohali

BYLINE: Diljot Singh

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 436 words


MOHALI: The 1984 anti-Sikh riots had displaced thousands of families, many of
whom are now settled in Mohali. Thirty years on, several victims are still
struggling to get a home.

The Punjab and Haryana high court on February 21 had directed the Mohali
authorities, including Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and the
deputy commissioner, to decide on the allotment of houses and booths to the
victims in three months. A week ago, Manjeet Singh, a riot victim, along with
others, had approached GMADA chief administrator AK Sinha, and filed a
representation on giving them possession of the flats at the earliest. Manjeet,
along with other victims, had filed a petition in the high court in 2011,
seeking allotment of the flats, plots and booths, as per the policy framed on
September 29, 2011, for the riot victims.

In 2011, the court had asked the affected families to approach the authorities
concerned for flats, plots and booths. The riot victims filed more than 42
petitions in the court, alleging that the authorities were negligent, and that
the state was taking no action. Jaswinder Singh, president of the riot victims'
association, said: "Of the over 2,000 families living in Mohali district who
were displaced by the riots, less than 600 have got flats. We have approached
almost every office in the district but in vain."

"In 2006, GMADA had issued a letter to the DC, saying 919
houses/flats/commercial sites had been allotted to the riot victims. But for
every allotment, there are discrepancies in documents, and the allotted sites
are still not fully in their possession," added Jaswinder. In March 2013, the
high court, on a petition filed by riot victim Gurmeet Singh, had asked Punjab
to give flats to those affected.

LEGAL POSITION

The sites to be allotted in Mohali were flats/plots/booths/commercial sites in
sectors 68, 70, 66, phase1, X, and Sector 57, among others.

GMADA estate officer Mahesh Kumar Bansal said: "There are some houses which are
occupied by riot victims which belong to someone else. We cannot allot the
property of someone else to the illegal occupants. About 20 riot victims had
approached us, and we are scrutinizing their documents, and then the files will
be sent to the DC TPS Sidhu who will make the final decision."

Bansal too had stated that the authorities had allotted the various sites to the
riot victims as per the guidelines of the law. "If someone illegally occupies a
locked flat or the house of someone else who had gone for vacation or got
transferred, then when the original occupier comes back, he will sue us."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Immigration failed to heed signs leading up to riots

BYLINE: Kirsty Needham IMMIGRATION CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words


THE Immigration Department was explicitly warned by a consultants' report that a
serious incident would occur on Christmas Island because of severe overcrowding
five months before riots broke out, an independent inquiry has found. The
inquiry, by former public servants Allan Hawke and Helen Williams, into the
Christmas Island and Villawood riots found the failure of the department to
brief the Immigration Minister, Chris Bowen, on the warning until March 2011 was
"highly regrettable". Their report, released yesterday, described conditions on
Christmas Island before the riots as "severely compromised" - with failing
sewerage systems, supply of water "precarious", and access to toilets and
education under stress. Detainee numbers had leapt to more than 6000, with 2530
on the island.

Knowledge Consulting warned in October 2010 that safety was compromised,
accommodation was not fit for purpose, staff shortages had affected intelligence
gathering, and detainees had no meaningful activities to distract them. A freeze
on processing Sri Lankan and Afghan asylum claims the previous year had caused a
significant backlog. The Hawke and Williams inquiry found that adding to this
mix was an influx of middle-class Iranian asylum seekers who had higher
expectations of service and lower tolerance for delays in decision making or
"failure to achieve a positive result". Riots on Christmas Island sparked on
March 11 caused $2.5 million in damage, while riots at Villawood a month later
cost $6 million. Serco, the private company that runs the detention network, was
warned of the planned mass escape and riot on Christmas Island four days in
advance, but a teleconference with the Immigration Department in Canberra
dismissed an informant's warning and there was no request for extra police. The
report blamed both riots in part on the detention network's inability to manage
a core group of asylum seekers who had been rejected as refugees. It said 80 of
the 100 detainees identified as taking part in the Christmas Island riot had
received an initial rejection of their refugee claim and were waiting for a
review. Thirteen of the 19 charged over the riots had been rejected as refugees
at the first interview. All nine charged over the Villawood riot had received a
negative initial decision. Mr Hawke and Ms Williams also called for a revision
of terms of the contract with Serco to improve security and better co-ordination
with police forces. Mr Bowen said: "This is not necessarily about the time taken
for processing, not about the conditions in detention but about the number of
people in immigration detention who had been rejected." The opposition spokesman
on immigration, Scott Morrison, said the government's shift to bridging visas
meant the rioters had received what they wanted. Mr Bowen said there has been a
35 per cent reduction in the detainee population since that time, and a 60 per
cent cut on Christmas Island. However, boat arrivals this month have returned to
the levels that led to the 2010 overcrowding, following the High Court ban on
the Malaysia refugee swap.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Public points to U.K. to slam riot response;
Quick action over unrest by British authorities prompts deluge of letters to
Public Safety Ministry questioning lengthy legal process

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; JUSTICE; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


As the British riots spread and those accused of assault, looting or arson were
quickly hauled into court, the B.C. government was bombarded by e-mails asking
why its justice system couldn't do the same.

The provincial Public Safety Ministry has released a Freedom of Information
request that details possible relevance between the August riots in Britain and
June's Stanley Cup riot. The 51-page document is mostly composed of letters from
the public that disapprove of B.C.'s plodding legal response to a hockey riot
that left millions of dollars in damage.

"What is being done about all the so called arrests pertaining to the Vancouver
Riots?" one person wrote. "London seems to be much more active in arresting &
charging rioters and their riots just happened. If we let this go it will happen
again."

Wrote another: "I am ashamed of our justice system."

The riots in Britain began August 6, two days after police shot and killed
father of four Mark Duggan in Tottenham. The mayhem lasted five days and reached
London, along with several other cities.

On Aug. 17, London police charged their 1,000th suspect.

The Vancouver investigation, however, languished. In B.C., police must make
charge recommendations and then forward their files to the Crown for approval.
Vancouver police forwarded eight files to the Crown days after the riot, but
those cases were sent back to the force because they were incomplete.

It took another four months for Vancouver police to send any more files to the
Crown. Sixty files were forwarded on Oct. 31.

The delay did not sit well with those who e-mailed the province looking for
answers.

"The failure to show people that violence has consequences and to do so within a
reasonable time is unfortunate," one person wrote. "Not all charges can be
processed fast but surely some could be."

As London police were announcing their 1,000th charge, Vancouver police were
defending the absence of charges in their investigation.

"If you are in favour of speed, you are in favour of more acquittals and lighter
sentences," Vancouver Chief Jim Chu said Aug. 17.

When reached for comment on the Freedom of Information request Monday, a police
department spokesman said the chief stands by his earlier remarks.

Chief Chu was joined at the August news conference by Staff Sergeant Lee
Patterson, another Vancouver officer who said there was little similarity
between the two riots. London police have the authority to lay charges on their
own, and Staff Sgt. Patterson, who previously worked in Britain, said the
British capital also has more officers at its disposal - and many of its
neighbourhoods are watched by CCTV cameras.

Vancouver police announced Dec. 19 that the force has recommended charges
against another 20 suspected rioters and forwarded those files to the Crown. The
department has recommended 215 charges against 80 individuals in all.

The Crown has approved charges against 28 alleged rioters. The first batch of
people charged with participating in the riot began appearing in court Dec. 14.
None have been convicted.

One day after the riot, Premier Christy Clark promised to expose rioters to the
public's gaze. "You won't be able to live in anonymity, you won't be behind your
bandana or under your hoodie," she said.

Many of those who e-mailed the province received a form response from
Solicitor-General Shirley Bond, though the letter provided little detail.

Ms. Bond turned down an interview request Monday and instead e-mailed a
statement.

"I think all British Columbians were disappointed by the events of June 15, and
that is reflected in these public comments," she wrote. "... In December, we saw
the start of the trial process for the first eight accused and prosecutions will
continue as criminal charges are approved by the Crown. This is a major
undertaking for all agencies involved and I know they share British Columbians'
concern that rioters are held accountable for their actions."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            February 11, 2008 Monday

Recognition of race riot only proper

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words


SPRINGFIELD is a town steeped in history. Our local economy relies heavily on
it, and the historic importance of our town has always been a point of pride.

Yet for decades, visitors to Springfield would learn nothing of an important yet
not so proud chapter in this city's history. The August 1908 race riot here is
historic far beyond the mere recollection of the two days of violence that left
seven people dead. The fact that the riot happened in the hometown of Abraham
Lincoln elevated its significance at the time. The fact that it led to the
creation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
elevates it from locally to nationally historic today.

The $300,000 state grant awarded last week for a sculpture by noted artist
Preston Jackson to commemorate the riot may have been the greatest step to date
toward giving the Springfield race riot the recognition it has long deserved.

EQUALLY significant is the placement of Jackson's work - to be unveiled in
October - in Union Square Park, a place heavily traveled by visitors as they
begin their journeys through Springfield's Lincoln sites. There, it is sure to
be seen by people who previously had no knowledge of the Springfield race riot
or its role in the start of the NAACP.

For a town that so revels in its connections to history, Springfield has never
had an easy relationship with the race riot. Unlike Lincoln, whose presence here
unites us, the race riot has always been divisive. Its discussion can quickly
polarize almost any group, especially along racial lines. As we approach its
centennial, we are certain to hear from those who would rather see it simply
fade into the forgotten past.

Yet history does not give us that luxury, nor should we seek it. This community
will only benefit from the interest and open discussion of the race riot
Jackson's work will surely generate.

SPRINGFIELD was hardly unique in having had a race riot. Many American towns
did. Such was the nature of post-Civil War race relations in America. What makes
Springfield's unique is that it occurred just blocks from the place where, 50
years and two months earlier, Lincoln delivered his House Divided Speech - one
of the most significant speeches in abolition history. Springfield may have been
proud to be the hometown and final resting place of the man who freed the
slaves, but racial attitudes of the day prevailed over Lincoln's message in
1908.

That we are finally recognizing this event in such a public fashion shows how
far we have come. That it surely will continue to be a polarizing topic shows
how far we have yet to go.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bill would ban wearing masks during riots

BYLINE: Robert Hiltz, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 278  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A private member's bill to ban the use of masks in a riot is set to see its
first round of debate in the House of Commons today.

The bill comes as Vancouver police are handing out posters to try to round up a
number of suspects they say participated in June's Stanley Cup riots.

Alberta Conservative MP Blake Richards says his bill - dubbed the Preventing
Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act
- is an attempt to prevent violence in the streets by making it illegal to wear
a disguise while an individual is part of a riot.

When a riot starts, he said, "there's so much going that police have a very
difficult time to identify who these people are. This just gives (police)
another tool to make an arrest of someone who is clearly in a riot situation:
they're disguising themselves, they've obviously got an intention to do
something that they don't want to be identified when they are doing it."

Richards' bill would amend Sections 65 and 66 of the Criminal Code, which
outline the penalties for participating in a riot or unlawful assembly. As the
law stands now, Sections 65 and 66 state that participation in a riot could lead
to two years behind bars. If the private member's bill is passed, wearing a mask
and taking part in a riot would increase that jail term to five years.

According to the code, an unlawful assembly is defined as a gathering of three
or more people with a common purpose out to cause a disturbance, or incite
others to do so.

Richards said his bill would allow police to pick up rioters - such as the Black
Bloc protesters during the G20 summit in Toronto last year - before they are
able to cause trouble.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Blake Richards;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Oxford Mail

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Witney man helped train extras as riot police in latest Jason Bourne movie

BYLINE: Luke Sproule

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


WHEN all hell breaks loose in a dramatic riot in the latest Jason Bourne movie
most viewers will not know there is an Oxfordshire man behind the on-screen
violence.

Former paratrooper Paul Biddiss spent last summer in Tenerife training Spanish
extras to act as riot police in Jason Bourne, the fifth film in the Bourne
series.

The married dad-of-five from Witney also worked with the film's star Matt Damon,
with the pair spending time in the gym together during filming.

Mr Biddiss, who served in the Parachute Regiment for 24 years before leaving as
a sergeant in December 2012, began his career in film after giving advice to
George Clooney for a battle scene in The Monuments Men.

Most recently he was recruited for Jason Bourne to provide expertise on riots in
Greece.

The Witney resident said: "I had to co-ordinate the riot and give advice on what
guys were doing in different situations.

"The extras played the role perfectly.

"There was a write-up of the film in the Los Angeles Times from a journalist who
had been in the Greek riots and he said it was the most realistic depiction he
had seen on the big screen.

"I have been involved in riots in Northern Ireland and that is what I was able
to bring into it."

Before heading to work on Jason Bourne Mr Biddiss had worked on BBC One's
historical drama War and Peace, which aired at the start of the year.

He said his attention to detail allowed him to make the switch from the
Napoleonic era to modern times.

The 47-year-old said: "It is 60 per cent research and the remainder is your own
experience.

"I did my research on the Greek riots, both the riot police and the riots
themselves.

"You build it up from a very simple lesson in how to conduct something and
learning some Greek phrases to putting the full riots on.

"It can be tricky though, I have just finished another film called the Death of
Stalin.

"Sometimes the Government wants to keep things secret and that makes research
more difficult."

Mr Biddiss has also worked on Mission Impossible Rogue Nation and Second World
War action drama Fury, which featured Brad Pitt.

He is currently working on superhero film Justice League which is due for
release next year.

He said: "When you are training people who have a different language you have to
get your information across.

"But after two or three days they know what I am after and I can train them.

"They are all from an extras company and they go to a psychological assessment
because we cannot afford someone to just go off on one during a riot scene."

So far Mr Biddiss' time as a military advisor has seen him work with Hollywood
stars and travel the globe working on some of the biggest box office
blockbusters.

But in spite of his success he has no desire to get in front of the camera.

He said: "They wanted me to be in Jason Bourne but I said no.

"I do not enjoy that side of it, it is better not to.

"You need to be on the director's shoulders."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

Riots in the time of YouTube;
dna looks at the allegation that people in Muzaffarnagar were driven to savagery
with the use of social media

BYLINE: Harini Calamur

LENGTH: 373  words


In Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, two young men knifed another man who was
stalking a woman. The stalker's family lynched the two. And before you could say
"what happened" there was a full blown communal riot that claimed 38 lives.

The army has got called out to restore order. It is alleged by political parties
of all hues and shades that the riots were caused not by people intent on
killing each other, but by a video on youtube that showed, in graphic detail,
the lynching of the two young men. Except that the video was not of this
particular incident in Muzaffarnagar, but of a similar incident in Pakistan a
few years ago. This is not the first time that doctored pictures and doctored
YouTube videos have been used to inflame passions.

Fake videos and photoshopped images of the violence in Burma towards Rohingya
Muslims caused a backlash across various parts of the world, including India.

Similar tactics were used during the Assam riots last year. As always, the call
is to get politicians not to shoot off their mouths before they see evidence,
but to curtail social media because, the logic goes, that 90% of India who have
no access to social media will get outraged by seeing inflammatory, disparaging
and obscene picture and video content on computers and smart phones they don't
possess, and spontaneously burst into riots.

If you think that Indian politicians are the only ones subscribing to this
logic, you would be wrong. The Turkish PM laid his troubles at the door of
social media, so has the Brazilian government. Even the British Police blamed
the power of social media in fanning the London Riots.

But, to blame the tool (social media) for riots is to mistake the wood for the
trees. It gives administrators a convenient way out for their reading and
mishandling of the situation. There was no youtube or social media during the
Partition, or during the 1984 riots. The internet was at a nascent stage during
the 1992 riots, and social media, as we know it, at a fledgling stage during the
2002 riots.

Then as now, it is people who caused riots, people who make inflammatory
speeches and people who kill other people. Putting those who cause and
participate in riots in prison is the solution, not curtailing social media.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Anger grows against city hall, polls find;
Mayor Gregor Robertson says he doesn't expect riot to be factor in municipal
election, but opponent Suzanne Anton disagrees

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


With a municipal election six weeks away and a new poll suggesting more and more
Vancouverites are blaming city hall for the Stanley Cup riot, Mayor Gregor
Robertson says he's convinced voters will focus on the city's long-term health
instead of the events of June 15.

NRG Research Group and Peak Communicators released a survey Wednesday that found
the level of riot-related blame directed at the city increased 16 per cent
between June and September. The companies surveyed 400 Vancouver residents over
the phone between Sept. 22 and Sept. 25, following up on a similar poll they
conducted one week after the riot.

B.C.'s civic elections will be held Nov. 19, but Mr. Robertson doesn't expect
the riot to determine who will win the Vancouver mayoralty.

"I'm convinced that this election's going to be more about affordable housing,
about a good transportation network here in Vancouver and around the region,
that people really do care about those issues in this city," he told reporters.
"Events like the riot, they're important times, we need to work through them,
learn from them, but I'm very hopeful that people will see the bigger picture
here and the long-term health of the city as being fundamental."

Suzanne Anton, Mr. Robertson's mayoral opponent, had a different perspective.
She said everywhere she goes people want to talk about the riot that left
millions of dollars in damages.

"It will absolutely have an impact on the election of Nov. 19," Ms. Anton said.

The survey's respondents rated different organizations and groups on their level
of responsibility for the riot. Scores were measured on a scale of 0 to 10, with
zero meaning the group was not at all responsible, and 10 meaning the group was
totally responsible.

The city had an average score of 4.9 in June, but jumped to 5.7 in September.

"We would assume these changing numbers reflect the findings of the Vancouver
riot report and the ongoing news coverage that has taken place on the riots over
the summer months," said Tim Chan, NRG's associate vice-president.

In June, 24 per cent of respondents gave the city a score between 8 and 10. In
September, that number rose to 33 per cent.

The city wasn't the only organization to see its level of blame increase
substantially. The local police department's responsibility rating also rose by
16 per cent, to an average score of 5.1. The force declined to discuss the poll.

The highest level of blame was reserved for the rioters themselves. They
received an average score of 8.6.

When asked about the reliability of the poll, Mr. Chan stood by the findings.

"We do telephone polling and telephone polling is really the only way to get a
representative sample of residents," he said. "It's proven to be the best
methodology to do this. The margin of error is plus or minus 5 per cent, 19
times out of 20. It is a sufficient and representative sample that we have."

Mr. Chan said the companies could have surveyed more people to reduce the margin
of error, but felt 400 "was sufficient for this particular poll."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't get the term 'riot' confused with social disturbance

BYLINE: Samantha Pegg

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 577 words


IN August the terms "riots" and "rioters" were on everyone's lips as
disturbances erupted in London and later flared up around the country.

Despite our readiness to term these outbreaks of disorder "riots", the charges
that have been brought against individuals involved in disturbances have
principally been theft, criminal damage, violent disorder and arson.

Although the term riot is readily used in the media, it has a very precise legal
meaning set out in section 1 of the Public Order Act 1986.

For the offence to be committed there must be a gathering of 12 or more people
who intend to use or threaten to use unlawful violence, including violence
toward persons and property, in private or in public and in pursuance of a
common purpose.

The conduct of them (together) must cause a person of reasonable firmness to
fear for his or her safety, although no such person need be present.

Where members of a riotous gathering are not using violence but only threaten
the use of it, they may be acquitted of the offence, although they continue to
form part of the riotous gathering and count toward the 12 people the legal
definition demands.

Despite this requirement, those who threaten violence may still be encouraging
the commissioning of the offence and incur liability as joint principles. One
question this raises is why the law should require so precise a number of people
to constitute a riot.

Prior to the 1986 Act, enacted in response to various disturbances in the 1980s,
a riot was more loosely defined in common law as a group of three or more people
seeking to disturb the public peace.

Today a violent gathering of fewer than 12 but more than two with the same
intentions and provoking the same response in a reasonable person will be
legally termed a violent disorder.

Both riot and violent disorder (and the less serious offence of affray, which
can be committed by a single person) seek to prevent a particular mischief -
that of members of the public fearing for their safety when going about their
business. The Public Order Act had sought to clarify the law by providing what
is often termed in law a "ladder of offences" with riot at the apex as the most
serious form of public disorder.

By setting the number of participants at 12, the offence is set to deal with the
most serious forms of public disorder and should be reserved for the most severe
incidences of violent disturbances. Riot is not only a difficult offence to
evidentially substantiate but is a very serious offence carrying a maximum
sentence of ten years, the same maximum sentence as offences such as sexual
assault and threats to kill.

In reflection of its seriousness, an offence of riot can only be tried in the
Crown Court and a prosecution can only be commenced by the Director of Public
Prosecutions or with his consent.

It appears likely that the reports of gangs of people involved in the
disturbances in Nottingham in August may not have reached the magical number of
12 with a common purpose.

Consequently, charging the participants with lesser offences, including violent
disorder, may have been the more legally correct response.

In truth when we speak of the "riot convictions", we are confusing the legal
terminology of riot with its social usage.

While many have been convicted of offences connected to violent disturbances, it
has not yet been legally proven that any of these incidences were riots.

Riot... is a very serious offence carrying a maximum ten year sentence

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                        July 3, 1992, Friday, 1* EDITION

Penticton rioter gets reduced jail sentence

BYLINE: LARRY STILL; VANSUN

SECTION:  Pg. B4

LENGTH: 370 words


The B.C. Court of Appeal has ruled a provincial court judge was too hard on a
youth sentenced to 11 months in jail for his part in a riot in Penticton last
summer.

Justice David Hinds, with Justice Brian Carrothers in agreement, reduced George
Glenn Loewen's sentence to six months and said he must perform 150 hours of
community work service.

In sentencing Loewen in January, provincial court Judge Gale Sinclair
acknowledged his own role as a member of the community.

Saying he didn't sentence according to the whims of city hall, the police or the
public, the judge added: "On the other hand, I cannot, as a citizen of this
community, ignore the obvious effect (the riot) had on the community and its
citizens."

During the riot on July 17, 1991, cans and rocks were thrown at police and
property damage was estimated at $ 189,000. Eight police officers were injured,
some seriously, and 11 police vehicles were damaged.

During the sentence appeal, prosecutor Alexander Budlovsky suggested persons who
participate in a riot, a rare offence, should receive severe sentences to deter
others from similar conduct.

If the courts don't maintain a hard line, he said, the alternative is heavier
policing at additional cost to communities.

The Appeal Court, noting the growing incidence of riots in the inner cities of
North America, said the Penticton riot was preceded in earlier years by similar
rioting at the Kelowna Regatta.

"This is not the time for unwarranted leniency nor by the same token for
unwarranted severity," said Hinds. "Care must be taken at the same time to
preserve the message of general deterrence.

"A riot is, by its very nature, a serious threat to orderly society. If riots
become prevalent, they will undermine many of the values of a free and
democratic society."

Having said that, the court noted Loewen, unlike others convicted in the
Penticton riots, did not assault the police. He caused damage to property and he
encouraged others to take part in the riot.

The court stressed that its decision in the Loewen case will not necessarily
apply to other convicted rioters - their sentences ranged from 12 to 18 months -
whose appeals have not yet been heard.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Naroda Patia massacre verdict dents Narendra Modi's PM hopes

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 538 words


NEW DELHI: The conviction of his former minister Maya Kodnani has brought the
Gujarat riot trial at the Narendra Modi government's doorstep, undercutting the
CM's effort to project a "secular" image as a prop for his prime ministerial
aspirations.

Modi made Kodnani a minister after his landslide win in 2002 elections in
defiance of rampant allegations of her involvement in the Naroda-Patia massacre
earlier that year. Kodnani was retained as minister and remained part of the
ministerial team till the SIT chargesheet forced her to resign.

Given the background, the verdict of the trial court re-ignited memories of the
post-Godhra anti-Muslim violence of 2002 and the attendant accusation of the
state government's failure, setting back his effort to de-emphasize what is seen
by many as the defining feature of his reign with a "let-us-move-on" message. It
threatens to take away from the relief Modi received when SIT concluded there is
insufficient evidence to prosecute him for involvement in communal riots.

BJP on Wednesday challenged the argument that Kodnani's conviction is a
confirmation of the charge of the Modi regime's complicity in riots, saying she
was not a minister when the communal violence broke out. The reasoning is right
only in the technical sense.

Politically speaking, it is not going to wash with those who in any case
consider Modi to be a radioactive material because of the riots. Bihar CM Nitish
Kumar has made an early commitment from the BJP not to project Modi for PM a
pre-condition for continuing in the NDA.

The verdict can only strengthen Kumar's arguments, nullifying any hope that
Modi's third straight win in assembly polls and a growing anti-Congress mood may
allow BJP to persist with ambivalence on the leadership question.

BJP was conspicuously low key in response to the verdict with the otherwise
vocal spokespersons trying to argue that the development was part of an ongoing
legal process.

"We don't want to politicize the judicial process... this is the first court, it
is a judicial process, it will go on," said party spokesperson Prakash
Javadekar.

He further said the riot-convict had resigned immediately after the chargesheet
was filed, unlike as happens in Congress. Asked whether her involvement in the
riots shows complicity of the Gujarat government, he said, "I don't think so".

Javadekar, however, kept referring to the 1984 riots in Delhi and the recent
lower Assam violence as both happened during Congress regimes in respective
states. He did so while mentioning the Gujarat riots that happened under Modi's
chief ministership to say that "any riot or killing should be condemned and the
guilty should be punished."

"Whether is anti-Sikh riots of 1984, or the Maharashtra, Assam or Gujarat riots,
it is unfortunate and a blot on the face of the nation. Any level of
condemnation for any riot is insufficient. We have always criticized the Godhra
incident and Gujarat riots, that is our stand," Javadekar said.

Another party leader Tarun Vijay said that the party respected the judicial
process. "We have full trust in the judicial system of the country. Challenging
court decisions on road is the nature of Congress, not BJP," Vijay said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             March 4, 1995 Saturday

MINISTER 'INTERFERED' IN RIOT

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: KOCH A

LENGTH: 672 words


KEYWORD-HIT Minister "interfered' in riot Court told of 10-hour delay By TONY
KOCH A RIOT at a youth detention centre raged for 10 hours until Family Services
Minister Anne Warner ordered it stopped, it has been alleged. Officers then took
just 10 minutes to quell the riot, former Westbrook Detention Centre youth
worker Layton Hemming said in evidence to Toowoomba District Court. By then the
rioters had ""smashed everything and set fire to buildings". Ms Warner yesterday
denied allegations that she had personally taken control of the riot on March 20
last year at the centre, near Toowoomba. The riot left a $1.4 mil lion damages
bill and resulted in the centre being closed. The evidence was given in
affidavits to Judge Warren Howell who on Thursday urged that eight former staff
be paid up to a total of $65,000 for the loss of their jobs and the stress
caused by the riot. Judge Howell said he could not understand why the riot had
not been quelled earlier by a riot squad which had been assembled for hours. In
his statement to the court, Mr Hemming said the riot began at 7.30pm but centre
manager Mick Shearer had said no action was to be taken until Ms Warner arrived.
Ms Warner arrived by helicopter at 11pm while the rioters were ""screaming and
smashing things and were really crazy from sniffing solvents". Mr Hemming said
that after an hour he was told by centre deputy manager Geoff Schultz that the
Minister wanted to use negotiators. ""I told Geoff Schultz that we had very good
negotiators on the Westbrook staff and that they had tried to negotiate without
any success and that we had to go in there," the affidavit said. ""Geoff Schultz
told me that he agreed but that nevertheless we could not go in until the
Minister gave the go-ahead. ""At some stage a youth worker, Ron Herschell, who
has a stentorian voice, yelled out to the effect that if someone doesn't do
something one of these boys is going to be killed. ""After this occurred, the
Minister then gave the go ahead to go in and stop the riot." Mr Hemming said it
took just 10 minutes for the rioters to be subdued after the order was given. He
said that at a debriefing staff were extremely angry because they had no
back-up. He said staff had no riot training and there were only three sets of
handcuffs in the complex. Ms Warner yesterday said the allegations were not
correct and she went to the riot only to give a moral support to the staff and
to field media questions. She said she would never interfere in operational
matters and in fact had expected the dog squad to have been sent in by the time
she arrived at the centre. Last March, Ms Warner told Parliament that an
investigation after the riot had found an appalling level of physical abuse of
boys by the staff, and extreme verbal abuse. But Judge Howell said he did not
think the community could have the slightest appreciation of just how much
nastiness there was in the group of rioting youths. ""They have not the
slightest fear or worry of punishment," Judge Howell said. ""Coming to court is
a chance for them to show off and be undisciplined again. ""This particularly
nasty group of people taunted the warders in insulting gutter language, taunted
them to assault them in the hope there would be a charge against the youth
worker. ""Whenever they stepped out of line in a place in which the very
cornerstone was to be discipline, instead of being punished they would be
rewarded," he said. Opposition Family Services spokesman Brian Littleproud, who
has maintained since last March that Ms Warner acted inappropriately in
attending the riot, said an apology should be made to the youth workers who were
wrongly accused of being at fault. He said Ms Warner should resign now as the
evidence to the court _ and Judge Howell's comments _ proved beyond any doubt
that her ""interference" put lives at risk and saw the damage bill escalate to
$1.4 mil lion, as the rioters were allowed to continue unhindered. FLASHBACK to
the riot at Westbrook last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1995 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riots have 'made life harder and damaged our prospects'

BYLINE: Kaya Burgess

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 415 words


Young people across Britain are still feeling a backlash from the riots last
summer, while many in worst-hit areas feel their communities have not recovered
from the violence, a survey has found.

Two thirds of 16 to 25-year-olds nationwide believe that the August riots have
damaged young people's prospects, while more than 20 per cent of youths surveyed
by the Prince's Trust in riot-affected London boroughs felt that their areas
still bore scars of the unrest. The survey also compared the responses of young
people in riot-affected areas with the national average, and found that a lower
proportion of those in affected boroughs believed they had a positive adult role
model, or a strong support network around them. Also, 49 per cent of young
people in riot-hit areas said that they "never" or only "sometimes" felt
hopeful, compared with 39 per cent nationally.

The trust's research, which was conducted two months ago, with the results
released yesterday to The Times, also found that almost half of the 2,136 young
people questioned believed that the riots had made life harder for the
worst-off, widening the gap between advantaged and disadvantaged people in their
areas.

One young person that The Times spoke to felt that there were some positives
from the riots, however. Kishanth Javegar, 20, lives near Clapham Junction,
where looting and fires broke out around the high street, including in the
Debenhams store where he works parttime.

He said: "I feel like we are a lot closer community in Clapham Junction after so
many people came out to help clear up and write positive messages on the
boarded-up shop windows. Hopefully not everyone is narrow-minded enough to see
all young people in the same way as the violent minority."

The majority of the 3,000 people arrested as a result of the riots were under
25, and the final tally of damage repair and insurance claims is expected to
cost more than £100 million.

The Department for Communities and Local Government declined to comment on the
survey findings, but pointed towards plans announced by David Cameron to target
"troubled families" as evidence that the Government was making efforts to deal
with the aftermath of the riots.

Paul Brown, a Prince's Trust spokesman, said: "The research shows that many
young people have not forgotten [the] riots and may still be feeling the impact.
At the Prince's Trust, we know the vast majority of young people were not
involved in criminal activity, but many feel more vulnerable than ever."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kishanth Javegar: "I feel we are a lot closer community"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

Prepared for the worst, hoping for the best

BYLINE: YAAKOV LAPPIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1030 words


There appears to be no concrete intelligence pointing to a likelihood of violent
mass riots erupting after the Palestinian Authority submits its request to the
UN General Assembly for statehood recognition in September, but the Israel
Police has nevertheless been quietly preparing for the worst-case scenario.

Over the past several months, planners at the police's Operations Branch at
national headquarters in Jerusalem - headed by Cmdr. Nissim Mor, an experienced
bomb squad officer - have been watching incidents of mass violence around the
world, from the destruction and looting in London to the events taking place in
the Arab world, in order to study how small events can quickly snowball into
major incidents.

After months of preparation, evaluation and training, senior commanders believe
the police force is now ready for any scenario involving an outbreak of violence
linked to the Palestinian statehood bid.

The majority of contingency planning is based around Jerusalem, though plans are
also in place for mixed Arab-Jewish cities and known flash points in the North
and South.

The planning does not reflect any prior intelligence, but simply a need to be
prepared for all possibilities.

Following the October 2000 Israeli Arab riots in the North, during which 13
rioters were shot dead by police - a response that police brass today recognize
as a major failure - police have set up 16 special command centers around the
country that are specifically tasked with training and mobilizing riot police,
and ensuring that disturbances are quelled swiftly, without the use of lethal
force.

Each command center is in charge of 300 officers, creating a national response
force of 4,800 officers ready to deal with large-scale disturbances. During
quiet times, these officers carry out their daily duties, and take part in
special training courses. During flare ups, they are sent in to quell riots.

The riot police are backed up by a further 2,000 officers who are currently
being trained as a reserve anti-riot force.

As soon as police planners conclude that an incident has the potential to turn
into a large-scale riot, large numbers of officers will be mobilized to the
scene to prevent the incident from spiraling out of control.

To that end, the Operations Branch has set up a special body, headed by
Lt.-Cmdr. Meir Ben-Yishai, which has drawn up scenarios and training programs.

Planners at the Operations Branch believe riot police should be well armed with
non-lethal crowd dispersal means and receive good protection, including horses,
vests, shields and helmets, to increase their sense of security. The more secure
an officer feels, they believe, the less likely the officer is to resort to
lethal force in a riot situation. Such measures have also been called for by the
Or Commission, which was set up to investigate what went wrong in the October
2000 riots.

The police's Technological Development has therefore developed a number of new
crowd-dispersal means to add to the usual measures of tear gas, water cannons
and stun grenades.

New non-lethal weapons include the "Skunk" liquid, which lets off a repulsive
smell and sends rioters scattering. The liquid has been used effectively in
Bil'in in recent years, and has decreased injuries among police caused by
stone-throwing. There is, however, a ban on using it in holy places, to protect
the sensibilities of worshipers.

Another means is the "Shout" system, which broadcasts an unbearable sound and
causes rioters to run for cover with their hands over their ears, but does not
injure them in any way.

Mor distinguishes between local and national incidents, and has drawn up police
responses to fit each category.

In any major national incident, police brass will take control of the
decision-making process, and the full arsenal of anti-riot equipment will be put
to use.

"Unlike Syria, where the army deals with riots, in Israel, as a democratic and
liberal country, the police are responsible for coping with disturbances. Even
in places where the IDF is sovereign, when a public order event unfolds, like
the disengagement from Gaza, the Israel Police leads the mission and not the
army," Mor recently told the Marot Hamishtara (Police Views) magazine, an
internal police publication.

Since the jurisdictions of the IDF, the police and the Shin Bet (Israel Security
Agency) can overlap, it is worthwhile to define the term "police jurisdiction."

According to the accepted norm, the IDF has full operational sovereignty along
the country's borders, and is responsible for dealing with any threat emerging
from beyond the national frontiers. But the moment a national security incident
unfolds within the country, the police take charge of the response in the
affected area.

Hence, while the air force is responsible for dealing with rocket fire on the
South from Gaza, it is the police who track down the site of a rocket impact
zone inside the country and manage the scene.

The same working model applies to responses to mass rioting situations. During
Nakba Day in May, the IDF was tasked with stopping Syrian Palestinians from
crossing the border on the Golan Heights, and police rounded up those who had
succeeded in entering. The police also arrived in large numbers at the village
of Majdal Shams to end rock-throwing at soldiers by local residents.

"The police are supposed to be the IDF's support [in border areas]. We must be
ready to deal with those who cross borders, and with local residents, too," Mor
said.

This working arrangement is also in place in areas situated near the Green Line.

In the West Bank, Judea and Samaria Police operate in Area C, where Israel
retains full security control and where settlements are located. Area B is
jointly policed by Judea and Samaria and Palestinian police, while Area A, where
the large Palestinian cities are located, is off-limits to police.

In the meantime, the police's preparations have drawn to a close, and the
Operations Branch is now on alert for the first sign of an incident that could
trigger larger events.

Though police officers are still allowed to go on leave, they have been asked by
their commanders not to leave the country in September, just in case.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LAW & ORDER. As the Palestinians' planned statehood bid in September
looms, 7,000 specially trained riot police are on standby in the event of major
violence in Israel and along the Green Line; non-lethal dispersal means like
'Skunk' liquid and high-pitched sound frequencies are ready for use

GRAPHIC: Photo: POLICE HAVE been studying incidents of mass violence around the
world to study how small events can snowball into major incidents. (Credit:
Israel Police)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             August 15, 2008 Friday

Urban storm warning;
To avoid this kind of unrest, Toronto must find ways to empower youth in poor
areas

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. AA06

LENGTH: 1096 words


Two years ago, I wrote an article for Canada's premier hip-hop culture magazine,
POUND, arguing that it was not a matter of if but of when urban riots led by
poor youth would erupt in Canadian cities.

The riots that shook Montreal North on Sunday night leave me with no sense of
self-satisfaction about a prediction come true, but rather with a sense of
obligation to once again urge our very own city to take action before Toronto
shares Montreal's fate.

Although some details of the incident are still unclear, police were attempting
to make an arrest during a "routine intervention" in Henri Bourassa Park on
Saturday when they were surrounded by up to 20 youths. Police say a number of
youths broke off from the pack and charged the officers. It was then that one
officer opened fire on three young people. One of them, 18-year-old Fredy
Villanueva, later died in hospital from his wounds.

The community expressed its anger in a well-attended and peaceful demonstration
on Sunday afternoon. As the demonstration concluded, reports say a few
protestors torched cars parked outside the local fire station. Propane tank
fireballs, Molotov cocktails and gunfire followed as local youths took to the
streets in rioting that caused damage to local businesses and shocked residents
of the working-class neighbourhood.

Sunday's riot may have been small-scale in comparison to the mass insurrections
launched by French youth in 2005, but policy-makers and the Canadian public
would be remiss to think that the urban riot belongs solely to the poor French
suburbs known as banlieues or the black ghettos in the United States.

As the respected urban historian Michael B. Katz noted in his recent address to
the Urban History Association: "Poverty, inequality, chronic joblessness,
segregation, police violence, ethnic transition, a frayed safety net" are "the
combustible ensemble of elements" of the urban riot.

And as report after report has made clear, from the United Way and the Toronto
City Summit Alliance to York and the University of Toronto's urban institutes,
that "combustible ensemble of elements" is increasingly present in our city.

Not that Toronto has been immune from such unrest in the past. The so-called
Yonge St. mini-riot of 1992 is often framed as a copycat case influenced by the
Los Angeles riots that followed the acquittal of four white police officers in
the brutal beating of African-American Rodney King. Yet, as the Stephen Lewis
report revealed, tensions between Toronto's black community and the police were
long-standing and had been brought to a head with the acquittal of two white
Peel Regional police officers involved in the 1988 shooting death of black
teenager Michael Wade Lawson - the more likely spark for the Yonge St. unrest.

Urban riots in working-class and racialized communities like Montreal North are
expressions of anger at police tactics, high rates of joblessness and poverty,
and a government that appears unwilling to address the grievances of these
communities.

An instance of police violence is often what brings the simmer of frustration to
a raging boil. The historical precedents for what happened in Montreal are
numerous. In the U.K., urban riots in the predominantly black Liverpool district
of Toxteth in 1981 followed an incident of police brutality. Similar events
occurred in the London neighbourhood of Brixton that same year and again in
1985. The Wolverhampton, Coventry and Birmingham riots, also in 1985, were all
sparked by acts of police misconduct toward black or South Asian youth.

When Miami police were implicated in the death of an African-American man in
1980, the so-called "Liberty City Riots" involved some of the worst urban unrest
seen in the U.S. since the late 1960s. Brixton erupted again in 1995 when a
black youth died in police custody. In 2001, riots in Cincinnati followed the
death of 19-year old Timothy Thomas, a black male who was gunned down by a white
police officer during an on-foot pursuit.

In 2005, riots erupted in close to 300 cities and towns across France after
police chased two youths of colour into a power station where they were
electrocuted and later died. France erupted again in 2007 after two youths were
killed in a collision with a police cruiser.

The young people who populate these neighbourhoods, "urban outcasts" as
sociologist Loic Wacquant has called them, do not engage in this violence
irrationally. They often target symbols of governments they feel have failed
them. It could be police, a community centre or a fire station.

Wacquant, a University of California at Berkeley academic, has done important
work in this area. In a recent talk, he concluded that the French riots were a
more effective political tool for socio-economically marginalized communities
than voting in the three previous elections. A dangerous proposition, but one he
backs up empirically. After successive governments had cut social supports, the
French government responded to the 2005 riots with a cash infusion of 100
million euros to social programs and the education system; 100,000 fellowships
for students in designated "sensitive urban areas"; 5,000 teaching assistants to
schools in France's poorest urban neighbourhoods; 20,000 publicly subsidized
jobs targeted to these same neighbourhoods; an immediate increase in welfare
rates; and a doubling of the number of social workers geared toward immigrant
settlement.

This is not to say riots are politics - but they are political. Politics in
contemporary society involves channelling popular discontents into the
legitimate avenues of social and political reform, such as political parties,
social movements and the courts.

Rioters ignore the niceties of polite political practice, but they can and do
shape relations of power between the government and the governed nonetheless.

As Martin Luther King once said, "a riot is at bottom the language of the
unheard."

When ignored and marginalized, the urban riot becomes a voice for the voiceless,
however reactionary and destructive these events may seem. If Toronto wants to
avoid the fate of cities in the U.K., the U.S., France, and now Quebec, it needs
to find ways to empower youth in our most politically and socially marginalized
communities. Setting up a dialogue that would allow youth to express their
legitimate grievances with Toronto's police force, without fear of further
stigmatization or reprisal, would be a small step in the right direction.

Simon Black is a researcher at York University's City Institute and visiting
Fulbright fellow at the City University of New York.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  David Boily the canadian press A riot squad officer walks near a
burning car in Montreal after a riot broke out Sunday in the area where a young
man was shot on Saturday by police.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

150 Inmates Involved in Prison Riot, 2 Remain Hospitalized

BYLINE: Sam Cohen and Teri Cox, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


Dec. 08--FOLSOM -- More than 150 maximum-security inmates were involved in
Wednesday's riot at the California State prison in Folsom; 11 inmates were
injured.

Only two inmates remain hospitalized Thursday, the rest were treated for minor
injuries and released. They had various stabbing and gunshot wounds. None of the
guards were injured by the prisoners, but one did go to the hospital due to
breathing problems caused by the pepper spray.

The riot happened around 12:30 in the afternoon in the main exercise yard at
California State Prison-Sacramento, also known as the new Folsom Prison. The
riot lasted about ten minutes.

When asked if 10 minutes was long for a prison riot, Dept. of Corrections' Sgt.
Tony Quinn said it's "extremely long."

More than 400 staff members and officers responded to the riot. Officers used
pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under control.

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Two tower guards fired those rounds. Tower guards are the only guards allowed to
use such ammunition.

Quinn told FOX40 that three inmates were hit with the lethal rounds, but their
conditions are unknown.

Officials found five weapons used by the inmates hidden in the yard. A more
thorough, "grid" search was done Thursday morning.

The facility will remain on lockdown, pending the investigation, but Quinn said
that shouldn't affect visitors. The facility is only open to visitors during the
weekend.

Officials at the prison told FOX40 there was also a smaller riot on Monday. No
weapons were used.

All inmates involved in the riot will be charged.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.

___ (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at
www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111208-5KT-150-Inmates-Involved-in-Prison-Riot
-2-Remain-Hospitalized-1208-20111208

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

1984 anti-Sikh riots case: Court relied on Sajjan Kumar's peace march picture
with Rajiv Gandhi

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 555 words


NEW DELHI: Congress leader sajjan Kumar, acquitted earlier this week in a 1984
anti-Sikh riots case, told the trial court that he had provided relief to the
victims and had also participated in a peace march with then Prime Minister
Rajiv Gandhi in Delhi's riot-affected areas.

Kumar's defence has been mentioned in Tuesday's judgment that acquitted him of
all charges of conspiracy and abetting the riots. Kumar attached copies of
newspaper reports that carried pictures of him and Gandhi taking part in a peace
rally in riot-affected areas on November 2, 1984.

"It is submitted that Kumar participated in the peace march which had been taken
up in riot affected area and Hindus and Sikhs participated in the peace march
and the same was highlighted in newspaper reports. Kumar appears with his
photograph in one such newspaper report with the then appointed Prime Minister
Rajiv Gandhi and that newspaper report is of November 2, 1984, published on
November 3, 1984," the court judgment has noted.

Kumar told the court that he had provided relief by donating blood for Sikh
victims. "It is submitted that Kumar had rather participated in the reliefs
provided to the victims and one such participation by Congress leader sajjan
Kumar, acquitted earlier this week in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, told the
trial court that he had provided relief to the victims and had also participated
in a peace march with then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in Delhi's riot-affected
areas.

Kumar's defence has been mentioned in Tuesday's judgment that acquitted him of
all charges of conspiracy and abetting the riots. Kumar attached copies of
newspaper reports that carried pictures of him and Gandhi taking part in a peace
rally in riot-affected areas on November 2, 1984.

"It is submitted that Kumar participated in the peace march which had been taken
up in riot affected area and Hindus and Sikhs participated in the peace march
and the same was highlighted in newspaper reports. Kumar appears with his
photograph in one such newspaper report with the then appointed Prime Minister
Rajiv Gandhi and that newspaper report is of November 2, 1984, published on
November 3, 1984," the court judgment has noted.

Kumar told the court that he had provided relief by donating blood for Sikh
victims. "It is submitted that Kumar had rather participated in the reliefs
provided to the victims and one such participation by accused was even in a
blood donation camp and to that effect name of Kumar appeared as among persons
who donated blood wherein many other persons were Sikhs," the judgment mentions,
recording the detailed arguments made by Kumar's defence counsels during the
three-year trial.

Kumar also told the court that the riots were a result of "sudden public
outburst" after the killing of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and not a criminal
conspiracy.

"It is argued that incidents of present case and other such riots in city were
an outcome of some people of a criminal and bad character nature having taken
advantage of the situation and indulged in widespread crimes and it could not be
termed to be a situation that these incidents were outcome of a criminal
conspiracy. It appeared to be a sudden outburst of public at large," the court
judgment says, noting the arguments made by the defence counsel of Kumar.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Criminals and anarchists' blamed for Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: James Keller, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 804  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The chaos that swept downtown Vancouver after the Canucks' Stanley Cup loss was
the work of "criminals and anarchists" who came prepared for trouble, the city's
police chief said Thursday, as he faced questions about why the postgame riot
spiralled out of control so quickly and lasted for so long.

The mayhem caused millions of dollars in damage and looting to downtown
businesses, at least 150 injuries, including nine police officers, and left a
black eye on a city that became an international star when it hosted the Winter
Olympics last year.

Chief Jim Chu insisted his police force planned for the worst-case scenario, and
when that scenario became a reality, officers in riot gear and on horseback
responded. He credited the force for bringing the riot under control in three
hours.

But faced with a crowd of tens of thousands packed into the downtown core, Chu
said hundreds of officers tasked with controlling the crowds were quickly
overwhelmed and unable to wade into the fray.

"Those criminals and anarchists hide behind the large numbers of people who
wanted to watch the game," Chu told reporters in Vancouver.

"When there's a large number of criminals and anarchists that have a common
purpose and intend to break the law, it's very difficult to stop that."

Nearly 100 people were arrested Wednesday night, said Chu, and police were
inviting the public to submit photos and videos of the mayhem to help them round
up more.

The riot appeared to begin in a city-organized celebration site overflowing with
fans watching the game on giant outdoor TV screens, as they had throughout the
Stanley Cup series. In the dying minutes of the third period, with the Canucks
down 4-0, some in the crowd tipped over a car and set it on fire.

The violence quickly spread. Over the next several hours, a total of 15 cars,
including two police cruisers, were set ablaze.

Windows were smashed along busy Granville Street and looters streamed into large
department stores to emerge with high-end fashion accessories, clothing and
makeup.

At the peak of chaos, police officers were noticeably absent. Blocks away,
officers in riot gear slowly marched from intersection to intersection, firing
canisters of choking tear gas along the way.

Chu said those officers were acting according to plan, focusing on securing the
downtown bit by bit, and then holding the ground they gained.

"The objective is to deploy in groups in a strategic manner. If the officers
went to every hot spot, the riot would have continued for much longer than it
did," said Chu, adding that officers were deployed throughout the Vancouver area
until the riot began, when they were sent downtown.

"In hindsight, if we knew what would happen, we would have had more police
officers deployed there, but we didn't know that. We have to look at the whole
region in terms of any problems breaking out."

Vancouver police officials pointed the finger at a band of troublemakers who
came downtown prepared for violence. Hockey fans, police have said, may have
been watching, even egging the rioters on, but they weren't the source of the
problem.

"These were people who came equipped with masks, goggles and gasoline, even fire
extinguishers that they would use as weapons," Chu said, while acknowledging
others joined in.

"What we do see in some situation is the hard-core people that have the
premeditated intent to commit those criminal acts, and we have people on the
fringes, Hey, if a big riot breaks out, we'll join in,' so we do have that."

Riots followed the Canucks' 1994 Stanley Cup loss as well, but last year's
Winter Olympics were went off nearly without a hitch.

The '94 riots caused $1 million in damage, leaving 200 people injured and
leading to charges against more than 150 people. Chu said there were about three
times as many rioters out Wednesday than in 1994, but he said lessons learned in
the past 17 years saw police bring the riot under control in half the time.

During last year's Winter Games, there were relatively few problems in the
street parties that overtook downtown Vancouver, with the exception of an
anti-Olympic protest that turned ugly when an anarchist group called the Black
Bloc smashed windows and splashed paint on storefronts. Their efforts to ignite
the crowd fizzled after a few blocks and a few smashed windows.

"We recognize some of those same criminals (involved in Wednesday's riots) as
those who took part in the vandalism during the Winter Olympics," said Chu.

Bob Whitelaw, who was hired by the provincial government to examine the 1994
Stanley Cup riot, said Wednesday night's riot was worse, and he was critical of
the police response.

At the Bay's flagship store, which had been looted in the riot, someone tacked a
rough, hand-painted sign that read: "On behalf of my team and my city, I am
sorry." People waited in line to sign it.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A car burns behind a police officer in Vancouver during a riot that
broke out after the Vancouver Canucks were defeated by the Boston Bruins in the
Stanley Cup final on Wednesday night. Darryl Dyck, THE CANADIAN PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

84 riots were sponsored by Cong at the behest of Gandhi family: BJP

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 11 -- BJP today alleged that the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in which
Jagdish Tytler is facing charges were "sponsored" by the Congress at the behest
of the Gandhi family and sought to know why the ruling party has been silent on
the issue for the last 28 years.

The main Opposition also said there are no similarities between the 1984
"massacre" and the 2002 post-Godhra riots and claimed that prompt action was
taken by the government in the latter case.

"We welcome the court decision to reopen the case against Congress leader
Jagdish Tytler in the 1984 anti-Sikh massacre.

He is a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee and even contested
the 2004 elections. The riots were actually a Congresssponsored massacre of the
Sikhs," BJP spokesperson Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters.

She claimed that the riots, allegedly involving some Congress leaders including
Tytler, had the support of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and his family.

"Rajiv Gandhi had said (after Indira Gandhi's assassination) that when a big
tree falls the earth shakes. No statement has come from the family even after 28
years. Why are they silent? If there had been any sensitivity in the family they
would have apologised," she said.

Other than Tytler, Congress leaders H K L Bhagat, Dharam Das Shastri, Sajjan
Kumar and Kamal Nath have been named by various committees which have probed the
1984 riots, according to the BJP.

The party insisted that the anti-Sikh riots cannot be compared to 2002 Gujarat
riots.

"In 2002 it was a riot. I would not justify it for even a minute.

But the administration responded by calling in the army. In 1984, it was a
onesided massacre. People were not allowed to lodge an FIR.

Army was deployed in Delhi only on the third day and in other places only on the
fourth day," Sitharaman said.

Sitharaman quoted from various commissions and committees which have probed the
1984 riots and claimed that Congress leaders and workers had incited or helped
mobs in attacking Sikhs.

"Even as the news of the unfortunate death of the Prime Minister (Indira Gandhi)
spread, Congress leaders were distributing voters' list and ration cards among
themselves to single out Sikhs," she said, adding that houses were branded as
was done by Nazi forces against Jews during the World War.

She said the government of the day was so "insensitive" that small businessmen
whose property was damaged in the anti-Sikh riots were not given insurance
cover.

"Nanavati Commission has observed that despite the curfew, mobs indulging in
violence were moving freely and committing acts of looting and killing,"
Sitharaman said.

The party did not spare Prime Minister Manmohan Singh either and said though he
had expressed regret in Parliament over the riots, no action was taken.

"I hate to say this but Singh belongs to the community which was targeted. For
him to just call it a tragedy is not enough," Sitharaman said.

Asked how Tytler can be held responsible for the riots when the matter is still
subjudice just as BJP leader Amit Shah is facing charges in the fake encounter
cases, she insisted that in Shah's case the CBI has been misused.

"The government has misused the CBI to hit out at a minister who was popular,"
she said.

The alleged dubious role of the CBI in the 1984 riot probe also came under
Opposition attack with the BJP saying it had given a clean chit to Tytler.

"It is mention-worthy that the chief who gave the clean chit to Tytler in March
2009 is today rewarded for his service with a gubernatorial post," Sitharaman
said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business
Daily. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Rahul wants systemic change

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 28 -- But refuses to get drawn into Modi, corruption, inflation
debate

In his first media interview in a decade, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi
on Monday called for transforming the system of governance and blamed the
BJP-led Gujarat Government for the 2002 riots, but avoided specific answers to a
host of uncomfortable questions, including need for an apology or regret for the
1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Rahul's thrust was the empowerment of women and youth, something he kept going
back repeatedly when he was asked to comment on the culpability of Ashok Chavan
in the Adarsh scam or his views on Arvind Kejriwal or a direct debate with BJP's
prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi in the run up to the Lok Sabha polls.

Those who expected Rahul to use the Times Now interview to take an aggressive
posturing against Modi would be disappointed. Rahul did hold the Modi Government
responsible for the Gujarat riots while he defended the role of the Congress
regime in 1984 anti-Sikh pogrom. But he didn't attack Modi beyond this point.

Pointing out that Modi was the CM when the Gujarat riots happened, Rahul said,
"What all I am saying is that in Gujarat the Government of the time aided and
abetted the riots while in 1984 the day of Government did every bit to avoid."

When asked if he agreed with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's view that Modi
presided over the "mass massacre" of innocents on the streets of Ahmedabad,
Rahul said, "What the Prime Minister is saying is the fact. Gujarat happened and
people died."

When asked further on the role of Modi in the riots, Rahul said, "Modi was the
Chief Minister then."

When pressed further on how he could attack Modi on the Gujarat riots when
courts and SIT have given him a clean chit, Rahul said, "It is not me. It is a
large number of people who saw the government of Gujarat being involved in the
riots. I mean, people saw it. I am not the person who saw it. Your colleagues
saw it. Your colleagues told me. They saw the administration actively attacking
the minorities."

To persistent questioning on the role of the Congressmen in the 1984 riots,
Rahul admitted that some Congressmen were probably involved in the 1984 riots
and said legal process was on against them.

However, despite repeated questioning on whether he would express regret or
apology for the 1984 riots, Rahul refused to give specific answers and stuck to
his point that loss of innocent lives are painful and horrific. "I wasn't
involved in the riots at all. It wasn't that I was a part of it," he added at
length.

On asked if he was not named the Congress PM nominee because of fear that his
party will lose the elections, Rahul delved into the past, talked about death of
his grandmother Indira Gandhi and his father Rajiv Gandhi and said he had seen
so much adversity that he had nothing to fear.

"I saw my father combating the system on daily basis. I saw him die. I saw my
grandmother die. There is nothing I fear any more. I've seen the worst," he
said.

To a question as to what was his view on the BJP's prime ministerial candidate,
he said, "I think, we will defeat the BJP in the next elections....I will win
the election. I am reasonably confident."

On asked again about his views on Modi, Rahul said he was not thinking of
anything, but changing the system and unleashing the power of people. "I'm
focussed on that and I am not thinking anything else."

Asked if he would take responsibility if the Congress didn't win the election,
he said, "If we don't win, I am the vice-president of the party. I will take
responsibility."

On naming Modi as PM candidate, he said, "BJP believes in concentration of power
in one person. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe in democracy. I
believe in opening of the system.... We have fundamentally different
philosophies."

On a question about whether he was open to PM's post or avoiding a difficult
contest against Modi, Rahul referred to his AICC speech and said announcing a PM
candidate before an election is "announcing your PM without asking your MPs. It
is not actually written in the Constitution. We don't believe in breaking the
tradition and system."

He also avoided direct reply to questions on whether political parties should be
brought under the purview of RTI, saying Parliament should decide on it if
political parties are unanimous on this. "My position is that the more openness,
the better."

Throughout the interview, Rahul devoted much of the time talking about how the
present system was a burden on the people, how people suffered because of it,
how there was pressing need to empower women and youth, and how democracy must
be more representative.

Even when confronted with questions why no action was taken against Ashok Chavan
and Himachal CM Virbhdra Singh despite serious corruption charges against them,
Rahul against talked about putting in place a system which did not allow any
corrupt person to get off scot free. However, he avoided specific answer on why
his words and action did not match in these cases.

Rahul avoided any direct reply to what he thought of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind
Kejriwal, but acknowledged that the AAP had shown how to reach out to people.

On a question, Rahul said he was against the concept of dynasty in politics but
felt that dynasty cannot be wished away in a closed system. "I am absolutely
against the concept of dynasty. Anybody who knows me knows that and understands
that. But you are not going to wish away dynasty in a closed system. You have to
open the system," he said.

The Congress V-P said dynasty or children of politicians becoming powerful
happens in the BJP, the DMK, the SP and the Congress. "It happens everywhere,"
he said. Asked how Congress was then different, he said, "You have to go into
why this is happening.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav claims assistance worth Rs 115 crore to
Muzzafarnagar riot victims

LENGTH: 290  words


Muzzafarnagar: Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh visited the Muzzafarnagar
riot victims on Sunday.

It was his first visit to the district after communal riots which killed several
people hit the city almost 7 months ago.

The motive of his visit ahead of Lok Sabha elections on April 10 was clear. He
was seeking the support of people of Muzzafarnagar.

He said that SP will emerge as the largest party and the third front will form
the government. Also, he appealed the people to vote for SP candidate Virender
Singh.

Addressing a rally in the district Yadav claimed that Rs 115 crore was spent on
the assistance given to victims of deadly communal riots.

At the same time he also attacked Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi alleging
that he did not spent a single penny for riot victims of 2002.

With the SP government under attack for handling of communal riots that left
over 60 people dead and thousands homeless, Mulayam claimed the administration
had successfully controlled the violence in two days.

"SP government provided an assistance of Rs 115 crore to riot victims. Such a
big amount was never distributed as relief to riot victims in the country.
Gujarat government led by Modi had not given a single rupee to the riot victims
but UP government has distributed relief amount to riot victims without any
discrimination," the former UP chief minister said.

Referring to the Sachchar committee report, he said that Mulims are economically
backward and the state government had planned various welfare schemes for them.

He claimed that Samajwadi party would win more than 50% of the 80 seats in Uttar
Pradesh.

The SP leader said Muslims and farmers had been ignored in the country and they
needed a helping hand to improve their condition.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Stanley Cup rioter 'ashamed' by actions;
First person to plead guilty for taking part in June chaos apologizes in court -
but not on Riot TV

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; COURTS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


"Ashamed and deeply embarrassed" by what he did the night of the Stanley Cup
riot - acts that have the Crown pushing for more than 18 months in jail - the
first person to plead guilty to participating in the June event admitted his
mistake.

He did it far away from the cameras, one day after the provincial court ruled
against the government's attempt to broadcast riot-related proceedings. That
loss prompted the government to suddenly pull the plug on a promise that had
come to be dubbed Riot TV.

On Tuesday, however, Premier Christy Clark vowed to continue on with efforts to
open up the courts.

Ryan Dickinson pleaded guilty last month to one count of participating in a riot
and one count of breach of recognizance. Two counts of mischief over $5,000 were
dropped as a result of his plea deal.

The 20-year-old's name made headlines in recent weeks after the Crown, on order
of Premier Christy Clark and Attorney-General Shirley Bond, pushed for his
sentencing to be broadcast. The Crown dismissed that application Monday.

Tuesday, during sentencing, Mr. Dickinson's lawyer read out a letter his client
prepared for the court.

"I'm sorry for my unexplainable actions that took place during the Stanley Cup
riot," the letter read. "I'm ashamed and deeply embarrassed. I was caught up in
the moment. I made some very bad decisions that day and I'm going to take full
responsibility for my actions."

Mr. Dickinson's case is unique from the nearly four dozen other people who've
been charged in connection with the riot.

The riot broke out after the hometown Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup
final. Many of those charged have no criminal record. Mr. Dickinson, however,
has a previous conviction for an assault in which he kicked a man in the head.
He served 10 days in jail as a result and was under curfew the night of the riot
.

What impact his sentence will have on other rioters remains to be seen. But the
Crown, characterizing Mr. Dickinson as "an angry young man" with a pattern of
troubling behaviour, asked that the Coquitlam resident serve 15 to 18 months on
the riot count, and an additional one to three months on the breach of
recognizance count.

Mr. Dickinson has been in custody since Dec. 8. Because his case was delayed by
the broadcast application, prosecutor Patti Tomasson suggested he receive
one-and-a-half times credit for time served. Eric Warren, Mr. Dickinson's
lawyer, agreed.

However, Mr. Warren argued his client's overall sentence should be no more than
one year. He disputed Ms. Tomasson's claim that Mr. Dickinson was one of the
instigators of the riot and repeated his client's stance that he got caught up
in the moment.

Having seen footage of Mr. Dickinson throwing newspaper boxes at unmarked police
cars and store windows, Judge Malcolm MacLean shot back: "That moment went on
for some time, though."

Mr. Warren said his client has not been involved in any untoward activity since
the riot and is hoping the incident helps turn his life around.

Judge MacLean, saying he had a lot of material to consider, told the court he
would issue his decision Thursday.

The morning after the riot, which left $3.7-million in damages, the Premier
vowed to expose those involved to public view. In October, the government used
the Throne Speech to call for broadcast proceedings for anyone charged in the
riot.

That comment drew fire from some lawyers, who accused the Premier of trying to
publicly shame people who hadn't been convicted. Ms. Clark then finessed her
message, to say she was simply trying to make the courts more accessible to the
public. She repeated that point Tuesday.

"I think it's an idea whose time has come," Ms. Clark said. "We are going to
have to find ways to try to get there."

She would not say that her approach was wrong, but said it became clear pursuing
the broadcast applications would have led to case delays.

With a report from Justine Hunter

in Victoria

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outbursts in court as six are found guilty of rioting;
Riots 2011: night of violence that shocked the city ; A jury yesterday returned
verdicts on seven people charged with rioting on the night a city police station
was set on fire. Legal Affairs Correspondent Rebecca Sherdley reports

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 893 words


THE twelve men and women had deliberated for 18 long hours. But when they
returned, they unanimously convicted six people of rioting in Nottingham city
centre last summer. The trial at Nottingham Crown Court followed multiple
arrests over an attack on Canning Circus police station just before 10pm on
August 9 last year. Witnesses described seeing 40 to 50 youths, some armed with
weapons, damaging property and vehicles. Four people were wearing
similar-looking bandanas, the court heard.

Afterwards, the scene was described by one witness as "like a war zone".

The first man to be convicted yesterday was 25-year-old Lance Francis.

He looked stunned as he was found guilty of riot, arson with intent to endanger
life, and perverting the course of justice. He held his head in his hands as the
verdicts against him were announced, saying, "I didn't do it. I didn't do
nothing."

A woman turned to people in court as she got up and left, saying, "I hope you're
happy".

Another woman in the public gallery was ordered by the judge to leave the court
when she shouted out an obscenity as 22-year-old Shaundre Robinson was convicted
of riot.

The others found guilty of riot yesterday were 20-year-old Gregory Coleman;
20-year-old-Callum Powell; and two boys, aged 16 and 17, who cannot be named for
legal reasons.

A seventh defendant, Roxwell Yeboah, 34, of Wolsely Road, Radford, was cleared
unanimously of riot and violent disorder. Judge Michael Stokes QC, Recorder of
Nottingham, thanked the jury, who have sat on the case for more than a month.

He said to them: "You have plainly considered the matter with intense care."

The defendants will now be sentenced with ten others who have pleaded guilty in
the case. Last month six other men admitted riot and four others pleaded guilty
to violent disorder.

The media had previously been able to report that these were involved in the
disorder, but not what charges they had admitted.

Today the case against these ten will be opened and mitigated in court. Fourteen
of the 16 will then be sentenced together tomorrow. Reports have to be prepared
on the two youths convicted yesterday, and they will be sentenced at a later
date.

After the hearing, Assistant Chief Constable Paul Broadbent said: "The bravery
shown and effort of all my officers and staff involved in protecting the public
and preventing further damage, violence and disorder during the disturbances was
second to none.

"The reaction from the public in terms of their support was phenomenal. People
in Nottinghamshire took a stand against the small number of mindless individuals
who didn't show any regard for anyone else."

Guilty: The 16 who brought a night of mayhem to city streets Ashton Alexander,
19, from Radford Road, New Basford, admitted riot when he appeared in court on
April 17.

Lance Francis, 25, of no fixed address, was found guilty of riot, arson with
intent to endanger life, and perverting the course of justice. He said he
visited various people on August 9 and made a statement on his arrest to say he
had not been at the scene.

A 16-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons but was 15 at the time, was
found guilty of riot. He told police he saw petrol bombs being thrown, but was
not involved. He said he had followed a big group to "see what was going on".

Antany Edwards, 23, of Noel Street, Hyson Green, pleaded guilty to riot when he
appeared in court on April 17.

Callum Powell, 20, of Jarrow Gardens, Top Valley, was found guilty of riot.

He made no comment in police interview, but the court heard how he fell through
a roof and had to be helped out by a policeman attending the scene.

A 16-year-old from Radford, who cannot be identified, pleaded guilty to violent
disorder when he appeared in court on April 16.

Curtis Dejean, 19, of Welstead Avenue, Aspley, pleaded guilty to riot, arson
being reckless as to whether life was endangered and possessing petrol bombs.
His pleas were entered on April 16.

Harrison McCalla, 21, of Carlswark Gardens, Top Valley, pleaded guilty to riot
when he appeared in court on April 17.

A 16-year-old from St Ann's, who cannot be identified, pleaded guilty to violent
disorder when he appeared in court on April 16.

Gregory Coleman, 20, of Bells Lane, Aspley, was found guilty of riot. He made no
comment to police. The court heard he was arrested in the area. He had with him
a mobile phone, black gloves and a black and white bandana.

Bobby Muers, 18, of Caunton Avenue, St Ann's, pleaded guilty to violent disorder
when he appeared in court on April 19.

Lucas Stapleton, 18, of Dulwich Road, Radford, admitted riot when he appeared in
court on April 17.

Shaundre Robinson, 22, of Scotholme Avenue, Hyson Green, was found guilty of
riot.

He told police he had been going to the shop for some beer and had seen a big
mob but did not recognise anyone and was not involved.

Reiss Wilson, 21, of Beckhampton Road, Bestwood, pleaded guilty to riot,
perverting the course of justice and arson being reckless as to whether life was
endangered. His pleas were entered on April 18.

Ricardo Cotteral, 23, of Basford Road, Basford, admitted violent disorder when
he appeared in court on April 18.

A 17-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons was found guilty of riot.

He had claimed he was on his way to a cab office in Radford after spending the
evening smoking cannabis and doing gym work at his cousin's flat.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under siege: Stills from CCTV footage showing Canning Circus Police
Station as it is attacked with petrol bombs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 13, 2013

Modi is totally secular, says BJP

LENGTH: 153  words


New Delhi: Amid insistence by ally JD-U on projecting a "secular" leader as
NDA's Prime Ministerial candidate, BJP today said Narendra Modi is "totally
secular" and sought to justify it by saying no riots took place in Gujarat
during his rule.



The party also attacked the Congress saying it was suffering from "Modiphobia"
as one of its leaders raked up the 2002 Gujarat riots and drew a parallel with
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"Gujarat has a history of riots in the past. There has been no riot in Gujarat
during the last 12 years of Modi's regime. This is a proof of his good
governance and his being totally secular," BJP spokesperson Capt Abhimanyu said.


"Congress' efforts to compare the 1984 anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 Gujarat
riots depicts that Congress has Modiphobia," he told reporters. He criticised
Oil Minister Veerappa Moily for comparing the 1984 anti-Sikh riot accused
Jagdish Tytler with Gujarat riots.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday
                                 Mumbai Edition

'Pursue 1992-93 riots cases with same zeal'

BYLINE: Mateen.Hafeez@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 402 words


A day before the Supreme Court will take a final call on the mercy petition of
1993 serial blasts convict Yaqub Memon, campaigners, who have been following the
city's worst sectarian riots cases for more than 20 years, lambasted the
government saying that it should show similar interest in punishing the riot
accused.

Disturbances and violence in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid
had left close to 275 Hindus and 575 Muslims dead in the financial capital.

The Supreme Court asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act and
after which a special task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Justice B N Srikrishna report on the riots. Jyoti Punwani, who followed and

wrote about the riots extensively, stated: "1,358 riot cases were closed and
classified as 'A summary' (true but not detected). The Srikrishna panel found
that the police made no effort to detect the offence, even when the accused had
been named by the complainants. Justice Srikrishna recommended the 1,358 closed
cases be

probed again. The task force re-opened only five cases...amounting to not even
one per cent of the cases closed! These too ended in acquittal, thanks to a
half-hearted prosecution."

Activist Fareed Batatawala, an intervener in the Supreme Court in the riots
cases, said,"We don't want our children to be labelled

and live as children or rioters. A special investigation team was formed on my
petition. However, justice has been delayed. While the police arrested former MP
Madhukar Sarpotdar, other politicians were never taken in custody and the Mumbai
police are responsible for it.

The authorities had shown no interest in these

cases. "If the Mumbai police's guilty personnel been punished, then the Gujarat
riots would not have occurred. The Gujarat police dared knowing nothing happens
to cops in such cases," he added. "You are preparing to hang Memon, what about
the riot perpetrators?" he asked.

Shaikh Sajid, an activist from Jogeshwari, opined that the government should
take riots cases to their logical conclusion.

"When the Radhabai chawl in Jogeshwari was set on fire, 13 people were killed.We
fought for the accused.We protected the Hindu families and with the help of
other NGOs we rehabilitated them. The state has shown no interest in remedy of
such riots and spreading communal harmony . Unless you punish the riot accused,
you cannot win the trust of victims," said Sajid.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday

'Pursue 1992-93 riots cases with same zeal'

BYLINE: Mateen Hafeez

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 410 words


MUMBAI: A day before the Supreme Court will take a final call on the mercy
petition of 1993 serial blasts convict Yaqub Memon, campaigners, who have been
following the city's worst sectarian riots cases for more than 20 years,
lambasted the government saying that it should show similar interest in
punishing the riot accused.

Disturbances and violence in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid
had left close to 275 Hindus and 575 Muslims dead in the financial capital.

The Supreme Court asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act and
after which a special task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Justice B N Srikrishna report on the riots. Jyoti Punwani, who followed and
wrote about the riots extensively, stated: "1,358 riot cases were closed and
classified as 'A summary' (true but not detected). The Srikrishna panel found
that the police made no effort to detect the offence, even when the accused had
been named by the complainants. Justice Srikrishna recommended the 1,358 closed
cases be probed again. The task force re-opened only five cases... amounting to
not even one per cent of the cases closed! These too ended in acquittal, thanks
to a half-hearted prosecution."

Activist Fareed Batatawala, an intervener in the Supreme Court in the riots
cases, said,"We don't want our children to be labelled and live as children or
rioters. A special investigation team was formed on my petition. However,
justice has been delayed. While the police arrested former MP Madhukar
Sarpotdar, other politicians were never taken in custody and the Mumbai police
are responsible for it.

The authorities had shown no interest in these cases. "If the Mumbai police's
guilty personnel been punished, then the Gujarat riots would not have occurred.
The Gujarat police dared knowing nothing happens to cops in such cases," he
added. "You are preparing to hang Memon, what about the riot perpetrators?"

he asked.

Shaikh Sajid, an activist from Jogeshwari, opined that the government should
take riots cases to their

logical conclusion.

"When the Radhabai chawl in Jogeshwari was set on fire, 13 people were killed.
We fought for the accused. We protected the Hindu families and with the help of
other NGOs we rehabilitated them. The state has shown no interest in remedy of
such riots and spreading communal harmony. Unless you punish the riot accused,
you cannot win the trust of victims," said Sajid.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

Number of riot police to increase after Turkish park protests

LENGTH: 544 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 2 August

(Todays Zaman) -Following the recent Gezi Park protests across the country, the
National Police Department has decided to recruit more riot police and also to
provide training courses for existing riot police on how to respond to mass
demonstrations more effectively.

The protests that erupted over the government's plan to demolish Taksim's famous
Gezi Park in late May later spread to tens of cities across Turkey. During the
protests, which lasted for nearly a month, some groups of protesters clashed
with the police and shouted anti-government slogans. Millions of lira of damage
were caused to shops and other buildings located near the demonstration areas.
The lack of a satisfactory response to the protests by police has led the
National Police Department to take action. The National Police Department has
decided to increase the number of riot police units as well as to give greater
training to existing riot police officers in responding to mass demonstrations.
In addition, the police department will give riot training courses to nearly
2,000 new police officers.

However, after Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc claimed on July 30 through the
TRT news channel that the government had received intelligence concerning a wave
of similar protests in September and October, the National Police Department has
intensified its efforts. The police department has also decided to provide riot
training courses to specialized police officers working in counterterrorism
units and anti-smuggling and organized crime units in the cities of Ankara,
Istanbul, Bursa, Izmir and Diyarbakir.

The National Police Department has already started giving riot training courses
to 1,500 police officers and 3,500 riot police officers in Ankara. The police
officers are being instructed in mass psychology, efficient and logical methods
of intervention in social events, and the legal aspects of intervention as part
of the riot training courses. Psychological specialists also attend the courses
to train the police officers on mass psychology and effective ways to respond to
mass demonstrations without escalating tension. Additionally, the officers will
undergo special tests as part of the programme. Those officers who tend to lose
their temper during the tests will be excluded from the riot programme and will
not be assigned to mass demonstrations in the future.

The source within the National Police Department, who declined to be named as
civil servants had not been authorized to speak to the press, told Today's Zaman
that the problems experienced during the Gezi protests caused the police
department to question itself and raise the awareness of its officers.

A small group of environmentalists began a sit-in protest at Gezi Park in the
heart of Istanbul in late May, attempting to block the government's plan to
build an Ottoman-style barracks on the park. Following a heavy-handed police
crackdown on the peaceful protesters, thousands took to the streets and rallies
spread across Turkey. Five people, including a policeman, have died and more
than 5,000 have been injured in the clashes, according to a Turkish rights
group.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 2 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

A new kind of riot? From Brixton 1981 to Tottenham 2011

BYLINE: Tim Newburnguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1964 words

ABSTRACT

Last summer's unrest resembled earlier postwar English riots, but what were the
key differences?

FULL TEXT

The petrol bombs started flying on a Saturday night, amid rumours over police
mistreatment of a local black man. It would be the first in a series of
disturbances, as rioting erupted across the capital and parts of Birmingham,
Liverpool and Manchester.

The riots that began in Brixton in 1981 were in many ways similar to those that
blighted England this summer. Both took place while a Conservative prime
minister grappled with the effects of global economic downturn and rising
unemployment. Both had created a strong sense - for those involved - of unity.

"I was sitting in my brother's house and I smelt fire, I smelt burning," said a
19-year-old man who rioted in Brixton this August. "So we left the house, went
up to Brixton. The first person that we talked to was some old rasta man on some
walking stick who was in the last riots, directing people where to go, saying:
'Yeah, everyone hook up as one.' A union thing, wasn't it? Go fight the
government."

The English riots of 2011 can certainly lay claim to being the biggest civil
disorder in a generation. But to what extent were the August riots really that
different from civil unrest in previous decades?

The Guardian and London School of Economics joint inquiry into the August
disturbances, involving 270 interviews with rioters, helps place the summer
disorder in context.

One key difference was speed. In August, disturbances spread across England in
just four nights, fuelled in part by the BlackBerry messaging service that
enabled flashmobs to congregate at prearranged locations. In 1981, by contrast,
it was three months after Brixton before riots broke out in Liverpool, Leeds,
Manchester and Birmingham, although they then spread across five cities in a
week.

The rush to blame technology, however, is nothing new. The government mistakenly
blamed social media such as Twitter and Facebook for the "viral" spread of the
August 2011 riots. During the LA riots, rolling TV coverage was the scapegoat,
while riots in France in 2005 were partly explained by reference to young people
communicating via text message, email and blogs. Even in 1981 there were scare
stories that, in Manchester and London, rioters were communicating using "£10
radios".

An undoubtedly significant technological development has been the rise of CCTV.
Although used in the 1970s and 1980s by the police, CCTV was initially confined
primarily to targeting football hooligans and political demonstrators.

Its spread across the UK's urban landscape only really occurred in the 1990s,
but has now reached such a scale that much of what occurred in the August riots
was caught on film.

Its impact can be seen most dramatically in many of the 4,000 arrests: on
Wednesday, Junior Saunders, a 36-year-old from Hackney, was given a five-year
sentence - the harshest to be handed down to any rioter - after being captured
on CCTV during the rioting.

Cameras first caught Saunders riding through Hackney on his bike; later he was
spotted wearing the same beach shorts, hooded top and sunglasses attacking
police vehicles, throwing stepladders at police, breaking into a lorry, burgling
an optician's and attacking a branch of Tesco with a shovel.

Race and police

If there is an overriding theme than runs like a thread through most of the
riots in postwar Britain, it is undoubtedly race. Some of the earliest postwar
disturbances, in Nottingham and Notting Hill, London in the summer of 1958, were
widely described as "race riots". The Institute of Race Relations described a
history of conflict in Nottingham in the late 1950s between white and recently
arrived black residents, which had been going on for at least a year by the time
the riot occurred. Newspapers covering the second and third days of rioting in
Notting Hill reported violence so serious that all available police reserves
were on duty or standing by and that dozens of arrests were made when a large
crowd had gathered to join in racist chanting.

Such direct racial confrontation has been relatively uncommon; in recent times
perhaps the closest parallel to those 1950s events were the disturbances that
occurred in the north of England in mid-2001. There, initially in Oldham, and
then in Burnley, there was significant conflict between local Asian and white
youths. Subsequent disturbances in Bradford occurred after the National Front
announced plans to march in the city, sparking confrontations between local
Pakistani youth and white extremists.

By contrast, the major disturbances of the 1980s, beginning in St Paul's in
Bristol in 1980, and then, in 1981, proceeding via Brixton, Handsworth in
Birmingham, Chapeltown in Leeds, Moss Side in Manchester and Toxteth in
Liverpool, and picking up four years later in Handsworth, Brixton and Broadwater
Farm in Tottenham, tended to coalesce around conflict with the police, although
race was at the heart of the grievances.

Sheldon Thomas, a gang expert and youth worker who was involved in Brixton in
1981, remembers the problems of isolation and unemployment that his generation
of young black people faced. These were compounded, he said, by having to "cope
with a racist police force who had the power to stop and search us at will".
"[With] beatings, deaths in police custody ... Most young black boys felt
completely persecuted," Thomas said.

For many who were involved, said Ros Griffiths, a community leader in Brixton,
the 1981 riots "were fundamentally about race". "In Brixton we called the riots
an uprising," she said. On the other hand, Griffiths said: "The riots that took
place in August [2011] were not about race but about a growing underclass in our
inner cities that feels excluded, isolated and locked out of mainstream
society." Thomas agrees, arguing that what has really changed in the past 30
years is that, while many young black people continue to feel the same way as
his generation had in 1981, "now that feeling is shared by white working-class
people".

Although rioters interviewed by the Guardian/LSE often said their mistreatment,
particularly at the hands of police, was a consequence of race, they were mostly
adamant the disturbances were not race riots. If anything, many saw the disorder
as a coming together of ethnically disparate groups who loosely shared a sense
of injustice.

"I can understand, as a black man who grew up with racism, how a lot of white
working-class people feel today," said Thomas. "These politicians have no
interest in the white man in Salford or the black man in Brixton."

Poverty

To understand the 2011 riots one needs to look back not just to Brixton,
Handsworth and Toxteth in the 1980s, but also to the outbreaks that occurred in
the early 1990s in places like Oxford, Cardiff and Tyneside. There the arson,
looting and attacks on the police primarily involved white youth in suburban,
working-class estates.

All the accounts of these disturbances at the time used words like poverty,
deprivation and isolation. All of the estates involved had dramatically high
levels of youth unemployment.

The August rioters were ethnically mixed, but most shared an experience of
economic deprivation. Of the rioters interviewed in the Guardian/LSE study who
were of working age and not in education, 59% were unemployed. Analysis of more
than 1,000 court records held by the Guardian suggests 59% of rioters came from
the most deprived 20% of areas in the UK.

Almost all of the major outbreaks of civil disorder of the past 30 years have
involved looting as well as attacks on property and on the police. In the 1981
Brixton riot, approximately 30 premises were burned, and over 100 damaged and
looted.

But with approximately 2,500 shops and businesses looted, and insurance claims
in London alone likely to reach £300m, the scale of the looting in August this
year, and the fact that some of the disturbances seem primarily to have involved
looting rather than other forms of protest or criminality, separates them from
previous experiences.

This may reflect the rise of a new culture of consumption. Many of those
interviewed by the Guardian/LSE spoke about the status attributed to brand
items, admitting they saw August's perceived lawlessness as a "once in a
lifetime" opportunity to acquire consumer goods they could not ordinarily
afford. As one 15-year-girl who looted in south London put it: "People with the
Ralph, the Gucci, the Nike, the trainers, the Air Forces [Nike Air Force 1
trainers], it's all the style, just everyone wants it. If you don't have it
you're just going to look like an idiot. Like, that's how we see it, you just
look like an idiot. It's a fashion thing."

Inquiries

What the recent English riots do have in common with most previous examples of
significant civil disorder is the absence of a major official inquiry.

In 1958, the home secretary, R A Butler, turned down requests for a major
inquiry after the Nottingham and Notting Hill riots. Questioned in the House of
Commons, he said had spoken with the Metropolitan police commissioner and was
satisfied that "everything possible was being done". In the aftermath of
August's riots, David Cameron said: "This was not political protest or a riot
about protest about politics. It was common or garden thieving, robbing and
looting. And we don't need an inquiry to tell us that."

The riots in Moss Side, Handsworth, Toxteth, St Paul's and Broadwater Farm were
all investigated in some detail, but while these inquiries were important in
their local context, and one or two had larger reach, few really permeated
national debates and general public consciousness.

The exception, and the one inquiry that stands out above all others, is that by
Lord Justice Scarman into the Brixton riots in 1981. Why? Part of the reason
lies with Scarman himself, a man described by the former lord chief justice Lord
Woolf as "a lawyer and a judge who had a remarkable insight into human nature
and an exceptional sensitivity to the needs of a healthy society". But it was
the independence and authority of Scarman's report that was key.

Hard-hitting, it was critical of the Metropolitan police and also took the
opportunity to focus in detail on both racial disadvantage and the very high
levels of unemployment experienced by Brixton residents at that time. Neither of
these features owas guaranteed to endear Scarman's report to the government.

Perhaps the memory of Scarman has been a factor in the official resistance to
the establishment of anything similar this year. After Cameron's dismissal of
the need for an inquiry led to pressure from the Liberal Democrats and Labour,
it was agreed that a riots communities and victims' panel would be established
under the chairmanship of Darra Singh.

The inquiry's terms of reference are quite narrow and its findings have been
fairly low-key; the suspicion must be that there is a desire to avoid having too
much independent scrutiny of such major events.

This is certainly the view of Ted Cantle, the author of the report into the 2001
disturbances. Although he believes that Singh's initial report into the victims
of the riots has been strong, in his view establishments have a reason to avoid
scrutiny. "The government is always very reluctant to set up reviews because
they may find uncomfortable conclusions," he said.

Prof Gus John, who led the Moss Side Defence Committee that criticised the
Hytner report into the 1981 Moss Side riots, says "key lessons will be missed"
if the government fails to set up a proper inquiry. Without one, "the focus will
remain on criminals and their victims, and on the need for more robust,
militarised policing and harsher punishments for rioters and looters".

Additional Reporting: Will Wainewright, Ben Ferguson and Yemisi Adegoke

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Man charged in riot after assault due in court Feb. 5

BYLINE: Liz Markhlevskaya, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


Jan. 16--ROCHESTER -- Zachary Colbroth, who is one of five men charged with
felony riot after an assault incident at Spaulding High School in September, is
scheduled to appear for a court conference next month in connection to several
alleged probation violations.

Colbroth, 19, of Rochester, allegedly kicked a 17-year-old man in the head
during the Sept. 5, 2014 riot near Hanson Pines, which occurred during a varsity
football game outside school hours. During the incident, five men assaulted one
17-year-old man who tried to intervene in a verbal argument that had been
escalating, police say.

Others charged in the riot incident were Dylan Boston, 17, Michael Burke, 18,
Cody Cook, 19, and Shamel Jackson-Dixon, 19.

For Colbroth, his alleged involvement in the incident was one of several
probation violations that took place over the past year. According to court
documents, in November 2013 he was convicted of felony drug possession, for
illegally having the prescription medication Vyvanse, which is used for
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). He was sentenced to three
months in jail and a year of probation, which he allegedly violated during the
riot incident.

According to court documents, Colbroth also violated probation by being charged
in connection to a safe theft incident last year. Colbroth, and Rochester
residents Stephen Mercier and Tyrone Scott, were indicted in May on conspiracy
to commit theft charges, after Scott allegedly stole a safe with $16,000 from
his father. Colbroth then allegedly drove the other two suspects to a home in
Farmington, where the safe was broken open. Mercier later told police that the
three of them began grabbing money as soon as the safe was opened.

In May Colbroth was indicted on a felony receiving stolen property charge in
addition to felony conspiracy to commit theft.

Colbroth, who is now being held at Strafford County jail, is scheduled to appear
at Strafford County Superior Court for a status conference on the probation
violations on Feb. 5.

Jackson-Dixon, of 8 Lafayette St., is charged with felony riot and second-degree
assault in connection to the Sept. 5 riot. He allegedly kicked the riot victim
in the head after the man was already on the ground. He failed to appear for
arraignment on the charges last month and a warrant was issued for his arrest.
Court officials say he remains at large.

Burke, of 9 Upham St., is currently free on $5,000 personal recognizance after
being charged with felony riot and misdemeanor simple assault for allegedly
punching the victim in the head. Court documents indicate he violated bail
conditions by testing positive for THC twice while being monitored by Strafford
County Community Corrections. A dispositional conference for his case is
scheduled for Feb. 10.

Cook, of 4 Clearview Dr., is facing felony riot and misdemeanor simple assault
charges for allegedly punching the riot victim in the chest. He is scheduled to
appear for a plea and sentencing hearing on the charges on Feb. 13, at Strafford
County Superior Court.

Boston, of 52 Hanson St., is facing the charges of felony riot, as well as
misdemeanor simple assault and criminal threatening, for allegedly pushing a
second victim in the chest and threatening him. A final pretrial conference for
his case is scheduled for March 18 at Strafford County Superior Court, and jury
selection for his trial is tentatively scheduled for March 30. The state's
prospective witness list for the case includes several Rochester police
officers, as well as many residents of Gonic and Rochester. Boston is being held
in jail on $10,000 cash bail.

___ (c)2015 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150116-1FD-Man-charged-in-riot
-after-assault-due-in-court-Feb-5-0116-20150116

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2015 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Centre, States Must Avert and Tackle Riots Jointly

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, April 29 -- It is unfortunate that incidents of communal rioting
recorded a 25 per cent increase in 2013, over the previous year. According to a
report of the ministry of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh was the worst affected,
recording 247 incidents, against 118 in 2012. The state also witnessed one of
India's worst riots in Muzaffarnagar. It's a blot on India that communal riots
continue to occur with some measure of regularity. Nearly seven decades after
Independence, the nation cannot blame the British policy divide-and-rule for the
communal rift that is central to riots. Prescience is not required to realise
that the riots are caused by political leaders for short-term gains.

It is against this backdrop that the ministry has warned the states to be
vigilant against agent provocateurs, who create situations congenial for riots.
Almost all riots had their origin in minor incidents of clash, which are then
taken up by politicians, who use their lung power to pit man against man and
community against community. More often than not, such speeches by politicians
are ignored by the administration until raw passions ignited by them reach a
conflagration. By the time the administration acts, many lives would have been
lost and property worth hundreds of crores of rupees destroyed.

Unfortunately, the politicians have mastered the art of using inflammatory
speeches to polarise voters and thereby gain electoral advantage. This can be
countered only if the administration is extra-vigilant and takes summary action
as was done in case of BJP leader Amit Shah and SP's Mohammed Azam Khan. It is
also true that it is the lack of vigilance on the part of the district
administration and its hesitation to take action that lead to riots. While
dealing with a case related to the Muzaffarnagar riots, the Supreme Court has
ruled that the Centre could not absolve itself of the responsibility of riots.
If anything this suggests that the Centre and the state concerned should jointly
control the riots, rather than blame each other.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            February 3, 2014 Monday

'Cong spewed poison for 60 yrs'

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: Meerut


eerut, Feb. 3 -- In the riot-hit western Uttar Pradesh, the BJP on Sunday
accused the Congress of triggering communal riots in the country and said the
ruling Samajwadi Party in the State was not far behind. While BJP president
Rajnath Singh held the Samajwadi Party responsible for the Muzaffarnagar riots,
party's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi hit back at Congress president
Sonia Gandhi saying it was the Congress which sowed the 'seeds of poison'. Modi
also criticised the Samajwadi Party and its chief Mulayam Singh Yadav saying it
was 'samaj virodhi party'.

Reacting sharply to Sonia's zehar ki kheti barb, Modi said the Congress only
believed in divisive politics and the party had widened sectarian rift in the
country. Addressing a massive rally at communally sensitive Meerut on Sunday,
Modi lamented that communal clashes in Uttar Pradesh had continued unabated, and
promised a riot-free State if the BJP was voted to power.

"There has been no communal riot in Gujarat during the last ten years. It is now
on the path of peace, harmony and development. The BJP will ensure freedom from
rioters and murderers in Uttar Pradesh. We will give you a riot-free State,"
Modi said amid loud applause from the crowd which had gathered from all 14
parliamentary constituencies of Western UP, including the neighbouring
Muzaffarnnagar and Shamli.

Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh Police had made a provision of a bulletproof
enclosure for Modi taking into account the threat perception, but the Gujarat
Chief Minister chose not to use it and rather address the gathering from the
open podium.

Taking a jibe at the Congress chief, the BJP prime ministerial candidate said,
"Sonia Gandhi had told Rahul that power is poison. The Congress has been in
power for the maximum time since Independence. In whose stomach has this poison
gone? Who is spewing this poison? Who is harvesting the poison? They (Congress)
are the ones who sow the seeds of poison."

Modi's counter-attack came a day after Sonia at a rally in Karnataka accused him
of indulging in divisive politics. "The country is seeking answers from the
Congress to the burning issues but its replies are vague and irrelevant. People
ask Sonia Gandhi why farmers are committing suicide; but her reply is people are
sowing seeds of poison," Modi said.

In his 50-minute speech, Modi also criticised the 'nexus' of Congress-Samajwadi
Party at the Centre and Congress-AAP alliance in Delhi and sought a clear
mandate in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. Modi projected himself as
'chowkidar' of the public wealth and promised that he would not allow anyone lay
'hand' on this. While Modi was relentless in his attack on the Samajwadi Party,
Rajnath Singh spared no words to criticise the Congress.

The Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the BSP have presided over hundreds of
riots in UP. The Congress alone has perpetrated thousands of riots across the
country. The killing of lakhs of people after partition of India in 1947 was
also due to the Congress. Thousands of Sikhs were killed in 1984 but the
Congress never apologised. It instead asks Narendra Modi to apologise for the
2002 riots," Singh said, adding Modi had already condemned the riots.

Launching a tirade against the Congress, the BJP president maintained that Modi
never justified riots, unlike Rajiv Gandhi who had justified the killings of
Sikhs after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. "Rajiv
Gandhi had justified the riots saying 'when a big tree falls, the earth
shakes'," he said. Referring to the recent riots in Muzaffarnagar, the former UP
chief minister blamed the SP Government in State for perpetrating the riots.
"Neither public nor the police are to be blamed for riots. The Samajwadi Party
is responsible for the killing of innocent and it should be punished," he
maintained.

Calling the SP as 'samaj virodhi party, Modi said, "No development has taken
place in Meerut despite being one of the fastest developing cities in India.The
SP Government is also silent on the plight of sugarcane farmers who are forced
to commit suicide. The crime rate in Uttar Pradesh has increased by 240 per cent
during the last ten years and accounts for 45 per cent of the total crime
registered in India," he said.

Modi also advised SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav to compete with him over the
issues of development and not in terms of rallies. Taking on the AAP, which is
being seen as a potential spoiler for the BJP in forthcoming Lok Sabha
elections, Modi said the recent 'humiliation' of an African woman by its
government in Delhi brought 'disgrace' to India globally.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

HUNDREDS STILL WAITING FOR RIOT PAYMENTS

BYLINE: Jack Lefley, Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 372 words


VICTIMS of last summer's riots today claimed they had been let down after it
emerged that hundreds were still awaiting full compensation.

A total of 656 cases are still to be settled, including many where no funds at
all have been received, and Mayor Boris Johnson came under pressure to speed up
the claims as an inquiry began into the compensation scheme.

Tottenham MP David Lammy, whose constituency was at the centre of the riots,
said it was "totally unacceptable" that so many cases had yet to be settled and
warned Mr Johnson that it would be "staggeringly embarrassing" if victims had
not received payouts by the time of the Olympics.

Rioters and looters caused £370 million of damage after police shot dead Mark
Duggan in Tottenham Hale on August 4 last year.

Seven days later, David Cameron promised in the Commons that all victims would
be compensated under the Riot Damages Act, and Mr Johnson worked with large
companies to set up the High Street Fund to help small businesses affected by
the riots.

But Mr Lammy told the London Assembly: "The Mayor's office should be bending
over backwards to make sure that those affected by the riots get the funds they
deserve quickly.

"It was not their fault. We know there were not enough police on the streets.
People are seeing half, 25 per cent, or no claims at all nine months after the
riots, and that's a travesty."

His attack came as London Assembly members launched an investigation into the
effectiveness of riot recovery funding. A panel including Bob Atkins, chief
finance officer at the Mayor's office for policing and crime (MOPC), were
questioned by the budget and performance committee on the amount, distribution
and impact of funding to businesses and people hit by the riots.

The 656 outstanding cases include 505 where businesses were insured and in most
cases would have received at least an interim payment. There are 145 cases where
the insurer rejected the claim, which then became a claim against the MOPC.
Finally, there are six outstanding cases of uninsured claims.

Lib-Dem Stephen Knight, deputy chair of the committee, said: "To have suffered
the results of the riots is bad enough, but if you're waiting this long for the
compensation it's just not good enough."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                           October 10, 1999, Sunday,

South Portland struts maturity, 23-0;
 The Riots dominate Thornton Academy on defense and improve their record to 5-1.

BYLINE: LARRY WOODWARD Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: SACO


South Portland has such football tradition that at some point each season it
rises to the fore. Saturday, a maturing Red Riots team played a dominant game in
a 23-0 victory against Thornton Academy.

After a loss to Massabesic two weeks ago and come-from-behind win over Deering
last week, the Riots (5-1) were in control from the beginning against the Golden
Trojans (2-4), who were playing before a large Homecoming crowd.

The Riots held the Trojans to less than 100 yards with an aggressive defense
that sacked Dan Foley four times and forced one interception.

South Portland's offense was methodical under quarterback Matt Orlando. The
Riots ran the ball so well that Orlando attempted only six passes, none in the
second half.

That the Riots didn't need to pass was significant, because a steady crosswind
affected that strategy.

Matt DiBiase was the workhorse of the Riots' offense with 30 carries for 108
yards and two touchdowns.

"The more I touch the ball, the more I get into the flow of the game," said
DiBiase.  "Anything over 25 carries is a lot for me."

DiBiase scored the Riots' first touchdown just 1:48 into the second quarter,
completing a 14-play drive that covered 61 yards and chewed up more than six
minutes.

He carried eight times in the drive, finishing with a 4-yard sweep around left
end. Chris DeVinney kicked the PAT for a 7-0 lead.

The Riots held the Trojans on the next possession to force a punt, and Brandon
McCrossin returned it 34 yards to the Thornton 35 to set up the next score.

On the sixth play, McCrossin scored on a reverse from the 21. The kick failed
but the Riots had a 13-0 halftime lead.

The Riots' defense took over in the second half and allowed the Trojans just two
first downs. The defense was led by middle guard Matt Ferrante, tackles Arthur
Dickey and Frank Voisine, and defensive ends Joe Hezlep and Ryan Sprague.

"Our defense is tough," said DiBiase, who also starts at linebacker. "We've got
great down people."

Thornton mistakes played into the Riots' hands in the second half. Early in the
fourth quarter a low snap on a punt resulted in the Riots starting from the
Thornton 28. The Riots advanced to the 8 ,where the Trojans held.

Again the Trojans were forced to punt, and this time the long snap sailed over
the head of punter Jon Burgess and into the end zone for a safety and a 15-0
lead.

Thornton kicked from its own 20 right into the arms of Mike Leconte, who
returned the ball 10 yards to the 22.

On the fifth play, DiBiase found a big hole in the middle and rambled untouched
9 yards for a touchdown. Leconte ran for the 2-point conversion and a 23-0 lead.

"I thought we ran the ball well and took care of it," said South Portland Coach
John Wolfgram. "On a windy day it's hard to do a lot of things. We played with
good maturity under the conditions."

South Portland's maturity was certainly a factor in a game against a young
Thornton team.

"Mistakes and penalties (seven for 45 yards) hurt us," said Thornton Coach Marc
Gagne. "South Portland has had a lot of success in the 90s, and that tradition
is handed on year after year. We're young and we're spurty. We can't get going
with consistency, but we'll get better."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                           October 10, 1999, Sunday,

South Portland struts maturity, 23-0;
 The Riots dominate Thornton Academy on defense and improve their record to 5-1.

BYLINE: LARRY WOODWARD Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: SACO


South Portland has such football tradition that at some point each season it
rises to the fore. Saturday, a maturing Red Riots team played a dominant game in
a 23-0 victory against Thornton Academy.

After a loss to Massabesic two weeks ago and come-from-behind win over Deering
last week, the Riots (5-1) were in control from the beginning against the Golden
Trojans (2-4), who were playing before a large Homecoming crowd.

The Riots held the Trojans to less than 100 yards with an aggressive defense
that sacked Dan Foley four times and forced one interception.

South Portland's offense was methodical under quarterback Matt Orlando. The
Riots ran the ball so well that Orlando attempted only six passes, none in the
second half.

That the Riots didn't need to pass was significant, because a steady crosswind
affected that strategy.

Matt DiBiase was the workhorse of the Riots' offense with 30 carries for 108
yards and two touchdowns.

"The more I touch the ball, the more I get into the flow of the game," said
DiBiase. "Anything over 25 carries is a lot for me."

DiBiase scored the Riots' first touchdown just 1:48 into the second quarter,
completing a 14-play drive that covered 61 yards and chewed up more than six
minutes.

He carried eight times in the drive, finishing with a 4-yard sweep around left
end. Chris DeVinney kicked the PAT for a 7-0 lead.

The Riots held the Trojans on the next possession to force a punt, and Brandon
McCrossin returned it 34 yards to the Thornton 35 to set up the next score.

On the sixth play, McCrossin scored on a reverse from the 21. The kick failed
but the Riots had a 13-0 halftime lead.

The Riots' defense took over in the second half and allowed the Trojans just two
first downs. The defense was led by middle guard Matt Ferrante, tackles Arthur
Dickey and Frank Voisine, and defensive ends Joe Hezlep and Ryan Sprague.

"Our defense is tough," said DiBiase, who also starts at linebacker. "We've got
great down people."

Thornton mistakes played into the Riots' hands in the second half. Early in the
fourth quarter a low snap on a punt resulted in the Riots starting from the
Thornton 28. The Riots advanced to the 8, where the Trojans held.

Again the Trojans were forced to punt, and this time the long snap sailed over
the head of punter Jon Burgess and into the end zone for a safety and a 15-0
lead.

Thornton kicked from its own 20 right into the arms of Mike Leconte, who
returned the ball 10 yards to the 22.

On the fifth play, DiBiase found a big hole in the middle and rambled untouched
9 yards for a touchdown. Leconte ran for the 2-point conversion and a 23-0 lead.

MT.  ARARAT 32, GORHAM 26: Erland Springer scored on a 15-yard reverse on third
down in the second overtime as the Eagles (2-4) snapped a four-game losing
streak and beat Gorham (3-2) at Topsham.

The Rams built an 18-6 lead before Mt. Ararat rallied.

The Eagles made it 18-18 when Brian Gerrish threw a 17-yard scoring pass to Joe
Pennel with 17 seconds left in regulation.

Gorham took a 26-18 lead in the first overtime when Nick Russell scored on a
10-yard run and rushed the 2-point conversion.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Race riots guilty plea;
Warilla man faces court, teen denies lifesaver assault

BYLINE: MEGAN LEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words


A WARILLA man has admitted taking part in the Cronulla race riots in December
last year.

Craig Patrick Sala, 20, pleaded guilty in Sutherland Local Court yesterday to a
charge of participating in a riot, after earlier denying the charge.

However the case was adjourned while police and Sala's lawyers agree on a
statement of facts about his role.

Sala was one of 20 suspects police released photographs of earlier this year in
a bid to shame them into coming forward. Sala was the first to do so, and was
charged with one count of riot and one of affray.

At the time of the riots, Sala was living in Cronulla and was a trade assistant
contractor at Kurnell.

In earlier appearances Sala, of Helen St, pleaded guilty to the affray charge
but not guilty to riot.

He will appear again on November 16.

Meanwhile, a Sydney teenager accused of sparking the riots by assaulting a
lifesaver had turned his back on his culture and on Australia, a magistrate said
yesterday.

Ali Osman, 18, of Bankstown, was sentenced to 300 hours community service after
pleading not guilty to the assault at North Cronulla Beach on December 4, 2005.

The attack triggered the December 11 Cronulla riot, involving a crowd of up to
5000, during which people of Middle Eastern appearance were chased and attacked.

Subsequent retaliatory attacks forced hundreds of police to virtually lock down
some of Sydney's eastern suburbs.

In Sutherland Local Court yesterday, Magistrate Jacqueline Trad, herself of
Lebanese heritage, reprimanded Osman for not respecting the sacrifices those who
had migrated to Australia to flee intolerance had made.

"By your conduct you have turned your back on your family, your culture and your
real country (Australia) - all for the sake of some juvenile, impulsive and
misplaced allegiance," she said.

"Over the last 100 years or so, the ancestors of many citizens - mine included -
came to this country seeking refuge from hatred, intolerance, violence or just
simply the opportunity to improve their families' prospects." But NSW Opposition
Leader Peter Debnam said that by failing to jail Osman, the court had shown the
Government tolerated violence.

"Instead of getting jailed, he got a talking to," Mr Debnam said.

"It sends a very strong message to young thugs in NSW that any violence will be
tolerated.

"It's no wonder that the community is very concerned that the judiciary is
totally out of touch with reality." Osman faced a maximum of two years in jail,
but Ms Trad said the non-custodial sentence would help him re-engage with the
community.

He was sentenced to 300 hours for assault occasioning actual bodily harm and to
200 hours for affray, with the sentences to be served concurrently.

His counsel said he would appeal.

Osman claimed police had arrested the wrong man and he was an innocent
bystander, the court was told.

Osman's lawyer Garry Gillett said one police witness testified there were 10 to
15 people in the same Wests Tigers football shorts as Osman was said to be
wearing, while 150 males had similar ethnicity and hairstyles.

He was photographed 10 minutes afterwards on the beach "with not a worry in the
world".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Court: A man has pleaded guilty to taking part in the Cronulla
riots, while a Sydney teenager has been sentenced for assaulting a lifesaver.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            October 20, 2014 Monday

Pumpkin Fair riot: Should Keene State College students be expelled?;
College and city officials are reviewing video of the riots Saturday and Sunday
at the Pumpkin Fair in Keene, N.H. What do Keene State College students say
about punishment for participation?

BYLINE: Lindsay Ellis Contributor

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 695 words


On Monday morning, Keene State College Student Body President Bobby Graham sat
in his econometrics class, one day after he had walked door to door apologizing
to area businesses on behalf of the rioters.

On Saturday, Graham had watched what he describes as "disgusting things": people
ripping down signs, flipping cars in Keene, N.H. At least 14 arrests on Saturday
and Sunday were appeared connected to the riots, The Associated Press reported.
More than 30 people suffered injuries, the Union Leader reported.

In class Monday, the riots were the "elephant in the room," he says in a phone
interview. While his professor mentioned the weekend's events, the class did not
dwell on the riots. "We had things to learn," he says.

The riots that took place when hundreds of young adults took to the streets just
steps away from Keene State's campus have shaken the 5,400-student campus. Some
of the Keene State students say they were not entirely responsible for the riots
that prompted arrests and caused injuries.

But Anne Huot, the college's president, said in a Sunday statement that the most
serious offenders may be expelled, implying that Keene State students could be
responsible.

"We are actively working to identify the individuals who participated in
unlawful behavior, and those who are identified will be held accountable," she
wrote in a statement that the institution's Facebook page posted. "We are
reviewing images, videos, media coverage, social media postings, and information
we have about off-campus residences. The most serious offenders will face
interim suspension, followed by conduct action up to, and including, expulsion."

The vandalism and unruly behavior was well documented - videos show nighttime
and daytime disturbances, with screams and fights. The events prompted police in
riot gear to descend, firing pepper spray and tear gas into the crowd. State
officials have scheduled a news conference for 4 p.m. Monday and will discuss
the violence, the AP reported.

Grounds for suspension or expulsion from Keene State are clearly spelled out.

The college considers riot participation, demonstrations, or events that disrupt
"the normal operations" of Keene State - on or off campus - as behaviors that
are "disorderly, disruptive or indecent," according to the student handbook. The
handbook notes that instigating a riot "will most likely result in disciplinary
suspension or disciplinary dismissal" from the institution.

Mr. Graham, a junior who says he knows a large portion of the student body, says
he did not recognize many faces when he witnessed the riots Saturday. Many area
students come to Pumpkin Fest, where thousands of jack-'o-lanterns draw many
tourists, he says.

If Keene State students are found responsible, disciplinary action should be
determined on a case-by-case basis, he suggests.

Expulsion for students involved may be a fair outcome, wrote Chelsea Harris, the
senior class president, in an email.

"I think that people need to realize that their actions have consequences, and
if the school thinks that those consequences need to be expulsion, then that is
what it needs to be," she wrote, adding that she trusts administrators' judgment
on how to respond to the riots.

Though Ms. Harris wrote that she was not at the riots at any point in time, she
suspects that Keene State students do not comprise a large percentage of those
rioting.

Many students, she noted, are "saddened" by the events, and have been cleaning
up in the community and apologizing.

To Graham, the negative media attention is eating at the student body. And users
of Yik Yak, a popular anonymous chat app, decried the loss in reputation brought
by the riots.

"All over the U.S. now Keene is going to be known for this riot when really this
isn't how Keene really is," read one. "National news means the world is watching
us! Let's turn this around with PEACE," another said.

A third: "Can we all take a moment to be thankful that nobody died?"

In 2012, some 1,500 students at University of Massachusetts at Amherst rioted
following the New England Patriots SuperBowl loss. Thirteen students were
arrested and at least one was expelled, CBS reported at the time.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                Final C Edition

Chaos attracts international attention, and leaves city with black eye

BYLINE: Medha, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 379  words


Vancouver's international reputation has been tarnished.

Media around the world carried reports of the riots that erupted after the
Canucks' Stanley Cup loss Wednesday night and most of them were a scathing
indictment of the city.

The Atlantic, based in Washington D.C., wrote: "In Syria they riot for freedom.
In Pakistan they riot against drone strikes. In China they riot about many
things, most recently in the Guangdong province for worker's rights. But in
Canada, which is officially ranked as one of the wealthiest and most peaceful
nations in the world, they riot over, yes, hockey."

"Angry drunken fans running wild" was top news at USA Today, while Trouble in
Vancouver's Streets After Defeat was a headline on The New York Times' website.
USA Today's website sounded a further warning with, "Vancouver hockey riots
highlight need for traveller awareness."

The UK's The Guardian also highlighted the violent mood in the city after the
game. In addition, the newspaper's website carried an opinion piece by B.C.
musician Matthew Good, who said, "The pointless riots that followed the Canucks'
defeat make a mockery of Vancouver's claims to be a world class city."

One headline on the L.A. Times sports blog read, Vancouver riots show darker
side of feel-good host city of 2010 Winter Olympics, while Time magazine's
website was even more graphic with Vancouver Riots: Hockey Fans Stick It to
Their Own City.

Rick Antonson, CEO of Tourism Vancouver, agreed that the city's reputation had
been compromised by the events of Wednesday night and that the afterglow of the
Olympics has been dulled.

"It is deplorable that those who did this, did it wearing Canuck T-shirts, when
they are just not representative of hockey fans or the people of Vancouver,"
Antonson said. "But these are the images that the world got to see and these are
the images that they will believe in."

His view is that this will have a definite effect on tourism in the short-term
and hard work will be needed to repair the damage.

B.C. Minister of Tourism Pat Bell felt that though the rioting was unfortunate,
it was isolated.

He hopes that international tourists will understand and that in the long-term,
the post-Olympics reputation of a peaceful, friendly Vancouver will prevail.

medha@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Bosch,  PNG; Vancouver's riots following Game 7 of the Stanley
Cup Final were called 'pointless' in the British press.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 17, 2013 Tuesday

SC's electoral reform verdicts may snap political hand behind riots

BYLINE: Dhananjay Mahapatra

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 838 words


The riots that wounded the country at its birth continue to recur every now and
then. Numerous communal conflagrations saw as many judicial or administrative
commissions going into its genesis. Their findings and recommendations remain
unimplemented.

The victims of the vicious 1984 anti-Sikh riots are still awaiting justice -
both from the government and the judiciary. Trial in the post-Godhra communal
pogrom of 2002 has not yet reached its final stages. Except for one politician
in Maya Kodnani, many are yet to feel the rigour of rule of law despite the
Supreme Court clearly observing, "The modern day 'Neros' were looking elsewhere
when Best Bakery and innocent children and women were burning and were probably
deliberating how the perpetrators of the crime can be saved or protected.
[Zahira Habubulla H Sheikh vs Gujarat 2004 (4) SCC 158]."

And now Muzaffarnagar became the theatre for the deadly dance of riots even
though UP is ruled by a political family which champions the cause of minorities
and never wastes an opportunity to wear skull caps to assure them of protection.

After independence, the worst communal riots took place in Gujarat in 1969 when
Congress leader Hiten K Desai was chief minister. Report of the Justice Jagmohan
Reddy Commission indicted the partisan role of police saying Hindu temples near
police stations remained intact but not the mosques.

Police siding with rioters is a common thread in every inquiry report -- Justice
D P Madon Commission on the Bhiwandi, Jalgaon and Madad riots of 1970, Justice
Josepth Vithyathil Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971, Justice
Ranganath Misra Commission on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, Justice
Srikrishna report on Mumbai riots of 1992-1993 and the report of National Human
Rights Commission on the 2002 Gujarat riots.

For decades, the police have been consistently damned for their partisan role
during riots. During these decades, commission after commission appointed by the
Union government repeatedly recommended urgent need for reforms in police
establishment to make it a professional force rather than the alter ego of
politicians in power.

No state has expressed readiness to usher in the reforms, which the Supreme
Court had directed more than six years ago. Instead, they are now telling the
court that it would be unconstitutional for the court to direct them to
implement police reforms.

When police becomes the tool in the hands of politicians, many of whom have
criminal track records or are accused of amassing huge disproportionate wealth,
what does one do?

The Supreme Court in SC Advocates on Record Association case [1993 (4) SCC 411]
had said, "India needs today nothing more than a set of honest men who will have
the interest of the country before them. There is a fissiparous tendency arising
out of various elements in our life. We have communal differences, caste
differences, language differences, provincial differences and so forth. It
requires men of strong character, men of vision, men who will not sacrifice the
interests of the country at large for the sake of smaller groups and areas and
who will rise over the prejudices which are born of these differences."

The year when the SC was looking for a 'set of honest men', the Vohra committee
gave its report on politician-police-bureaucrat-mafia nexus to the government.
Just two paragraphs of it will open the eyes of people about some of the men we
elect to govern us:

"There has been a rapid spread and growth of criminal gangs, armed senas, drug
mafias, smuggling gangs, drug peddlers and economic lobbies in the country which
have, over the years, developed an extensive network of contacts with the
bureaucrats/government functionaries at the local levels, politicians, media
persons and strategically located individuals in the non-state sector. Some of
these syndicates also have international linkages, including foreign
intelligence agencies.

"In certain states like Bihar, Haryana and UP, these gangs enjoy the patronage
of local level politicians, cutting across party lines and the protection of
governmental functionaries. Some political leaders become the leaders of these
gangs, armed senas and over the years get themselves elected to local bodies,
state assemblies and the national Parliament. Resultantly, such elements have
acquired considerable political clout seriously jeopardizing the smooth
functioning of the administration and the safety of life and property of the
common man causing a sense of despair and alienation among the people."

Given the despairing scenario, the Supreme Court's three recent judgments - one
disqualifying MPs and MLAs on their conviction in a serious crime, second
debarring arrested persons from contesting elections and the third, prohibiting
those who don't make full and honest disclosure of their assets and educational
and criminal antecedents from contesting elections - are welcome steps to
instill hope in people to see a 'set of honest men' ruling the country.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Turkish daily says PM has 800 riot police tasked for personal protection

LENGTH: 534 words


Text of article by Savas Akin headlined "Prime minister fine tuning for riot
police!", published by Turkish newspaper Star website on 29 July; subheadings as
published

The Close Protection Branch is planning new measures in response to an increase
in tip-offs about attempts on Erdogan's life, and has asked the Riot Police for
800 officers. The Riot Police turned down this request saying that with only
3,500 officers they would not have sufficient numbers to intervene in incidents.
The crisis was resolved by reassigning some senior police officers.

A new measure has been added to security measures that have already been stepped
up in response to an increase in tip-offs about attempts on the life of Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Last week a system was installed on the vehicles
providing protection for Prime Minister Erdogan that has a 360-degree field of
image and can scan buildings, license plates and faces along the prime
minister's route enabling suspicious activity to be dealt with. This has been
followed by a shake-up of the Istanbul Police HQ relating to work on protecting
the prime minister.

They will protect only the prime minister

A new plan was developed by the Branch for Close Protection of Senior State
Officials with the idea of increasing protection for Prime Minister, who makes
frequent trips to Istanbul for contacts. Accordingly, 800 police officers from
the Istanbul Riot Police Force have been tasked with protecting the prime
minister and providing security for the locations to be visited by the prime
minister during his trips to Istanbul. Police officers from the Riot Squad are
already assigned to the prime minister's Istanbul programmes, but with this new
arrangement the only task for the 800 riot police officers to be chosen will be
to undertake security arrangements during the prime minister's trips to
Istanbul.

Crisis within the police

The fact that the police officers demanded of the Istanbul Riot Squad Force by
the Branch for Close Protection of Senior State Officials will only be assigned
to Prime Minister Erdogan's programmes and will not be assigned to cover other
social incidents created a crisis within the Istanbul Police HQ. Officials with
the Riot Squad, which has only 3,500 officers in Istanbul, objected to this
request at first. Riot Squad chiefs expressed concern that they would be
understaffed anyway bearing in mind that the soccer season opens in a few weeks
and their officers will have to police soccer matches; that plus the scheduled
referendum. They rejected the request made by the Branch for the Close
Protection of Senior State Officials. However, it has been alleged that the
defiant Riot Forces senior officers were reassigned and that the decision was
then implemented.

Leads to string pulling

Furthermore, some officials are saying that the practice of not giving other
assignments to those Riot Police officer assigned especially to protect the
prime minister will lead to discrimination within the police in the future and
reinforce string pulling within the force. Reportedly, a solution is being
sought within the Istanbul Police Force for this new arrangement.

Source: Star website, Istanbul, in Turkish 29 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                      June 2, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Racism in Canada escalating, riots in cities feared, poll finds

BYLINE: WAYNE LOWRIE; SOUTHAM NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1/FRONT

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Racism in Canada is a serious and escalating problem and many Canadians predict
a repeat of last month's Toronto race riots in their own community, an Angus
Reid poll indicates.

The poll, taken for Southam News, found most Canadians - 55 per cent - feel
racism in the country is increasing, either by a little (28 per cent) or a lot
(27 per cent).

Only 8 per cent think racism is on the decline while 35 per cent say people's
attitudes are about the same.

Opinions are strongest in Quebec, where 62 per cent say racist views are
increasing.

The poll - taken May 21-26, just weeks after hundreds in Toronto rioted to
protest against the police shooting of a black man - found most Torontonians and
Montrealers think the riot will be repeated in their cities.

Seventy-one per cent of Toronto residents think there will be more rioting.
Twenty-five per cent say more riots are "very likely" while 46 per cent say
further unrest is "fairly likely."

In Montreal, 59 per cent think there will be race riots in their city. Eighteen
per cent feel riots are "very likely," 41 per cent say they are "fairly likely."

Only 5 per cent of Vancouverites say riots in their city are "very likely"
although 31 per cent concede racial unrest is "fairly likely."

Outside of Canada's three largest cities, most Canadians (63 per cent) think the
chances of a race riot are remote.

But in an apparent contradiction, most Canadians write off the Toronto riots as
hooliganism, not the result of pent-up anger over racism, the poll says.

Still, the Reid pollsters found, most Canadians think racism is a serious
problem. Forty-four per cent say racism is a "fairly" serious problem and
another 18 per cent rank it one of the most serious. Thirty per cent rate racism
as minor when compared with the country's other problems while 6 per cent say
it's not a problem at all.

Many Canadians feel federal immigration policies are partly responsible for
Canada's racial troubles, the poll found. Fifty- eight per cent say high
immigration levels are changing the face of the country faster than Canadians
can adjust. That feeling was highest - 62 per cent - in B.C., where thousands of
Hong Kong residents have found a new home in recent years.

(Last week, a report on population trends projected 17.7 per cent of Canadians
will be members of a visible minority by the turn of the century. That figure
will rise to 44 per cent of Toronto residents and 39 per cent of Vancouverites
by 2001, said the study by T. John Samuel, a professor at Carleton University in
Ottawa. Montreal, Edmonton, Calgary and Winnipeg will have 20 to 25 per cent
visible minorities by then.)

But despite our concern over racism, most Canadians say we're a lot better off
than our American neighbors. Nearly half - 48 per cent - say the racial climate
here is "much better" than in the United States while 36 per cent call it
"somewhat better" in Canada. Thirteen per cent says it's about the same.

The pollsters telephoned 1,502 Canadians for the poll and say the results are
accurate within 2.5 percentage points, 19 times in 20.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            January 22, 2016 Friday

' 84 riots file goes missing from Delhi govt's home department

BYLINE: By Kumar Kunal in New Delhi

LENGTH: 613  words


THE ARVIND Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party government can be in an embarrassing
situation as a file - related to constitution of a Special Investigation Team to
probe the 1984 anti-Sikh carnage - is reportedly missing from the Delhi
government's home department since last 10 months. The file was last marked to
then Delhi home minister Jitender Singh Tomar, but has been untraceable since
then. This can jeopardise the SIT investigation into the riots and could result
in a further delay in the crucial probe. After attempts to find the missing file
failed, deputy secretary (Home) Ashish Kumar issued a circular to all
departments on January 8, requesting all the concerned officers to "kindly look
into their respective departments" and see if the file could be found and
"kindly returned to the home department". The circular, signed by Kumar on
January 7, specified that the same was being issued with prior approval of the
competent authority.

According to a copy of the circular in possession of MAIL TODAY, it says: "It is
to bring to the notice of all those concerned that a file (no. 10/R-
68/01/2014/HP-II bearing CD no. 001315833) regarding the constitution of Special
Investigation Team (1984 Riots), pertaining to Home-II Branch, was marked to
then home minister on March 16, 2015, after which the said file is not
traceable." When MAIL TODAY contacted Home Minister Satyendra Jain over the
missing file, he denied the report and dismissed it as a rumour. The AAP
government has repeatedly raised the issue of 1984 riot victims. It recently
gave out an additional Rs.5 lakh compensation to the families of riot victims.
It has also promised fast-track justice to the riot victims, who have been
waiting for it since more than 31 years after the carnage on Capital's streets.
The SIT was constituted for re-investigation into the 1984 riot cases, mainly in
Delhi and other states, by the Union home ministry in February last year. The
newly-constituted three-member SIT was also empowered to examine fresh evidence
in cases which had been closed. The SIT had been given powers to look into all
serious criminal cases relating to the riots, examine evidence and even re-open
cases and file charge sheets in the courts concerned. A senior home ministry
official had then said that the SIT had been given six months to complete its
work, including filing of charge sheets in nearly threedecade old cases. The
SIT, headed by Pramod Asthana, an IPS officer of 1986 batch and has Rakesh
Kapoor, a retired district and sessions judge and Kumar Gyanesh, Additional
Deputy Commissioner of Delhi Police as its members. As the BJP-led NDA
government's move to set up the SIT into the riots came at a time when Assembly
polls were scheduled to be held in the Capital, the Aam Aadmi Party, which swept
the elections, had then termed it a "poll gimmick" by the saffron party. The
issue of the missing file has surfaced at a crucial time for the AAP when the
party is putting all its forced behind the 2017 Punjab Assembly elections. The
party had won four of Punjab's 13 Lok Sabha seats with a vote share of 25 per
cent. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal himself kicked off the party's poll
campaign in the state during a recent visit to Muktsar.

' 84 riots file goes  missing from  Delhi govt's home  department PAGE ' 84
riots file goes  missing from  Delhi govt's home  department PAGE ' 84 riots
file goes  missing from  Delhi govt's home  department PAGE ' 84 riots file goes
missing from  Delhi govt's home  department PAGE ' 84 riots file goes  missing
from  Delhi govt's home  department PAGE

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    November 17, 2001 Saturday Final EDITION

Riot report exposes prison flaws: Inmates involved in Drumheller security setup

BYLINE: Grant Robertson, Chris Varcoe and Suzanne Wilton, with, files from
Shelley Knapp, Calgary Herald

SOURCE: Calgary Herald

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: DRUMHELLER


Inmates at Drumheller penitentiary have intimate knowledge of its security,
which allows them to break out of cells during riots, according to a
confidential report prepared by the guards' union.

"The inmates are regularly called upon to work on the construction, the
renovation and the maintenance of the safety and security infrastructures within
the prison," says a copy of the report obtained by the Herald in the wake of a
deadly riot at the federal institution this week.

Prisoners are "perfectly familiar with all the (security) mechanisms in place
and are accordingly able to side-step them or disable them during a riot," the
document says.

The 10-page investigation details the chain of events surrounding another riot
at the penitentiary in May, which caused more than $1 million damage to the
institution in Drumheller, about 140 kilometres northeast of Calgary.

Prison officials, however, said concerns raised since the last riot have all
been addressed.

"I don't see any common ties to these events," said assistant warden Bob Lytle.

Several issues raised in the report -- such as the safety of corrections
officers and the systematic breaching of security by inmates -- are again in
question after a bloody uprising Monday night.

Inmates rioted for more than five hours, resulting in the death of one prisoner
and the hospitalization of another. The killing of 21-year-old Jarett Jabbs,
allegedly stabbed and beaten to death by other prisoners, is being investigated
as a homicide, RCMP said Friday.

Such problems have run deep at the troubled institution. Since 1997, Alberta's
largest medium security prison has been plagued by three major riots, inmate
deaths and a long list of escapes from the adjacent minimum-security annex.

The report says the prison was chronically understaffed leading up to May's
riot, including the absence of senior managers who did not work nights.

Particular criticism is aimed at the prison's work program, which allows inmates
to work construction jobs that reveal weaknesses in the prison's infrastructure.

A similar investigation into the May riot was also completed by Correctional
Service of Canada, a federal agency responsible for the country's 52 prisons.
That report has not been made public.

The May 12 riot was instigated by the assault of two guards during a drug
seizure three days earlier, which caused tensions at the prison to rise.

The guards' report describes how inmates were able to break out of their cells
during the riot by smashing through cinderblock walls.

"The infrastructures are inadequate," says the report.

"It is not normal that inmates are able to break through cell doors, smash walls
and rip off railings for use as demolition instruments."

Lytle acknowledged the prison was understaffed before the riot, but said several
concerns raised in the report were addressed by an internal inquiry done in the
weeks following the riot.

Four guards, rather than two, have been stationed in each of the prison's four
units, while managers are now required to work night and weekend shifts, Lytle
said.

Despite increased security, the extent of the damage done during Monday night's
riot is expected to exceed the May uprising. Preliminary damage estimates are
pegged at $800,000.

A move to reinforce walls with steel panels to prevent cell breaks had only been
completed on three of the four units when Monday night's riot began.

Jabbs, who was serving two-year sentence after stealing a car and going missing
from a Calgary halfway house, was said to be disliked by a group of prisoners.
It is believed he tried to lock himself inside his own cell when inmates bashed
through the wall to get at him, sources told the Herald.

The report has outlined problems with "cascading" -- a process where violent,
maximum security inmates are quickly moved to lower classifications as they are
rehabilitated.

The report also singles out overcrowding as a problem at the prison. At the time
of the May riot, the average number of inmates per unit was roughly 140.
Drumheller's units were built to handle 126 inmates. There are now about 122
inmates in each unit.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Crown seeks to televise riot cases; Spokesman says it may be first time in B.C.
application made to broadcast court proceedings

BYLINE: Neal Hall, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 274  words


The Crown gave notice in court Wednesday that the attorney general wants to
televise proceedings involving accused Stanley Cup rioters.

Prosecutor Patti Tomasson told a judge that the Crown would apply to have the
proceedings televised involving people accused of participating in the June 15
riot. B.C. Premier Christy Clark has said she wants to see riot-related court
proceedings televised for the public.

The prosecutor gave notice Wednesday at the bail hearing of Ryan Dickinson, who
remains in custody. His case was adjourned until Friday at 9 a.m. at Vancouver
Provincial Court.

Dickinson is accused of participating in a riot, mischief and breaching his
undertaking.

Seven other riot-related accused were scheduled to appear Wednesday in Vancouver
provincial court.

They are: Spencer Kirkwood, Oliver Burke, Anthony Larsen, Matthew Lennox, Jeff
Post, Robert Snelgrove and Sophie Laboissonniere. Laboissonniere, 20, reportedly
won the title of Miss Congeniality at the recent Miss Coastal Vancouver Pageant.

She is accused of taking part in the looting of the London Drugs store during
the riot as well as break-and-enter and participating in a riot.

Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said outside court Wednesday that he believes it
is the first time the Crown has applied to broadcast court proceedings.

He said the Crown has assigned one prosecutor to handle the broadcast
applications.

There are five prosecutors assigned to handle the riot cases. So far, the Crown
has approved riot-related charges against 27 people.

The Crown is still assessing another two dozen files of accused people that
Vancouver police have recommended should be charged.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 12, 2011 Saturday

Riot retribution a hope, not a certainty

BYLINE: GARY MASON

SECTION: COLUMN; STANLEY CUP VIOLENCE; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


gmason@globeandmail.com

Those potentially facing charges related to the Stanley Cup riot must have
shuddered with relief this week when news broke that the first person to be
sentenced in connection with the rampage effectively received a public spanking
and little more.

Karanvir Singh Saran, 18, received an absolute discharge after pleading guilty
to being in possession of stolen property taken the night of the uprising. Bad
boy, the judge said. Don't ever do it again.

The case, it turns out, had slipped through the cracks of the wider riot
investigation being directed by the Vancouver Police Department and that
recently led to the force recommending 163 charges against 60 people with the
promise of hundreds more to follow. The Crown is widely expected to accept the
VPD's counsel and press ahead with charges in virtually every instance.

But so what if rioters are already getting off scot-free?

There is an important aspect of the Saran decision that largely accounts for the
young man's good fortune: he was not charged with "taking part in a riot."

This, it turns out, is the Criminal Code abuse that packs the most wallop as far
as riots are concerned, and so consequently is the contravention with which the
police are hoping to nail as many people as possible in connection with this
year's Stanley Cup riot. It's the main reason Chief Jim Chu has insisted on such
a thorough and complete investigation, despite receiving heavy criticism for the
length of time it's taken.

It should be noted that of the 60 people named in phase one of its
investigation, the VPD is recommending that each be charged with "taking part in
a riot."

"The Saran case proves exactly what happens when you rush a case to court," said
Chief Chu. "You get a slap on the wrist."

For those cynical about the court's appetite for getting heavy with rioters,
particularly those with no previous criminal history, Chief Chu points to a 1992
B.C. Court of Appeal decision that will undoubtedly play a profound role in the
sentences handed out in connection with the 2011 Vancouver riot.

At the centre of the case was an 18-year-old Penticton, B.C., man named George
Loewen. In the summer of 1991, he was drawn from his home by the sounds of a
rowdy gathering of young people along the shores of Okanagan Lake. Most were
wildly drunk, and when police arrived, events degenerated further.

Mr. Loewen, who had no previous criminal history, got caught up in the madness,
destroying a newspaper box and helping turn over and destroy the iconic Peach
Concession stand. Eventually, he was charged for his involvement and was given
one month in jail on each of two counts of mischief related to property, which
were to run consecutively with a 10-month sentence for taking part in a riot.

Among those handing out sentences at the time in connection to the Penticton
disturbance was the eminent jurist H.A.D. Oliver, who wrote in one instance:
"The people of Penticton are entitled to look to the courts for protection. If
rioting is to go unrestrained and unpunished, violence and mob rule will replace
peaceful government.

"It must be clearly understood that participation in a riot such as this will
inevitably result in substantial terms of imprisonment."

In June, 1992, the appeal court reduced Mr. Loewen's sentence to six months,
largely based on references from acquaintances who described the teenager as
hard-working, honest, dependable and trustworthy. He was also given one year's
probation and ordered to perform 150 hours of community work.

The Loewen decision would later be cited in court cases stemming from the 1994
Vancouver riot.

Neil MacKenzie, spokesman for the B.C. justice branch, said sentencing records
from the 1994 riot are not comprehensive. But according to "anecdotal records,"
about 50 adults initially were charged. "Almost all of the adults convicted of
the offence of taking part in a riot received jail sentences ranging from three
months to one year.

"Overall, they represented roughly one-third of all the adults charged," said
Mr. MacKenzie.

For those hoping that the courts don't go easy on those who trashed downtown
Vancouver after Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final, the Loewen decision offers
hope.

Chief Chu says it is binding on the lower courts and consequently will have
significant impact on the final disposition of many of the 2011 riot cases.

Maybe. But I still can't shake the feeling that Karanvir Saran won't be the last
person charged in connection with the riot to walk away from court with a smile
on his face.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 11, 2016 Friday

Grabbing back: Russian activist collective Pussy Riot takes on U.S. politics

BYLINE: Jennifer Levin, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 925 words


Nov. 11--The Russian punk performance artists collectively known as Pussy Riot
worked hard to prevent Donald Trump from becoming president of the United
States. In late October, they released two videos directed at Trump and the
American electoral process. The first song, "Straight Outta Vagina," leaves
their punk-rock musical stylings behind for a pop-rap sound, but the video, made
in collaboration with TV on the Radio's Dave Sitek, retains Pussy Riot's
infamous rebellious thrust and mixes it with a grimy art-school aesthetic. Women
in slips stand at urinals; a little girl raps; handsome men wear fire-engine red
high heels -- all of them intermittently masked in balaclavas, which Pussy Riot
has in the past used to conceal the members' identities -- as they lip-synch to
the chorus: "Don't play stupid, don't play dumb, vagina's where you're really
from." It is a rallying cry against the inherent fear many men seem to have of
women who seek power -- and it is a subversive earworm for anyone who might be
made uncomfortable by the sentiment.

In 2012, two members of Pussy Riot were imprisoned for performing an anti-Putin
"punk prayer" at the Cathedral of Christ the Savior, a Russian Orthodox church
in Moscow, because it was deemed "hooliganism motivated by religious hatred."
One of them, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova -- known as Nadya -- stars in the second
recently released Pussy Riot video, "Make America Great Again," appearing both
as herself and as several police and authority figures. The song takes the same
surreal approach to American hip-hop as "Straight Outta Vagina," but this tune
serves as a soundtrack for a short film that envisions a dystopic Trump
presidency in which police, journalists, and others will be made to style their
hair just like Trump. The video presents a brutal vision of the future for
anyone who is not white, conservative, heterosexual, and willing to fall in line
with the new regime. In this world, women are killed for getting abortions,
while live-streaming the sexual assault of prisoners via a "Trump-cam" has
become standard protocol.

On Sunday, Nov. 13, the Lensic Performing Arts Center and Meow Wolf present "A
Conversation with Pussy Riot," featuring two members, Alexandra (Sasha) Bogino
and Maria (Masha) Alyokhina, the latter of whom was imprisoned for 21 months for
the action at the church. The moderated event addresses the group's protest
against human rights injustices in Russia and elsewhere, and the women will take
questions from the audience. After their release from prison in December 2013,
Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova co-founded the human rights organization Zona Prava
and the alternative media group MediaZona. Alyokhina's recent artistic endeavors
outside of Pussy Riot include working with the Belarus Free Theatre on a play
called Burning Doors, which looks at the experiences of persecuted artists
living under dictatorships. Bogino is a journalist with MediaZona, for which she
writes articles and reports about the Russian protest movement, violence in
Russian law enforcement, prisons, the military, and prison abolition, among
other topics.

Pussy Riot has been written about by journalists and academics around the world,
their form of protest embraced and defended by such venerated musicians as Sting
and Madonna. Their legal case was adopted by Amnesty International and other
human rights groups. Still, it is questionable how well Western audiences, with
our assumption that freedom of personal expression is one of the main points of
making art, really understand what Pussy Riot is fighting for. Musical
virtuosity is not their main agenda, though getting the attention of
international media is an obvious priority. That the music is a bit silly or
even actively bad only helps the cause because it is invariably provocative.
According to Tolokonnikova in an Oct. 31 interview in The New York Times, the
collective was inspired to name itself Pussy Riot because of the band Bikini
Kill, whose lead singer Kathleen Hanna's Riot Grrrl movement of the 1990s helped
usher in third-wave American feminism. "Pussy Riot is just kind of a cosplay
version of Riot Grrrl," Tolokonnikova said, which can be taken as an admission
that Pussy Riot is not a punk rock band but instead reinterprets an established
idea for their own ends.

While backlash against feminism in the United States sometimes includes
religious positions, if American women broke into a church to sing about gender
oppression, they would be unlikely to face jail time. The risk Pussy Riot takes
in expressing their opinions in such a way currently has no equivalence in our
legal system. Though they now travel and speak internationally about their
activities, they are not beloved celebrities in Russia but women who must fear
for their safety when they are recognized in public. In a 2012 essay for
Sightings, a publication of the University of Chicago Divinity School,
theologian Larisa Reznik explains that though it is not illegal to be a feminist
in Russia, equality between the sexes is not recognized by the Orthodox Church,
which is deeply entwined with the government. The judge hearing the case against
Pussy Riot established "a uniform 'Orthodox Christianity,' whose constitutive
feature is an opposition to equality between men and women, so much so that any
challenge to this inequality constitutes an act of hatred."

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161111-SF-Grabbing-back-Russian-activist-collective-Pussy-Riot
-takes-on-U-S-politics-1111-20161111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

Delhi Court reopens 1984 anti-Sikh riots case against Jagdish Tytler

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, April 11 -- A Delhi court on Wednesday ordered reopening of a 1984
anti-Sikh riots case against Congress leader Jagdish Tytler setting aside the
trial court order accepting a CBI closure report giving him a clean chit.

Tytler was among the three prominent leaders named in the reports on the
anti-Sikh riots. The other two leaders named were Sajjan Kumar and the late H K
L Bhagat.

The 1984 riots had claimed the lives of more than 3,000 Sikhs. The riots were
triggered following the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi
on October 31, 1984, by her two Sikh bodyguards at her residence.

The Government of India had reported 2,700 deaths in the riots. It further said
that 20,000 people had fled the city following the riots.

Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj, setting aside the
order of a magisterial court, has directed the CBI to examine the eye-witnesses
and people who have information about the riots.

The ASJ said: "The order of the trial court accepting the closure report of the
CBI is set aside."

"The CBI is directed to conduct the investigation and examine the claimants and
eye-witnesses in the case," the judge ruled.

The court passed the order on a petition filed by riot victims challenging the
order of the trial court accepting the CBI's closure report in 2009.

Senior counsel H S Phoolka, who appeared for petitioner Lakhwinder Kaur, whose
husband was killed in the riots, had submitted to the court of the ASJ that
there was enough material against Tytler which the probe agency had ignored. He
said there was evidence before the trial court against Tytler. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            December 26, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

There's a riot goin' on;
L.A. Riots bring their dual-DJ mix to Boulder

BYLINE: Wendy Kale kale@coloradodaily.com

SECTION: COLORADO DAILY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 487 words


If you go

Who:

L.A. Riots

When:

9 tonight

Where:

Fox Theatre, 1135 13th St.

Cost:

$10

www.foxtheatre.com

I

t's the weekend after Christmas, but that's not stopping local venues from
hosting a full slate of cool shows.

Many locals hunkered down and stayed in Boulder this holiday week. Now, they can
check out L.A. Riots at the Fox Theatre and the Motet's Talking Heads show at
the Boulder Theater.

L.A. Riots

Get ready to start your New Year's party a little early. That's because L.A.'s
premier electro dance party, aka L.A. Riots, is getting ready to invade the Fox
tonight.

L.A. Riots creates a pulsating DJ mix of electro sounds and the group is gaining
note around the globe.

The mixmasters -- Daniel LeDisko and Jo'B -- are also known for their work with
remixes. A-list acts Justice, Method Man and Timbaland regularly call on L.A.
Riots to join them in the recording studio.

"We're a pretty new act, but we've been part of the L.A. scene for six years,"
LeDisko said. "We were drum 'n' bass DJs and then we became producers.

"L.A. is ground zero for music and it's a jump-off point for electro music. So
we get to work and perform in our own backyard."

The DJs use the tracks they've re-worked for famous artists and incorporate them
into the live show.

"We use the mixes to make our own music," LeDisko said. "We've each DJ'd for 15
years and we have a definite signature sound.

"Now we're getting hit up to do remixes for all these acts and we

play all over the world."

Motet does Talking Heads

If something works, you have to stick with the plan.

Every Halloween, the Motet comes up with a new band to cover. The group's
already paid tribute to Madonna and Prince, but last October the band really hit
its stride.

The local groove outfit decided to perform its own twist on early Talking Heads
material -- and the show was the highlight of Boulder's infamous Halloween week.

The Motet will now revive the popular concert at the Boulder Theater. Saturday's
show will feature the same crew of top-rate players and the band will close out
2008 in '80s style.

"Every night of the Halloween run sold out," bandleader Dave Watts said. "It was
the perfect storm; we had waited so long to do this and people were ready for
it.

"Definitely having a great line-up of players helped. People were really excited
about the whole thing."

The top-rate players are returning for round two of the Motet's Talking Heads
show. The elite line-up features Kyle Hollingsworth of String Cheese Incident,
Fuzz from Deep Banana Blackout, Jans Ingber and Liza Oxnard.

"There might be some surprise tunes we throw in, but we feel the music worked
out so well the last time," Watts said. "We don't want to mess things up. If it
ain't broke, then don't fix it."

Watts and his band mates have future plans for their Talking Heads tribute
concert. If all goes well, the group hopes to take the show to music festivals
in 2009 and Jam Cruise 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: L.A. Riots perform tonight at the Fox Theatre. Courtesy photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday
                                Final C Edition

Riot suspect held in custody pending bail; Suspected Stanley Cup rioter Dustin
Anderson accused of assaulting a firefighter

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 321  words


Dustin Anderson, the latest per-son to be charged with taking part in last
summer's Stanley Cup riot, has been arrested and remains in custody pending a
bail hearing.

Anderson, 21, of Burnaby, made a brief appearance in Vancouver Provincial Court
on Wednesday and was ordered held in custody.

He is scheduled to appear in court today for a bail hearing on charges of taking
part in a riot and assault.

He is alleged to have been captured on video hitting a firefighter and taunting
a police officer. He was also alleged to be filmed pouring milk over his head
after being pepper-sprayed.

Crown has approved 77 charges against 30 accused rioters. Police have
recommended 215 charges against 80 suspected rioters. The charges relate to the
mob riot and destruction that occurred on June 15, after the Vancouver Canucks
lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final.

Those who have been charged are beginning to make court appearances.

Robert Snelgrove, 25, who is charged with break and enter and participating in a
riot, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court on Wednesday briefly and will be
back in court on Jan. 31.

Spencer Kirkwood, 25, who is up on participating in a riot and mischief charges,
had his case moved to Jan. 26.

Jeff Post, charged with participating in a riot and mischief, had a lawyer
appear on his behalf and will be back in court Feb. 1.

The most recent people to be charged in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot include a
woman whose name appeared in an apology posted online after the violence last
June.

Vancouver police say 21-year-old Camille Cacnio of Richmond is charged with
taking part in a riot and break and enter.

After she was identified as a riot suspect, Cacnio lost her job at a car
dealership and a message under her name was posted online.

The message apologized to the people of Vancouver, Cacnio's family and friends,
her former employer, a store that was robbed and the Vancouver Canucks.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Procaylo - PNG; Spencer Kirkwood also appeared in court on charges
related to the riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Mulayam, on equal footing of Modi

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 27 -- After UP riots, some UPA ministers said Mulayam is on the
same path of Modi's secularism. He said both faltered by sending police late.
This happens in every riot situation. Otherwise, if police were present at any
spot then riots would not take place. Story of Uttar Pradesh is simple, when
Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) comes to power Dalit community gains and when
Samajwadi Party (SP) comes to power Muslim community enjoys. It's caste based
politics in UP. However, the scenario in Gujarat is different. Modi can be
compared only with himself, and no Mulayam can match his caliber. 'Secular'
Congress has washed its hands with blood in repeated communal riots. Although
police and government administrators were present there, still this riot
happened. In 1947 when Nehru was Prime Minister, the country witnessed communal
riots affecting Punjab and Bengal states. Around five lakh people lost their
lives. In 1964, more than two thousand people were killed in communal clashes in
Jamshedpur. At that time, the State was ruled by KB Sahay. In 1969 saw around
2000 people getting slaughtered in severe communal clashes in Ahmedabad during
the Hitendra Desai-led Congress. Major communal clashes erupted in nation since
Independence - more than 90 per cent of the bloody clashes took place during the
Congress Government. In 1970, at Bhiwandi, more than hundred and sixty people
lost their lives during Congress government.

Around two hundred people were killed in UP's Moradabad in 1980. In 1983, around
five thousand people lost their lives in Assam's communal riots. Sikhs in 1984
were selected and targeted in Delhi and Haryana, after the assassination of then
PM Indira Gandhi. In 1985, Gujarat again witnessed a bloody communal riot that
claimed around two hundred and seventy five lives during Madhav Sinh Solanki's
government. More than fifty people lost their lives in Meerut in 1987. In 1989,
more than eleven hundred people lost their lives in Bhagalpur, Bihar. Hyderabad
in 1990 witnessed a bloody communal violence that claimed around three hundred
lives. In 1992, more than one hundred and fifty people were killed in communal
clash in Surat. Can we really think Congress is riots free government and still
think that Congress is a secular party? Comparing Modi to somebody when riots
take place is not fair. These UPA's chicken headed politician's needs study and
be updated before commenting over such severe issues.

This is an indication of bursting of secular balloon and scope of an alliance
between RLD and BJP in western UP. Now, Modi is no more an untouchable and
communalist for UPA's allies. This statement becomes important as Nitish made
all hue and cries and left NDA on Modi's nomination at national level. Congress
ministers always forget the facts and figures of riots sponsored by them. So
far, in India, maximum riots took place during Congress regime. There are
tangible wedges between the two. Modi has given much from his part like good
governance, improved infrastructure, industralisation without or with less
corruption. Mulayam's image is almost the opposite of him. Mulayam's only
contribution that helps him to win elections is his posture as the Jinnah of UP.
Since no details are available to compare Muzaffarnagar and Godhra, it clearly
shows that there have been many deaths. There may not have been enough police
force to prevent it. Besides, when it spreads to villages, as the reports say,
it becomes totally uncontrollable. It seems wrong to compare Mulayam with anyone
as the chief minister is Akhilesh, not he. One can only say that Mulayam has
failed and he should go back to his original Yadav roots and concentrate on
non-Muslim votes in future as his vote bank.

Godhra riots and Muzaffarnagar riots were different. How can we understand that
Azam Khan is upset with Yadavs, but on deeper introspection it's quite possible
that Mulayam failed to ensure that only non-Muslims be killed in the riots
instigated by Azam Khan? What other explanation they will give? After arresting
11 members of the family of the girl who was molested and not arresting the
Muslims for killing two Hindu boys for months, Mulayam finally put pressure to
arrest Muslim boys also. Downplaying the rift within Samajwadi Party over how
the Muzaffarnagar riots were handled, Azam Khan skipped the party's national
executive meet to lodge his protest over the killing of Muslims in Muzaffarnagar
riots. Anyways, the party is unaffected by Azam Khan's act. If the person is not
willing to abide by the duties of his post, he might as well resign. Azam Khan
also criticised the state government for its alleged faulty handling of
situation in Muzaffarnagar. The death toll in the communal clashes in
Muzaffarnagar and adjoining towns has increased to 48. Amidst tension and a
polarised environment, demands for Akhilesh Yadav to step down are growing. The
UP government tried to polarise its people. They did not control the riots, in
fact they promoted it.

Even the Centre has not issued any advisory, post Muzaffarnagar communal
violence.

Vaidehi Sachin

Group Editor

NBC

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 10, 2004 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Police grab riot robbery suspect

BYLINE: Debra Jopson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


Sydney police yesterday arrested the man they were seeking the day teenager
Thomas "TJ" Hickey was fatally impaled on a metal fence, sparking last month's
Redfern riot.

Police yesterday had to chase the man, 25, who was riding a bicycle, a short
distance on foot before arresting him in connection with a bag-snatch robbery on
February 14, said Detective Inspector Darren Bennett, crime manager of Redfern
police.

The hunt for a man who was recorded on video camera snatching a bag near the
Redfern railway station the Saturday that 17-year-old TJ crashed his bike, is a
key point of conflict between local Aborigines and police.

TJ's family alleged that police chased him to his death. Police denied this and
have used the search for the suspect to explain the high police presence around
the Redfern housing estate where TJ was killed.

"They were patrolling in the area for this person when the accident with Hickey
took place," Mr Bennett said. "They weren't chasing anyone. That was the person
they were looking for on this day."

The man was arrested as part of the police's Strike Force Time Piece, set up to
investigate the February 15 riot in which Aborigines hurled bricks and bottles
at police from the notorious Block area of Redfern.

A 20th person was arrested yesterday over the riot and Mr Bennett said that
"significant numbers" of further arrests were planned.

Police were proceeding carefully in a bid to "get people when they are
isolated," to avoid any further riots, he said. He described as speculation
reports that the riots were not a direct result of TJ's death, but a payback
organised by drug dealers for drug raids on the Block, with bricks stockpiled
well in advance.

There had been police "drug-related activity" and a number of arrests on the
Block in the days before the riot, Mr Bennett said. But he said police did not
know whether the riot had been planned before TJ's death.

"There's things that have come up in the course of the inquiry, including the
stockpiling of rocks and other things. That's subject to speculation and it's
formed part of our inquiry, but there's no conclusion yet."

TJ's aunt, Virginia Hickey, said there had been no stockpiling before the riot.
She said she had seen people going around the Block as the riot started,
gathering things out of the garbage to hurl at police.

At least five of those arrested were TJ's immediate family members and one young
woman was a close friend, she said.

"There would have been no riot if this accident hadn't occurred," Ms Hickey
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three photos: LEFT: The man police were hunting is recorded by a
security camera during a bag-snatch on February 14; ABOVE: Police line up
against Aborigines during the Redfern riot; RIGHT: Thomas ``TJ'' Hickey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday

Reading Eagle, Pa., My 2 Cents column

BYLINE: Anthony Orozco, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 256 words


Dec. 21--A New York police officer used a banned chokehold to subdue Eric
Garner.

I was heartbroken to learn that officer will not have his actions adjudicated in
a court of law (even though the coroner ruled Garner's death as a homicide
caused by the chokehold and chest compression, and the incident was caught on
video).

In the wake of Garner's death, I have seen what pundits are saying about the
visceral public response to multiple recent police killings of unarmed black
boys and men.

Not only does this re-enforce my decision to not watch television, but it also
demonstrates the lack of historical context of many news outlets.

I am a pacifist. I do not condone violence, and I do not think anyone should be
punished without their day in court.

But those who say the civil rights movement was "won" solely by the pacifist
front, and that protestors today are more violent or unreasonable than in the
past, are conveniently forgetting entire segments of history. Below is a list of
events that flanked the nonviolent wing of the civil rights movement:

--Rochester riot of 1964

--New York City riot of 1964

--Philadelphia riot of 1964

--Watts riot of 1965

--Cleveland riots of 1966

--Chicago riots of 1966

--Detroit riot of 1967

--Plainfield riot of 1967

--King assassination riots in 1968 in more than 120 cities in the United States.

Contact Anthony Orozco: 610-371-5015 or aorozco@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2014 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141221-RE-Reading-Eagle-Pa-My-2-Cents-column-1221-20141221

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2014 Reading Eagle


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Post-riots, UPA to push for communal violence bill

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 611 words


NEW DELHI: More than a month after communal riots in Muzaffarnagar claimed over
50 lives and less than six months before the Lok Sabha poll, the Union home
ministry has dusted the draft communal violence bill, hanging fire since 2005.
Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde on Monday said he was working on
provisions of the Bill, some of which are being objected to by parties like the
BJP as well as state governments.

Stating that the MHA was moving ahead with the Prevention of Communal and
Targeted Violence Bill that aims to protect minorities against targeted attacks,
Shinde said he had "sought details of the bill from the concerned department".
"The work has begun on the bill," he told reporters.

The push for the bill also came from minority affairs minister K Rahman Khan,
who noted that the Muzaffarnagar riots had underlined inadequacies in existing
laws to deal with communal clashes. He pitched for tabling of the anti-riots
Bill in the ensuing winter session, but added that "the decision has to be taken
by the government."

When asked if the bill could come up in winter session, Shinde said he was not
sure.

The bill has been gathering dust despite being cleared by a parliamentary
standing committee in end-2006. Though the parliamentary panel was able to
resolve differences over a controversial provision that allowed the Centre to
send forces on its own to a communally disturbed area, it could not be
subsequently taken up by Parliament despite notices being given for its
consideration and passage in successive sessions.

Then came the intervention by Sonia Gandhi-headed National Advisory Council
(NAC), which decided to re-examine the bill in 2010 and came up with a revised
draft bill in 2011. The controversial provisions in this new draft ran into
opposition from the ministries of home as well as law, especially the one
providing for penalizing of government officials who failed to prevent or
control communal violence. There was also opposition to only "minorities" being
recognized as the group targeted during riots.

Another controversial provision that ran foul with many state governments
related to creation of a National Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and
Reparation with sweeping powers to probe occurrence or likely occurrence of
communal riots and also to review effectiveness of steps taken by government
officials towards prevention of communal violence.

The NAC draft almost pushed the communal violence bill into cold storage.
However, with the Muzaffarnagar riots renewing demands for enactment of an anti-
riots bill, the Union home ministry has now revived efforts to streamline
divergence of opinion over its provisions.

The demand for enactment of the anti-riots bill is expected to dominate
proceedings at the convention against communalism scheduled for October 30.
Being organized by non-Congress and non-BJP parties, it will mount pressure on
the UPA to have a strong legal framework in place to deal with riots and
rehabilitate riot victims.

Congress appeared in favour of the bill. Spokesman Sandeep Dikshit said the bill
was "pending discussion" but underlined it was an important legislation that
would have a far-reaching effect.

After the Muzaffarnagar violence, CPM's full Polit Bureau meeting had said the
violence in western UP has come in the "background of the systematic efforts to
raise communal tensions and provoke violence by the RSS outfits." CPM also
blamed the Uttar Pradesh administration for not being vigilant. The party said,
"In this connection, the Polit Bureau wants the Prevention of Communal Violence
Bill to be taken up expeditiously and adopted."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

One-month sentence surprises rioter;
Lawyer says jail term for 20-year-old Surrey man might make other troublemakers
think twice about coming forward to admit guilt

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 659 words


He turned himself in, quickly pleaded guilty, and didn't have a prior criminal
record - Emmanuel Alviar thought those factors would keep him out of jail,
despite his participation in last June's Stanley Cup riot.

He was wrong. The slight 20-year-old from Surrey was sentenced to one month in
custody Monday - a punishment his lawyer said might make other rioters think
twice about coming forward to admit guilt.

"Many more might have come forward had they seen that there was going to be just
a conditional sentence," Gary Botting told reporters outside Vancouver
Provincial Court. "It would seem that from the reasons that the judge gives that
it would be now unreasonable for any other judge to give less of a deterrence. A
conditional sentence is now pretty well not a possibility."

Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final was coming to a close when Mr. Alviar and four
youths headed to downtown Vancouver last June. A riot - the city's second hockey
riot in 17 years - broke out after the hometown Canucks were defeated by the
Boston Bruins.

Mr. Alviar participated in the riot at three different points. In the first
instance, he kicked debris toward a vehicle that had been lit on fire. The
debris did not make contact. Second, Mr. Alviar began pushing a parked vehicle.
That led others to join in. Mr. Alviar quickly backed away, but the vehicle
would be badly damaged and written off.

In the third instance, Mr. Alviar threw a street barricade at a large window.

Mr. Alviar apologized to the people of Vancouver during a sentencing hearing
last month. His lawyer asked the court to issue a conditional sentence, while
the Crown sought a four-month jail term.

Judge Reg Harris said the objectives of denunciation and deterrence would not be
achieved if Mr. Alviar received a conditional sentence, but four months would
have been too severe.

"The need for substantial deterrence is borne out by the size of the riot, the
duration of the riot, the harm caused by the riot, and, significantly, this is
the second time that Vancouver has experienced a hockey-associated riot," the
judge said. "These factors show that there are a large group of persons who are
prepared to be involved in a riot, should the opportunity present itself. These
persons need to be deterred."

Judge Harris said the sentence would ensure Mr. Alviar's development was not
harmed by entrenched criminals, and also send a message to those who engage in
public disorder.

Mr. Alviar must serve a 16-month probation term once he's released from custody,
and complete 150 hours of community service. He must also write apology letters
to the mayor and police chief. He will likely spend three weeks at Fraser
Regional Correctional Centre before he's released, Mr. Botting said.

Mr. Alviar - dressed in a black suit - looked stunned when the sentence was
delivered. He rubbed his eyes before he was led out of the courtroom in
handcuffs. At one point, reporters heard him say, "This is crazy."

Mr. Botting said his client had not believed he would go to jail. Mr. Botting
called the sentence fair, but said a conditional sentence would have been more
appropriate.

Criminal Justice Branch spokeswoman Samantha Hulme said the Crown is satisfied
with the punishment.

Ms. Hulme said she would not speculate on the effect the sentence would have on
other riot cases.

Mr. Alviar was sentenced four days before the one-year anniversary of the riot.
He was the second person to be sentenced for their participation.

The first person, Ryan Dickinson, was handed a 17-month sentence in February,
minus 3½ months credit for time served. Mr. Dickinson's case, however, was
something of an anomaly. Unlikely many of the people charged in the riot, he
already had a criminal record for assault.

Meeting with reporters at an unrelated event in Burnaby, Premier Christy Clark
said of Mr. Alviar, "It's a good thing he's going to see the inside of a jail
cell."

With a file from Ian Bailey

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Reasons behind UK riots debated on Iran's Press TV

LENGTH: 280 words


The 20 August edition of "The Agenda" programme on Iran's English-language Press
TV channel debated the role of Britain's youth in the recent riots in the UK and
social reasons behind the unrest, wondering whether "Britain has created a lost
generation".

The programme was hosted by Yvonne Ridley and featured the co-chair of Black
Activists Rising Against Cuts (BARAC), Zita Holbourne, Conservative political
adviser Andre Walker and Sukant Chandan of Sons of Malcolm.

Walker said that he did not agree with the opinion that Britain had a lost
generation. Referring to the recent riots, he said that there is a group of
people in British society who have decided that "being on benefits is easier
than working". He said that rioters acted in a criminal manner and should be
dealt with accordingly.

Meanwhile, Chandan said that the riots were in the context of what the
government has been doing over the last few decades and linked the riots to
de-industrialization and closure of the mining and steel industry. The expert
also linked the riots to racial discrimination, saying that the police are
biased against black people.

In turn, Holbourne said that all young people want to have dreams and
opportunities, but the government has trampled upon those dreams. She said she
did not agree that young people involved in the riots were lazy and idle.
Holbourne went on to link the riots to tripling tuition fees and high
unemployment.

The programme also read out comments from viewers from around the world who
expressed different views on the causes of riots in the UK.

The programme was monitored from the Press TV website.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 1033 gmt 21 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Police still can't recall who shot 14-year-old with tear gas canister

LENGTH: 608  words


ISTANBUL (CIHAN)- Police officers testifying in an investigation into the
shooting of 14-year-old Berkin Elvan with a tear gas canister during last
summer's Gezi Park protests couldn't remember where they were or what they were
doing on the day of the incident, the Radikal daily reported on Monday.



According to Radikal, each of the seven police officers that testified on Feb. 6
claimed either to have not used a riot gun on the day of the incident or to not
know who used the riot gun that injured Berkin.

The statements resembled those of another group of seven police officers who
gave testimony on the incident in January.

The daily also reported that one of the officers said he didn't remember the
dates or locations of his postings during the Gezi protests.

Berkin was on his way to buy bread on the evening of June 16 when he was hit at
close range with a tear gas canister fired by riot police in Istanbul's
Okmeydani neighborhood, Human Rights Watch reported in June. Berkin has been in
intensive care unit at Istanbul's Okmeydani Hospital for over 268 days. In a
Sunday press release, Elvan family's lawyer said that Berkin weights 16
kilograms and his body's resistance and brain functions are significantly
compromised.

Radikal reported that the police officer Ismail Aydin has claimed that his team
fired no tear gas canisters that day, adding that he did not know who used the
riot gun.

Police officers Cengizhan Kocabas, Uluhan Ulu and Deniz Ulutas said that they
hadn't used riot guns that day because they are not certified to do so. They
also said that, due to the long duration of the protest movement, they were
unable to remember the dates and locations of their postings.

Another police officer, Deniz Arslan, said that though he was licensed to use
riot guns, he was not working on the day Berkin was injured. He learned about
the incident from media outlets, he said. Police officer Ali Keles, who also has
a license for riot guns, testified that he did not fire one on June 16 and that
other officers also licensed to use the rifle were on duty at Okmeydani that
day.

"I do not remember who used it [the riot gun]. I didn't use it. If the riot
police records are checked, we can see who the rifle was registered to that day,
and who used it," Keles added.
Sefa Doyranli, head of the riot-control team posted to the area of the incident,
said he was in Okmeydani on the day the incident took place, but stressed that
he didn't fire the riot gun. "I don't remember who on our team was given a riot
gun," he added.

The daily also reported that the seven police officers who testified on Jan. 30
also claimed to not remember what happened on the day of the incident, or said
they weren't there.

Meanwhile, the Hürriyet daily reported that President Abdullah Gül called
Berkin's father Sami Elvan on Monday and wished the teenager a speedy recovery.
Gül also asked Sami Elvan about the 14-year-old's current condition.

"I feel deeply sorry about what happened. I share your pain. I am closely
following Berkin's situation. Let me know if you need anything," Gül said.

According to Hürriyet, Berkin's father asked Gül to stop police from using force
against people gathering in front of the hospital. Gül said he would call
Istanbul Governor Hüseyin Avni Mutlu and ask him to handle the issue more
sensitively.

Earlier in January, riot police detained 10 protesters who had gathered on
Istanbul's Istiklal Street to demand justice for Berkin. A group of 50
protesters had gathered on Istiklal Street to stage a march in support of the
injured teenager.

(Cihan/Today's Zaman) CIHANCopyright © 2014 Cihan News Agency.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2014 Cihan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Communalism: New Strategies

LENGTH: 2248 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, July 5 -- The communal organizations often propound that there is
peace as there are no riots, at least major riots in the country. They further
propound that there being peace, there was no need for the proposed "Communal
and Target Violence (Access to Justice and Reparations) Bill" or any other
special law to deal with communal riots. That such a legislation would in fact
deepen the communal divide and wounds that were healing. We are not going into
the merits and demerits of the proposed draft of the legislation, which has been
dealt with separately. However, it is an obvious fact that Gujarat 2002 type
riots have not repeated after that.

But this was true even after the 1969 major riots in Ahmedabad in which
according to unofficial estimates over 2,000 people had been killed and 1970
Bhiwandi Jalgaon Mahad riots, equally devastating, only until 1984 when again
there were riots in Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bhiwandi and Mumbai! Throughout 1980s
there were localized riots, including Godhra, Meerut, Maliana, Moradabad,
Aligarh, Bhagalpur etc. of various intensities. These riots in step with the
campaign to mobilize for demolition of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya and construction
of Ram Temple on one hand and opposition to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
the Shahbano Case on the other hand. The mobilization to demolish Babri Masjid
finally culminated in communal riots in 1992-93 in many cities across the length
and breadth of the country, mainly in the Northern and Western Regions,
including Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat.

One explanation of the pattern of violence, given the political mobilization of
various castes and communities to claim their share in the pie of the
opportunities and fruits, could be that communal violence is cyclical and
periodical. The period of the cycle may more or less vary, but the intensity of
violence escalates. Therefore, the present period is more of a lull before the
storm. But lull itself is not so peaceful with series of communal riots on low
scale 8 riots in UP, in Dhule in Maharashtra, etc. The other observation
regarding the pattern of violence could be that the communal organizations are
now less dependent on riots as a tool for communalization and communal
mobilization.

Communal organizations would like to spread a myth that communal riots are a
natural and popular reaction to certain appalling incident like assassination of
Indira Gandhi, killing of Swami Laxmanand or burning of a coach of Sabarmati
Express, Communal violence is orchestrated to achieve certain objectives. Paul
Brass suggests that an institutionalized riot systems have been created since
independence in certain regions, particularly in north and western states in
India, which can be activated during periods of political mobilization or at the
time of elections. Communal violence is far from being spontaneous occurrences.
The production of a riot, Brass argues, involves calculated and deliberate
actions by key individuals, like recruitment of participants, provocative
activities and conveying of messages, spreading of rumours, amongst other
specific activities. There are frequent rehearsals until the time is ripe and
the context is felicitous and there are no serious obstructions in carrying out
the performance.

The objective behind communal riots in India is to deepen communal consciousness
and marginalise all other primordial identities like linguistic, ethnic, gender;
and ascribed identities like profession or occupation based, club/sports or that
of animal lovers or art lovers etc. It also seeks to make the dalits and
adivasis ignore the fact that they are oppressed and discriminated by caste
based hierarchical structures on one hand and embrace the communal identity as
informed by the interest of the upper caste on the other hand without
questioning the caste based hierarchical structures.

Communal violence heightens an individual's communal consciousness as based on
his/her communal identity she/he could be killed. The fear of "other" is highest
during violence and every person belonging to one's community is perceived as
comrade and persons not belonging to one's community are perceived as a source
of potential violent threat. Therefore during riots one is desperate to know
every strangers identity. The communal consciousness acquired during riots due
to heightened state of fear does not entirely wane after the riots. The communal
forces build on the communal consciousness through constant propaganda
popularizing many myths, stereo types and negative attitudes about the "other"
community which sustains image of the "other" as a potential threat to their
collective social interest. Thus communal violence leads to communal
consciousness and discriminatory approach towards the "other" and preference for
members of one's own community in social, political and economic affairs. This
process in turn pushes the society towards ghettoization of social space.
Communal consciousness leads to acceptance of communal nationalism as a natural
political order rather than secular and inclusive nationalism with democracy and
its principles of liberty, equality and fraternity. Communal riots therefore
play an integral part in communalizing the society.

The old strategy of spectacular and catastrophic riots was inevitable as the
communal forces did not have sufficient following and critical mass to doctor
consciousness of the nation without resorting to riots. Producing riots, as Paul
Brass would put it, enabled the communal organizations to get increased coverage
in a section of media and attract attention of the nation. The strategy was to
use riots and the media together for constructing communal consciousness.
However, of late, the communal organizations seem to have adopted an alternate
strategy to achieve the objective of constructing communal consciousness and are
less dependent on spectacular and catastrophic communal riots to communalize the
consciousness of the society. Nay, they also face difficulties with catastrophic
communal riots inflicting heavy casualty e.g. a section of media may cover the
incident adversely, or they may run into problems with international human
rights organizations and at times with national institutions like the higher
judiciary and at times being accepted as a leader at national level,
particularly, if one has prime ministerial ambitions.

Instead of heightened fear during communal riots, the communal forces are now
disguising and morphing themselves as "Islamic terrorists" and executing terror
attacks targeting Muslims as well as Hindus. The terrorists motivated by
Hindutva ideology were first detected trying to manufacture a bomb, which
exploded in the process on 6th April 2006. Two Bajrang Dal activists - who were
manufacturing the bomb were killed, including one Rajkondwar. Maps of mosques,
attire usually worn by Muslims was found by the police during their
investigations. Rahul Pande, one of the person who sustained injury when the
bomb exploded, confessed that they had made series of bombs earlier too. In
January 2008, Hindu Munani activists were arrested by the police for placing
bombs near RSS office and ST bus stand in Tenkasi in TN. They thought that the
blame would naturally be on Muslim groups leading to communalization of the
Hindus. On 24th August 2008, two Bajrang Dal activists died in Kanpur trying to
assemble bombs. The group was planning massive explosions all over the state.

On 30th April 2010, Devendra Gupta, Vishnu Prasad and Chandrashekkar Patidar,
long associated with RSS was arrested for placing bomb in one of the most
popular Muslim shrine - Ajmer Sharif in October 2007. They are also believed to
have placed bombs in Mecca Masjid in Hyderabad for which scores of Muslim youth
were arrested and tortured during police custody.

Six members of Sanatan Sanstha were arrested for planting bombs outside of an
auditorium in Thane, Vashi in 2008. On 30 August 2011, Ramesh Gadkari and Vikram
Bhave belonging to Sanatan Sanstha were found guilty in sessions court of the
Thane blasts and received the maximum sentence of ten years rigorous
imprisonment. NIA officers raided the organization's headquarters in October
2011. The investigations are ongoing.

Two persons were killed in the Margao blast on 16th October 2009. The NIA has
accused Prashant Juvekar (Ratnagiri), Sarang Kulkarni (Pune), Jayprakash alias
Anna (Mangalore) and an unidentified person. The two men identified as Malgondi
Patil and Yogesh Naik, who were carrying the bagful of country made explosives
were reportedly riding a scooter when the blast occurred. The blast took place
when a religious event was being held during which effigies of a mythical demon,
Narkasur, were brunt to celebrate the victory of good over evil. Police linked
the blast to a right-wing Hindu organisation named Sanatan Sanstha, which has
its headquarters in the temple town of Ramnathi in Ponda region of Goa. In both
the above incidents, the target was not Muslims. Naturally the blame was
expected to be laid at the door of Muslims.

While resorting to terrorist methods and using bombs to achieve their objective
of constructing communal consciousness and fear of Muslims was one of the
methods adopted by the communal organizations, the other strategy was placing
persons indoctrinated with communal ideologies in key places within the security
forces. The key individuals within the security forces would then misuse their
positions and illegally arrest and murder innocent Muslim youth declaring them
to be "terrorists who infiltrated from across the border with the intention to
kill Narendra Modi or target some key individuals / installations and who were
killed in encounter with the police." Innocent Muslim youth were regularly
targeted in this fashion until the brother of Sohrabuddin decided to wage a long
legal battle against all odds and might of the individuals involved in the
murder and those protecting them. Ishrat Jehan, Javed Sheikh and two others with
her, one Sadiq Jamal and others were also similarly eliminated. CBI
investigations of the murder of Israt Jehan points to the involvement of P P
Pandey who retired as DGP of Gujarat and still investigating the involvement of
Rajendra Kumar, officer of IB who not only provided the intelligence which
enabled the murder to pass off as encounter, but also allegedly arranged for
AK47 guns that were placed on the bodies of Ishrat Jehan and others to ensure
that the murder passes off as an encounter for the media. Amit Shah, State Home
Minister and Narendra Modi's right hand person was arrested in the Sohrabuddin,
Kausar Bano and Tulsiram Prajapati murder case.

The periodical murders of Muslim individuals would be followed by nationwide
coverage of the police version by the uncritical media millions of avid news
hungry consumers would have no option but to gulp the news as 24 carat truth.
Repeated coverage of such periodical murders by unsuspecting and uncritical
media, prime time debates around the incidents for days together made the
consumers of news to accept the doctrine propounded by Narendra Modi and L K
Advani that all terrorists are Muslims. The fear of Muslims after riots is
replaced by fear of Muslims being terrorists and achieving the same objective of
constructing communal consciousness. The murder episodes which were passed off
as encounters also helped make individuals who were to be targeted as heroes of
"Hindu community" and construct their image as iron persons.

The alternate strategy now increasingly resorted to by communal forces is to use
a section of intelligence and Anti Terrorism Squads (ATS) coupled with media
coverage to stigmatize the minorities as posing threat to the nation. The
communal forces have succeeded in getting its ideologically trained cadres
placed in security forces and use them as a vehicle in communalization project.
The new strategy can now work as communal forces have succeeded in
systematically infiltrating the security forces to carry out its objectives.
While a section of the IB provides cooked intelligence, the ATS pretends to
immediately swoops into action arresting or killing innocent Muslim youth and
claiming to protecting the nation against threat of terrorist attack. Nimesh
Commission in UP has pointed out list of number of Muslims who were falsely
charged by UP Govt. even during 'secular' Mayawati regime as terrorists. Khalid
Mujahid was one such person according to Nimesh Commission on basis of evidence.
Khalid Mujahid was eliminated under police custody. Minds have been so
communalized that advocates defending the Muslim accused of terror charges are
being beaten up within court premises by fellow advocates and the society /
judiciary does not seem to be appalled! At least there are no strong signals
sent by high courts or the Apex Court against such incidents within court
premises! Qateel Siddiqui was killed in Yerwada jail as he could have testified
to innocence of Himayat Baig, facing gallows for the German Bakery blast. The
new strategy seems to be working, but it remains to be seen how long it will
work? When will the citizens who respect democracy and institutions of democracy
rise to question such blatant violence? Will they before we have a fascist state
at our doors?

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Mirror

Godhra riots: Clean chit for Modi government

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 1220 words


Twelve years and 24 extensions later, the Nanavati-Shah Commission submits its
report to the CM; claims Godhra carnage was a 'conspiracy', absolves Modi and
his govt of any complicity in the 2002 riots

MUMBAI Though some Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Bajrang Dal workers were
found to be present at scattered places where riots erupted and (they probably)
played some role, the then Chief Minister Narendra Modi or his government had no
complicity in the riots: This, and many other observations, reportedly form the
core of the Nanavati Commission report that was submitted on Tuesday.

After 12 years and 24 extensions, retired Justice G T Nanavati - the chairman of
the two-member inquiry commission set up by Gujarat government to look into the
2002 Godhra Express carnage and the subsequent communal riots -- submitted a
2,400-page report to Chief Minister Anandi Patel at her official residence.
According to reports, the commission has given a clean chit to Modi and his
government by stating that allegations of state complicity remain unproven.

Human right activists have accused the commission of being pro-establishment.
They reiterated that the commission report is 'far from the truth'.

CLEAN SLATE

Justice Nanavati and his colleague retired Justice Akshay Mehta refused to
comment on the contents of the report. CM Anandi Patel also maintained silence
on this issue.

However, sources who scanned the report later admitted that it completely
absolves Modi - who had been internationally criticized for mishandling the
riots that claimed over 2,000 lives -- of any wrongdoing.

The riots had taken place after the S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express carrying
kar sevaks from Ayodhya to Gujarat was set afire at Godhra station, killing 59
people.

In the past, human right activists had dubbed Gujarat riots as genocide and even
lobbied internationally to persecute Modi for the riots that had torn apart the
state. In 2005, the United States led by the then President George W Bush had
denied Modi a visa under a 1998 US law barring entry to foreigners who have
committed "particularly severe violations of religious freedom".

However, he was amicably welcomed to the US after he elected the prime minister
a few months ago.

BIASED PANEL

The commission, since its inception, has been accused of being biased towards
Modi. Inordinate delays, overlooking of crucial evidence such as phone call
records, ignoring witness statements, refusing to cross-examine Modi were some
of the charged levied against the commission. Modi had dismissed these charges
as the "pastime of pseudosecularists and English media".

Interestingly, sources say that the commission has taken the pseudo-secular
theory forward in the report, by flaying the media for its role during the riots
. The report categorically states, "After summoning hundreds of witnesses, both
government and non-government, we have not found any reason to surmise that
Gujarat government or those in power when the riots took place played any role
in augmenting the communal tension.... Exaggerated media coverage worsened the
situation."

The Nanavati commission also enclosed the report prepared by R K Raghavan, who
headed the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team that scrutinised
the Gujarat riots, to collaborate their finding that "there is absolutely no
evidence to suggest any complicity on part of the Gujarat government or Modi in
the 2002 riots."

THE COMMISSION'S JOURNEY

The commission at present comprises retired judges G T Nanavati and Akshay
Mehta. The panel had been constituted by Gujarat government on March 6, 2002,
under the Commission of Inquiry Act in the wake of Godhra train carnage on
February 27, 2002 and subsequent communal riots.

Initially, it was a one-member commission headed by Justice (retired) K G Shah.
Following opposition by certain groups, it was turned into a two-member
commission headed by Nanavati as its chairman.

In 2008, after the death of Justice Shah, Mehta was appointed to the commission.
Mehta had been earlier criticised for granting bail to Babu Bajrangi who was
accused of burning 97 people, all Muslims, to death in Naroda Patiya massacre.
Bajrangi, who was later sentenced to life, had described Justice Mehta as "apna
aadmi (our man)" in a sting operation. + Human right activists, led by late
human rights champion Mukul Sinha of Jan Sangharsh Manch, had opposed his
appointment and threatened to boycott the commission proceedings. However, the
government ignored their demands.

The 2002 riots happened after S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express carrying kar
sevaks from Ayodhya to Gujarat was burnt was set afire at Godhra station,
killing 59 people.

The Nanavati commission has been criticised for not summoning Modi for
cross-examination. Though the terms of reference were revised only in May 2004,
nearly a year after the inquiry commission was set up. Interestingly, that Modi
should be summoned for cross-examination as a point of inquiry was included in
the panel's purview only after UPA-II came back to power in 2004.

Sinha had sent two applications (2007 and 2009) to the commission pleading that
Modi be summoned as stated in the 2004 government notification. The commission
turned down the applications in 2009, terming the allegation against Modi
'vague' and 'based on unwarranted assumptions'.

Sinha was also not allowed to cross-examine certain witnesses, such as the then
home minister Gordhan Zadaphia, and former minister I K Jadeja (who allegedly
sat in police control room and issued selective instructions), CM's private
assistant Om Prakash, as well as Tanmay Mehta and Sanjay Bhavsar who were
officers on special duty to the CM.

Evidence made available to the commission in the form of call details to prove
that rioters were in constant touch with politicians was not analysed. Rahul
Sharma, who was Bhavnagar SP during the 2002 riots, had given these records to
the commission. Sharma was penalised for passing on records of calls made during
the 2002 riots in the state 'without official clearance' and moved to a
non-significant posting.

The commission examined over 45,000 documents and over 1,000 witnesses including
journalists, politicians, police officers and riot victims.

WHAT THE REPORT SAYS

? Narendra Modi and his government not involved in 2002 riots in any way.

? There's absolutely no evidence to show that either Modi, the then CM, his
ministers or police officers had played any role in the Godhra incident or that
there was any lapse on their part in the matter of providing protection, relief
and rehabilitation to riot victims or non-compliance with NHRC directions.

? There was no evidence to summon CM Modi for a cross-examination.

? The burning of S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express on February 27, 2002 was a
conspiracy.

? The coach was targeted because kar sevaks were travelling in it. Arrangements
were made and 140 litres of petrol had been collected to burn the train.

? It (train-burning) was a part of a larger conspiracy" to "instil a sense of
fear" in the administration and create "anarchy" in the state.

? The riots that followed were spontaneous.

? The state government was alert and summoned the army.

? The police did its duty.

? It some places, a few Bajrang Dal and VHP workers were present when violence
took place but action was initiated against them.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 12, 2016 Friday

'Violence echoes deadly unrest of 1966

BYLINE: Eddie Lee

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws city news 02.pgl; Pg.3

LENGTH: 366 words


The mayhem on Monday night was reminiscent of the 1966 riots in Hong Kong, said
a former senior policeman who witnessed the deadly unrest 50 years ago.

"The Mong Kok riot and the chain of events that led to the turmoil in 1966 had
many things in common," said James Elms, a police inspector in the 1960s who
retired in 1996 as a senior superintendent.

He noted that both incidents were characterised by mass participation of young
people, who mostly responded to their peers' call for action. They were
similarly disappointed at government policy as well as the political system at
the time in which they lived, the 72-year-old said.

"The young people might not have the same objectives from the outset but they
all took the same action later," said Elms, citing another resemblance across
the generations. He believed at least some of the attacks this week were
premeditated, as was the case five decades ago.

The riot in 1966, triggered by the colonial government's decision to increase
ferry fares, resulted in one death and the arrest of more than 1,800 people.
Unrest a year later, stemming from mounting tensions between the colonial
government and leftists, caused greater casualties and claimed 51 lives. Some
1,936 people were convicted for offences committed during the 1967 riots.

Chaos of such severity remained uncommon in the city in the ensuing years, but
the anti-riot provisions of the Public Order Ordinance used against people
nabbed after the Mong Kok riot have been applied at times.

More than 20 inmates were convicted under the law and jailed for taking part in
a riot at the Hei Ling Chau Addiction Treatment Centre in June 2000.

According to the ordinance, an unlawful assembly is a riot when a participant
commits "a breach of the peace". The offence carries a maximum jail term of 10
years.

The United Kingdom and Australia have comparable anti-riot laws. While a person
guilty of riot is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
10 years in the UK, the maximum in New South Wales is 15 years.

Law scholars and authoritative legal texts note that, for conviction, there must
be proof of unlawful assembly and of violence or the threat of violence by
rioters.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Pakistan: BJP dismisses Rahul Gandhi's allegations of Narendra Modi abetting
Gujarat riots

LENGTH: 366  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 31 -- Indian main opposition party BJP has dismissed Rahul
Gandhi's declaration that while the 2002 riots in Gujarat were abetted by the
state government, the Congress government in Delhi tried its best to check the
1984 riots in Delhi. Mr Gandhi's remark was an accusation levelled against
Narendra Modi, the Chief Minister of Gujarat who is running for Prime Minister.

Gandhi, tapped to lead the Congress party's campaign for the national election,
sought in a television interview last night to distinguish between what
transpired in Gujarat, where hundreds of Muslims were killed, and the communal
violence that erupted against Sikhs in Delhi after his grandmother Indira Gandhi
was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards while she was Prime Minister.

"The Gujarat riots were unfortunate but 1984 riots were a genocide. 1984 was a
genocide and pre-planned, it was executed by the ruling government," said BJP
spokesperson Prakash Javadekar, challenging Mr Gandhi's version of events.
"Rajiv Gandhi justified the genocide," he added, referring to Mr Gandhi's father
who became the prime minister after Indira Gandhi was assassinated. He was
killed by a suicide bomber in 1991.

Though Mr Gandhi, 43, has not been named as the Congress' choice for Prime
Minister, the election is being seen as a direct contest between him and Modi.

"The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984,
the government was trying to stop the riots... in Gujarat, the opposite was the
case. The government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots
further," the Congressman said last night.

When asked if he agreed with the Prime Minister, who recently held Mr Modi
responsible for "the massacre of innocent citizens," Mr Gandhi said, "The
Gujarat riots took place, people died, Mr. Narendra Modi was in charge of
Gujarat at that point,"

A Supreme Court investigation has cleared Mr Modi of charges of complicity in
the riots, and a court recently upheld that report

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 14, 2003

FIVE men who took part in the Oldham riots have been sentenced to a total of
more than 17 years behind bars.

BYLINE: Blaise tapp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 284 words



FIVE men who took part in the Oldham riots have been sentenced to a total of
more than 17 years behind bars.  Mohammed Waseem, 20, of Greenhill Terrace,
Oldham, received the longest sentence of four-and-a-half years after being
convicted of riot. Waseem was on probation for a public order offence and on
conditional discharge for another at the time of the riots, which led to his
lengthier sentence.  Qadir Hussain, 21, of Alexandra Road in Glodwick, and
Sarfraz Khan, 24, of Savoy Street, Glodwick, both received three-and-a-half
years after pleading guilty to riot last year.  Hussain's brother, 26-year-old
Shaukat Ali, was sentenced last year to five years imprisonment after pleading
guilty to being involved in the riots.  Jamil Hussain, 23, of Park Road, in
Glodwick, was sentenced to three years after he admitted throwing missiles
during one of the nights when disorder occurred.  Mohammed Ayub, 25, of Bolton
Street, in Glodwick, was sentenced to two years and nine months after he pleaded
guilty to riot.  The total number of people dealt with in connection with the
outbreak of disorder last May has now risen to 21. They have been sentenced to a
total of 67 years.

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Bottomley said: "The investigation and
conclusion of the Oldham riots has now continued into a third year as the town
continues to rebuild.  "The effects of what occurred that weekend in May 2001
have not been forgotten, nor will those responsible go unpunished.

"Twenty-one men have now been sentenced for their involvement in a long weekend
of violence, arson and assault. "We will continue to help bring to justice
anyone else who played a part in the Oldham riots."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MISSILE: Jamil Hussain; RIOT: Mohammed Ayub; RIOT: Mohammed Waseem;
RIOT: Qadir Hussain

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                Final C Edition

Psychology of a riot: They found it exciting; Thrills, privilege and 'bracketed
morality' are key ingredients to sports-related rampages

BYLINE: Douglas Todd, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Douglas Todd; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 742  words


Going beyond the confines of academic research, writer Bill Buford nailed down
better than anyone the psychology of those who join sports riots, after he spent
years running with English soccer hooligans.

In his classic book, Among the Thugs, Buford seemed to capture why thousands of
Metro Vancouver young people descended into violent destruction after the
Canucks' Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins.

Simple answer: They found it exciting.

Buford admitted he himself experienced the addictive thrill of violence as he
moved among rampaging British soccer mobs.

"I had not expected the violence to be so pleasurable .. This is, if you like,
the answer to the million-dollar question: Why do young males riot? They do it
for the same reason that another generation drank too much or smoked dope,"
Buford writes.

"Violence is their anti-social kick, their mind-altering experience, an
adrenalin-induced euphoria that might be all the more powerful because it is
generated by the body itself."

Those who watched in shock as the media covered this year's Stanley Cup riots
-as the flames flew higher, the looting raged on and the cheers grew louder
-couldn't help but notice the visceral enjoyment experienced by the intoxicated
men, and to some extent, women.

"They weren't even angry. They were having fun," said University of B.C.
sociologist Rima Wilkes, who studies collective action.

"There seemed to be a lot of privilege there. They acted as if they were
untouchable. As if they weren't criminals."

Wilkes noted that with their stylish haircuts and hip clothes, the selfabsorbed
Vancouver rioters were much different from the looters after Hurricane Katrina
in 2005. While many of the hurricane looters stole essentials such as food and
diapers, she has been told Vancouver's rioters were more inclined to steal
cosmetics.

"Many people seemed to treat the riot as entertainment," Wilkes said in an
interview. "They were taking pictures of the fires and overturned police cars.
If there had been a dead body, would they have shot a photo of that? People get
caught up in the moment, and in the crowd mentality, and they think this is
acceptable behaviour."

During the 2010 Winter Games and Canucks playoff games, Vancouver developed a
reputation as a place where 100,000 people could peacefully gather in the
streets for an athletic spectacle.

But, as with Vancouver's 1994 hockey riot, Wednesday night's events ensure the
city rejoins other places that have recently fallen to sports riots. They
include Los Angeles in 2009 and Boston in 2008, plus London in 2009, the Congo
in 2008 and Rome in 2007.

A series of psychological studies of those who engage in sports riots offer
clues as to what was going on with some of those who turned downtown into a war
zone.

As Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu suggests, the Vancouver mayhem appeared to
include at least some who premeditated their violence. There is a report of one
young man lighting a Molotov cocktail and shoving it into the gas tank of a car.

Studies by UBC psychologist Robert Hare and others suggest the ringleaders of
sports riots are often psychopaths, selfish people who chronically show lack of
empathy, remorse or fear of punishment.

However, many others in riots are followers.

Often with low self-esteem, they give up their individuality as they become
swept up into mass mania, University of Lethbridge psychologist Gordon Russell
has written in his paper, Personalities in the Crowd: Those Who Would Escalate a
Sports Riot.

In addition, most of the unruly fans who took part in Vancouver's 2011 riot
appeared to exhibit what psychologists call "bracket morality."

Feeling egged on by crowds, they "bracket" off their customary ethical norms to
dive into aggressive and bizarre behaviour they would never indulge in on their
own.

Is there any good psychological news amid the hangover of broken glass and
blackened cars of Vancouver's second Stanley Cup riot?

One is that thousands of volunteers took part Thursday in spontaneous cleanup
campaigns.

And psychological studies by Russell and others suggest virtually all riots
include people who, in the midst of the mania, try to calm things down.

They're the ones who, at significant risk to themselves, resist incivility and
the thrill of violence to consistently let others know they're behaving badly.

Without those kind of peacemakers, Vancouver's dark flash of mob rule could have
been worse.

dtodd@vancouversun.com

Blog: www.vancouversun.com/thesearch

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ian Lindsay,  PNG; Observers noticed the visceral excitement
experienced by the intoxicated people who participated in the post-game riots on
the streets of Vancouver.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Psychology of a riot: They found it exciting; Thrills, privilege and 'bracketed
morality' are key ingredients to sports-related rampages

BYLINE: Douglas Todd, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Douglas Todd; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 742  words


oing beyond the confines of academic research, writer Bill Buford nailed down
better than anyone the psychology of those who join sports riots, after he spent
years running with English soccer hooligans.

In his classic book, Among the Thugs, Buford seemed to capture why thousands of
Metro Vancouver young people descended into violent destruction after the
Canucks' Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins.

Simple answer: They found it exciting.

Buford admitted he himself experienced the addictive thrill of violence as he
moved among rampaging British soccer mobs.

"I had not expected the violence to be so pleasurable .. This is, if you like,
the answer to the million-dollar question: Why do young males riot? They do it
for the same reason that another generation drank too much or smoked dope,"
Buford writes.

"Violence is their anti-social kick, their mind-altering experience, an
adrenalin-induced euphoria that might be all the more powerful because it is
generated by the body itself."

Those who watched in shock as the media covered this year's Stanley Cup riots
-as the flames flew higher, the looting raged on and the cheers grew louder
-couldn't help but notice the visceral enjoyment experienced by the intoxicated
men, and to some extent, women.

"They weren't even angry. They were having fun," said University of B.C.
sociologist Rima Wilkes, who studies collective action.

"There seemed to be a lot of privilege there. They acted as if they were
untouchable. As if they weren't criminals."

Wilkes noted that with their stylish haircuts and hip clothes, the selfabsorbed
Vancouver rioters were much different from the looters after Hurricane Katrina
in 2005. While many of the hurricane looters stole essentials such as food and
diapers, she has been told Vancouver's rioters were more inclined to steal
cosmetics.

"Many people seemed to treat the riot as entertainment," Wilkes said in an
interview. "They were taking pictures of the fires and overturned police cars.
If there had been a dead body, would they have shot a photo of that? People get
caught up in the moment, and in the crowd mentality, and they think this is
acceptable behaviour."

During the 2010 Winter Games and Canucks playoff games, Vancouver developed a
reputation as a place where 100,000 people could peacefully gather in the
streets for an athletic spectacle.

But, as with Vancouver's 1994 hockey riot, Wednesday night's events ensure the
city rejoins other places that have recently fallen to sports riots. They
include Los Angeles in 2009 and Boston in 2008, plus London in 2009, the Congo
in 2008 and Rome in 2007.

A series of psychological studies of those who engage in sports riots offer
clues as to what was going on with some of those who turned downtown into a war
zone.

As Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu suggests, the Vancouver mayhem appeared to
include at least some who premeditated their violence. There is a report of one
young man lighting a Molotov cocktail and shoving it into the gas tank of a car.

Studies by UBC psychologist Robert Hare and others suggest the ringleaders of
sports riots are often psychopaths, selfish people who chronically show lack of
empathy, remorse or fear of punishment.

However, many others in riots are followers.

Often with low self-esteem, they give up their individuality as they become
swept up into mass mania, University of Lethbridge psychologist Gordon Russell
has written in his paper, Personalities in the Crowd: Those Who Would Escalate a
Sports Riot.

In addition, most of the unruly fans who took part in Vancouver's 2011 riot
appeared to exhibit what psychologists call "bracket morality."

Feeling egged on by crowds, they "bracket" off their customary ethical norms to
dive into aggressive and bizarre behaviour they would never indulge in on their
own.

Is there any good psychological news amid the hangover of broken glass and
blackened cars of Vancouver's second Stanley Cup riot?

One is that thousands of volunteers took part Thursday in spontaneous cleanup
campaigns.

And psychological studies by Russell and others suggest virtually all riots
include people who, in the midst of the mania, try to calm things down.

They're the ones who, at significant risk to themselves, resist incivility and
the thrill of violence to consistently let others know they're behaving badly.

Without those kind of peacemakers, Vancouver's dark flash of mob rule could have
been worse.

dtodd@vancouversun.com Blog: www.vancouversun.com/thesearch

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ian Lindsay,  PNG; Observers noticed the visceral excitement
experienced by the intoxicated people who participated in the post-game riots on
the streets of Vancouver.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Manpower and capability boost for riot police;
Move is a change from previous shifts in focus away from riot control

BYLINE: Hoe Pei Shan

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 631 words


SINGAPORE'S riot police will double in strength, with 300 more officers to be
added in the next two to three years.

These members of the Police Tactical Troops within the Special Operations
Command (SOC) will also be better armed to deal with a wider range of situations
and crowd size.

Other changes include increasing the size of each troop and the number of troops
for round-the-clock standby duty, said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean.

DPM Teo, who is also the Home Affairs Minister, set out these new measures in
Parliament yesterday in a ministerial statement, responding to the report of the
Committee of Inquiry (COI) on the Dec 8 riot in Little India.

One key measure is the 300 more officers for front-line riot duty. This will
allow the police to increase the number of troops on standby duty round the
clock from eight to 12.

The additional troops "will be configured for rapid deployment on lighter and
more mobile platforms", said DPM Teo.

Within each troop, there will be more officers as well: 44 instead of 35. They
will also get "additional equipment to improve their sense-making and
operational capabilities".

The boost will help them be more effective in dealing "with a wider range of
situations and crowd size". "Given the riot, police must re-assess the
likelihood of having to deal with large-scale public order incidents and
strengthen the ability of its forces to do so," he added.

The beefing up of the riot police is a change from past moves, in which the
police shifted its focus and resources from riot control to such priorities as
crime prevention and community policing.

That followed a sharp drop in the number of public disorders from the mid-1970s,
said DPM Teo. By 1983, the number of riot control troops was cut from 12 to
eight, with 46 officers, down from 63, in each troop.

Established in 1992, the SOC became a dual-response force in 2001, focusing on
anti-terrorism and public order incidents.

In 2004, each troop was reduced again to 35 officers but balanced with more
intensive training, and armed with advanced equipment and technology.

During the COI hearings, Commissioner of Police Ng Joo Hee, however, said the
force needed another 1,000 officers to improve police presence in areas where
large numbers of people congregate, such as Geylang and Little India.

He also said police numbers have not kept pace with population growth. Two MPs
raised his request. One was opposition MP Sylvia Lim, who asked if there was a
"serious under-resource problem", while Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC's Hri Kumar Nair
asked how DPM Teo intends to recruit given the tight labour market.

Replying, DPM Teo said the manpower issue is not one which is faced only by the
police or by his ministry. "Anyone who has run an organisation in Singapore
knows that we face a manpower situation which we all have to deal with," he
said. "In the coming five years, we will have fewer young Singaporeans entering
the workforce than in the past five years. So the issue is not going to get
simpler."

However, DPM Teo said more than 1,000 positions were created between 2008 and
this year, to support new initiatives such as front-line Community Policing and
Safer Roads. Of these, more than 97 per cent had been filled.

Overall, the police headcount has risen about 15 per cent in the past 10 years,
from about 9,000 to around 10,300 officers.

In addition, employment terms are better and upgrading opportunities improved.

The retirement age for uniformed officers has gone from 50 to 55 and more
retired officers are re-employed.

Other measures taken include the greater use of technology to combat crime.

"This combination of better operational deployments and technology has
contributed significantly to keeping crime low and solving cases," he said.

hpeishan@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday

Riot participant to change plea

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Feb. 26--NATCHEZ -- A man indicted in the May 2012 prison riot in Adams County
that killed a guard and injured dozens of prison personnel and prisoners will be
in court today and is expected to withdraw his earlier pea of "not guilty."

Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano pleaded not guilty to the charges of mutiny and
riot in October, but in January filed a notice of intent to change plea. His
change of plea hearing is set for 11 a.m. today in U.S. district court in
Natchez.

Court filings against Serrano Bejarano allege he helped rioters gain access to
the roof of one of Adams County Correctional Center's buildings by stacking food
carts. The guard who was killed in the seven-hour riot -- Catlin Carithers, 24
-- was on the roof of one of the buildings, where he was working to contain the
prisoner uprising when he received the blunt force injuries that ultimately
claimed his life.

The testimony of another prisoner who admitted to being a participant in the
riot said he saw Serrano-Bejarano assaulting a correctional officer who was
taken hostage during the riot, according to previous filings with the court.

The riot started when an informal group of Mexican nationals -- known as Paisas,
which means "countrymen" -- started a mass disobedience to express displeasure
with how they perceived the prison to be operated. The inmates reportedly became
violent after prison officials tried to contain the disobedience.

Another inmate, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, was sentenced to 40 months and $1.3 million
in restitution for his participation in the riot.

Adams County Correctional Center is a federal immigration prison and is operated
by Corrections Corporation of America and is located just east of Natchez.

___ (c)2013 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130226-YY-Riot-participant-to-change-plea-0226-20130226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2013 The Natchez Democrat


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              May 17, 2015 Sunday

Riots vs. protests: What's the difference?

BYLINE: ADRIENNE JONES For TH Media

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 657 words


To "protest" is to express a strong objection or to participate in a public
demonstration in opposition to something. To "riot" is to engage in civil
disorder, usually as a group, lashing out in a violent public disturbance
against authority, property or people. Riots typically involve vandalism and the
destruction of property.

I think that the recent litany of explosions of protest - people against the
police - in Ferguson, New York, Baltimore and other cities, keep happening
because our nation constantly bends toward living in a society like the one we
articulated in the Declaration of Independence and ratified in the Constitution.
The underlying struggle to achieve these aims is ongoing, and periodically
spurts up to the surface where it challenges our incongruent norms.

Often the media and, in turn, the public, interpret the public unrest that
occurs in response to alleged police misconduct, not as protest but as
"rioting." The word riot gets used interchangeably with protest. This changes
our interpretation of the events.

It is very important that we use care when we use the word riot, because it
implies that the individuals objecting to the status quo are themselves breaking
the law. As a public, we tend to turn a blind eye toward the interests of
lawbreakers. So, when we confuse riot with protest it prevents us from
understanding the messages conveyed by demonstrations, slows our consideration
of those messages and hinders progress toward the democracy we desire.

The recent unrest in Baltimore sparked by the death of Freddie Gray provides a
great opportunity to observe and discuss the distinction between "protest" and "
riot."

There was a large protest in Baltimore and some rioting. Unfortunately, most of
what we saw in the news reports and on TV was about the riots. Riot coverage
casts participants as irrational thugs instead of a significant number of
citizens interested in better treatment, or in this case, in learning the
details of a slain kid`s death. People want to be treated fairly in the
democracy, as if they are significant, just like our Founding Fathers did.

Rioting often erupts alongside protest. It occurs because some feel powerless
and others angry, and they act out. The recent Baltimore riots did result in
vandalism and the destruction of property but what went un-sensationalized were
the majority of people who protested peacefully; that protesters objected to the
riots and to angry protesters; that citizens formed lines of protection between
angry protesters and police; that gang members called a truce to turn their
energy toward curtailing rioters; and that community members cleaned up the
community after the occurrences of mayhem.

Our Constitution provides protection for property, independent ownership is one
of our fundamental principles. So it is no surprise that people are upset by the
destruction of property that results from riots. But, the vast majority of the
people publicly expressing objection in cities today to the alleged misconduct
of the police in minority neighborhoods do it peacefully, to convey important
messages.

If we are interested in the kind of country described in the Declaration of
Independence, and in securing for everyone the rights in the Constitution, then
it is important that we consider the messages being sent by protesters and not
ignore those missives by characterizing them as rioters. If we do, we have a
chance to make the necessary legal and societal changes that will bring us into
alignment with our mission.

Such a shift will reduce the antagonism between communities and law enforcement
and decrease the number of tragic and divisive incidents, the related protests
and protest-related riots.

The author, who recently earned a Ph.D. from City University of New York, is a
Dubuque resident, lawyer, political scientist and adjunct faculty member at the
University of Wisconsin-Platteville. Her email address is jonesmad@uwplatt.edu

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Crown seeks jail for N. Van rioter

BYLINE: Jane Seyd, North Shore News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words


A Crown prosecutor has asked for 30 to 90 days in jail for a North Vancouver man
who was captured on video looting the Sears store in downtown Vancouver during
the Stanley Cup hockey riot last year.

Video showing Jacob Pateman, 19, going into Sears through the store's smashed
glass doors, grabbing cosmetics from a display case and then running out again
was played in Vancouver provincial court Friday during Pateman's sentencing
hearing.

Pateman pleaded guilty May 11 to participating in a riot in connection with the
melee that broke out downtown on the evening of June 15 last year following the
Vancouver Canucks' loss to the Boston Bruins in game seven of the Stanley Cup
finals.

That riot "epitomizes the breakdown of core societal values," Crown counsel Rod
Flannigan told provincial court Judge David St. Pierre.

"For many hours downtown Vancouver was under siege and people were terrified,"
said Flannigan." Pateman was "one of those who took control of our streets and
turned our city into a war zone," he said.

Flannigan said jail time was warranted in the case because of the need for
general deterrence.

On the night the riot broke out, Pateman - then 18 - watched the hockey game on
TV while drinking at a friend's home in North Vancouver, said Flannigan. Before
the game ended, however, Pateman and his friends decided to head downtown.

There, the riot was just getting underway. He saw rioters lighting cars on fire
and "ripping trees out" and using them as battering rams to smash doors, said
Flannigan.

Later, he met up with an ex-girlfriend. The couple was outside Sears when a
crowd of rioters smashed the windows and glass doors and swarmed into the store
to loot it.

He saw people going in and out of Sears "so he did as well," Flannigan said
Pateman told police. "Someone beside him smashed a display case and started
taking things, so he did too," said Flannigan.

Pateman grabbed some fake nails, merchandise in gold boxes and cologne before
running out of the store with his ex-girlfriend, where the pair was once again
captured on camera. He later either gave away or threw away the items he had
taken.

He stayed downtown until the police forced everyone to leave, taking the last
SeaBus home to the North Shore around 2 a.m.

The Vancouver Police Department's riot investigation team tracked down Pateman
in the course of investigating his ex-girlfriend, who has also pled guilty to
participating in a riot. Pateman was arrested Nov. 4 and admitted his actions to
police, said Flannigan.

Flannigan urged the judge to consider Pateman's action in view of the entire
riot that night. "In a riot the actions of one are the actions of all," he said,
quoting a previous court ruling. Each rioter aids and abets the others in the
mob to make "destruction of property acceptable and almost normal," he added.

Minor crimes therefore become more serious when committed during a riot, he
said. "You can't just look at (Pateman) going into Sears for approximately 30
seconds," said Flannigan. "He was drinking and partying on the streets when he
obviously knew a riot was going on.

"People had choices when they were down there," he said. "Mr. Pateman had
choices."

In summarizing the riot, Flannigan told the judge there were more than 1,000
emergency response personnel downtown on that night. More calls came in to 9-1-1
during a four-hour period than in any other 24-hour period in the city, he said,
adding that 92 calls for ambulance service had to be put on hold. Police logged
26 arsons, 52 assaults, and 112 vehicles destroyed or damaged, including 24
emergency vehicles, he said.

The total value of the damage from the riot is estimated at $3.7 million.

Flannigan added one shock when watching the videos of the riot is seeing "the
glee in people's faces."

Pateman's lawyer Brent Anderson asked the judge to consider a conditional
discharge or conditional sentence order for Pateman.

He said Pateman was drunk and only played a minor role in the riot. He wasn't
one of the first wave of looters who swarmed into the Sears store and didn't
actively encourage anyone else to riot, said Anderson.

Anderson said the judge should distinguish between "those who start a riot and
those who get caught up in it through youthful foolishness."

Anderson said Pateman has already been "publicly shamed" by the media coverage
of charges against him and "in many respects he's a different person than the
person who committed the offence."

Pateman, who attended court with several family members from North Vancouver,
continues to have their support, said Anderson. He added a criminal record would
impact Pateman's future job prospects and might impede his search for his birth
mother in the United States.

Anderson handed up 15 letters of support for Pateman from employers and
community members as well as a letter of apology to the court from Pateman.

St. Pierre has reserved his decision until October. Other North Vancouver
residents await sentencing on riot-related charges.

jseyd@nsnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 North Shore News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday

Zoot Suit Riots: Racism underlies week of violence in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By Ben Baeder, Staff Writer @ReporterBen on Twitter

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 1800 words


If newspaper articles and court documents from the period tell any story about
Los Angeles' culture during the Zoot Suit riots of 1943 it's that attitudes
toward race were far from politically correct.

In lurid grand jury presentations for example, Latinos were depicted as a race
that was of the "Oriental persuasion" and who liked to fight. It was a tactic
sure to raise hackles as the country was still reeling from the Japanese attack
on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941 and its aftermath   a brutal world war.

"All he knows and feels is a desire to use a knife or some lethal weapon. In
other words, his desire is to kill, or at least let blood," concluded the report
from Sheriff's Capt. Edward Duran Ayres, who presented his findings on the
"youth gang" problem to a Los Angeles County Grand Jury in 1942.

The report came in response to what would become known as the Sleepy Lagoon
Murder.

As fear of roving youth gangs became palpable in 1942 and 1943, Los Angeles-area
newspapers ran almost-weekly reports detailing violent acts by Latinos who
called themselves pachucos   a subculture of mostly young men and women who
identified themselves through dress, language, music   and attitude.

Latinos weren't the only ones being targeted then. Japanese families were being
forced off their land during the Japanese internment. They were referred to as
"nips" or "Japs" in the newspapers.

Japanese Premier Hideki Tojo of Japan was described in the Aug. 5, 1942 Los
Angeles Examiner as having, "sharp, beady eyes, the receding forehead, the
typically close-cropped hair, the wryly twisted mouth."Racism and Hatred

The extent of the hatred toward non-whites caught a lot of Latinos off guard.

To actor Edward James Olmos, who in the 1970s starred as 'El Pachuco' in the
stage play "Zoot Suit" about the period, the time was marked by what he
considers to be a backward, twisted view of race.

"Back then, people really weren't educated," he said. "There was almost a
stupidity to the racism. It was trite and almost awkward. It was really, really
primitive."

One such example is defense attorney Ann Zacsek's argument in the 1942 Sleepy
Lagoon trial.

"Isn't it true that Mexicans have exceptionally heavy heads of hair," Zacsek
argued during trial as she tried to raise doubt regarding head injuries to
murder victim Jose Diaz.

Diaz died Aug. 2, 1942 from a severe beating and stab wounds after a house party
in a ranch house on Slauson Avenue in what is now Commerce. Following Diaz's
death, police rounded up between 300 and 600 pachucos, most of them Latinos.
(Story continues below)Violence erupts during the Zoot Suit Riots in Los
Angeles. (Photo courtesy Special Collections, UCLA Library)Photos:Zoot Suit
Riots in Los Angeles |Newspapers from the Zoot Suit Riots
Related:Remembering the Zoot Suit Riots |The Sleepy Lagoon murder
Interactive:Animated map shows how the fighting spread (Article originally
published in the Corona Daily Independent on June 24, 1943)Violence Escalates

By spring of 1943, local newspaper reports of zoot suit clad Latino youths
attacking innocent white residents of the Southland developed into fights
between Latinos and newly enlisted sailors stationed in Los Angeles.

Local newspapers called the youth goons, hoodlums and terrorists. The headlines
and stories painted an alarming picture of Latino youth. L.A. Zoot Suit Disorder
Spreads: Pachuco Gangs Tangle in New Street Brawls With Navy; Cry 'Death to
Cops'. Long Beach Independent. June, 1943 Hobble Skirts Hide Razors: Zoot
Suiters Run for Cover but their 'Cholitas' Carry On. Washington Daily News.
June, 1943 Pachucos Origins Traced: Zoot Suit Is Symbol of Hatred of Society.
Long Beach Independent. June, 1943 Communists had big part in zoot suit riots.
Corona Daily Independent. June, 1943 Black widow girls in boy gangs, war on
vandals pushed. Los Angeles Evening Herald and Express, June 1942 28 Zoot
suiters seized on coast after clashes with service men. New York Times, June,
1943What happened then resonates today

"I remember writing a letter to my brother about the riots and how things were
back here in Los Angeles," said Gene Cabral, who is 85 and grew up in Chavez
Ravine before his family was displaced by what eventually became Dodger Stadium.

He and his friend wore the pegged pants and long jackets known as zoot suits,
which were also called drapes.

When the riots broke out in June 1943, Cabral's five brothers were in the
military. He was only 15, but he idolized his siblings.

"I remember writing my brother, Cruz Cabral, a Marine," he said. "He was in four
major battles in the Pacific. He was my hero. I wrote him in respect to the
riots. He couldn't believe it. He was so ticked off. Here he was fighting, and
we were getting beat up because of our dress, which, looking back now, was
probably just an excuse. I'm pretty sure now that people were just racist."

The epicenter of the riots was just down the street from Cabral's house, at the
new Naval Armory, which was built in 1940 smack in the middle of a Latino
neighborhood on what is now Stadium Way.

Some argue that the perceptions of Latino youth haven't changed much since then.

UC Berkeley Ethnic Studies graduate student Celia Lacayo and others who have
studied the Zoot Suit Riots say that perceptions of Latino youth as more lazy or
more delinquent than other youth started in the early 1940s.

"I consider the riots to be important," Lacayo said. "They speak to how people
still to this day think Latinos are inherently criminal."Cause of the Riots

During the last 70 years, dozens of scholars have investigated the factors that
led to the riots. And many single out the week of violence as a defining event
in the way Latinos understood United State culture.

"The cause of the zoot suit riots is plain and simple. The people were racist,"
said historian Rodolfo Acuna of Cal State Northridge. Acuna was 10 years old and
living in Boyle Heights when the riots broke out on June 3, 1942.

Other factors besides racism may have played into the week of beatings, Acuna
said. But the soldiers beat every Latino they could find, not just kids wearing
the puffy pants and large suit jackets that were popular to the pachuco youth of
the day.

"Fashions are fashions," he said. "The pachuco thing was just a fad. It was just
like those hip-hop kids wearing pants hanging off their asses 20 years ago.
Those sailors weren't looking for zoot suits. They were looking for Mexicans,
and they beat the hell out of them."

Other scholars, such as Eduardo Obregon Pagan, view the riots through the lens
of social dynamics and segregation.

A number of factors piled up until the anxiety spilled over into violence, said
Pagan, author of "Murder at the Sleepy Lagoon: Zoot Suits, Race & Riots in
Wartime L.A." Youths were challenging social norms by dressing in flashy outfits
and refusing to yield to whites on the sidewalk, he said.

The building of the armory near Chavez Ravine was certainly a factor, he said.

The military staging area dumped thousands of out-of-town, white,
testosterone-filled young sailors among thousands of young Latinos who had
recently got work in the wartime economy and were more than willing to flaunt
their newfound wealth.

"They were youths who were too young to serve and instead were working," said
Gerardo Licon, an assistant professor in the program of Latin American studies
at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire.

He grew up in the Los Angeles area and is an expert on the pachuco subculture.

"They were flaunting what they had been able to buy with increased independence
and money," he said. "They are buying pants that are baggy, which could be
considered to be wasteful, coats that are longer, long wallet chains when all
metal is supposed to be for the war effort."

Finally, sailors decided to put the Latino youths back in their collective
place, scholars said.

Police and local politicians let the riots go for about a week before the
military finally ordered the sailors off the streets.

After the riots, a few government-appointed commissions blasted the city's
newspapers and politicians for allowing the riots, blaming racism, ignorance and
a lack of opportunities for the resentment between whites and Latinos.

Then the incident faded out of the popular press.(Story continues below)Group
portrait of eight Mexican American males taken in for questioning in the 1942
Sleepy Lagoon murder investigation, Los Angeles, Calif. (Photo courtesy Special
Collections, UCLA Library)Photos:Zoot Suit Riots in Los Angeles |Newspapers from
the Zoot Suit Riots
Related:Remembering the Zoot Suit Riots |The Sleepy Lagoon murder
Interactive:Animated map shows how the fighting spread Not All Are Innocent

One expert said that society shouldn't necessarily paint pachucos as innocent
kids who got caught in a storm of racism.

Many of the zoot suiters were adults unable to serve in the military due to
criminal records, said Richard Valdemar, a retired Los Angeles County gang
detective who lectures on gang history and culture.

"If you read the historical count from that time, you will see that a lot of
kids at the time were happy in their criminal element," he said. "They liked
it."

The dynamic is best observed in the "Mighty Mouse" cartoons from the 1940s, he
said. In the popular cartoon, criminals lay around in zoot suits drinking beer
and listening to jazz music until Might Mouse comes to rescue the damsel in
distress.

"It's mainstream society versus the underworld," he said. "It's not Mexican
versus white."

Valdemar said the race angle is overplayed. He grew up in an unincorporated
Willowbrook community near south Los Angeles.

"I am sure some of the riots were fueled by racism, no doubt," he said. "But I
think, if anything, we can argue that the pendulum has gone too far the other
direction. It's like, if you're Mexican, then everybody makes excuses for you.
It's degrading.

Some of the small pachuco "proto-gangs' matured into violent criminal
enterprises, he said.

Others say the event was never properly addressed by mainstream society before
its story faded.

The memories of that time resurfaced for some when the play "Zoot Suit" opened
at the Mark Taper Auditorium in 1979. The theater was packed with Latino
families, said Alma Martinez, who played one of the lead female roles in the hit
play.

"Why did we do so well? It's because Latinos came to see it," said Martinez, who
is an assistant professor of theater at Pomona College. "It was like this
incredible, huge wound that never healed."

The period from 1942 to 1943 in many ways defined the relationship between
Latinos and the police and other authorities, she said.

"They wonder why Mexicans don't trust the police?" she said. "Well, excuse me?
This is the one major incident when things took a bad turn and I don't know if
they have every really been put back on track."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Violence erupts during the Zoot Suit Riots in Los Angeles. (Photo
courtesy Special Collections, UCLA Library)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 3, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Riots will result from 'Millennium' bug benefit cuts

SECTION: LETTERS, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 274 words


   By now many will have heard of the leaked Government documents that show the
Government is expecting the Millennium bug to cause riots and that the
Government is making plans to use the police and Army against the people to
crush those who riot.

Now, while it is likely that some companies will get caught out by the
Millennium bug, that simply means they will have to return to keeping written
ledgers and records for a time while they sort out their computer software.

If anything, that will result in some companies employing temporary extra staff,
causing a short-term fall in employment figures.

Wise companies will probably hire extra staff in advance, to guard against staff
shortages.

That is not the type of thing likely to cause riots.

On the contrary it reverses the likelihood of riot, as those employed will have
a bit more in their pockets.

The middle classes will not riot - they are far too happy in their well- off
lethargic complacency.

And the rich certainly will not riot.

There is only one group that would riot - the poor, and only one thing could
cause them to riot, turning off the benefits they need to survive.

If benefits to the poor were affected, it would leave them with no choice but to
riot and attack supermarkets, shops, banks and post offices to obtain food and
essentials to survive, or goods or money to barter for food and essentials.

Think how much money a Millennium bug benefits cut would save the Government -
money the Government needs if it is to bag the votes of the wealthy middle
classes at the next election.

JAMES GILFILLAN,

Hexham.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

B.C. announces Cup riot probe as police detail first charges

BYLINE: Kim Bolan, Vancouver Sun; Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcohol-fuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

"Everyone wants to understand how this riot happened, ask the tough questions
about it and move forward because we want to keep having these big gatherings
downtown," said Mayor Gregor Robertson.

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

And while Chu praised the progress of the newly formed Integrated Riot
Investigation Team, police also warned about vigilante justice fuelled by the
social media sites highlighting videos and photos of rioters.

"In the ensuing high state of emotions following the recent hockey riot, there
is a growing danger that the tools of social media will be used to mete out
vigilante justice," the VPD said. "The Vancouver Police Department and its
integrated investigation team are asking the public to resist the temptation to
take justice into their own hands. We ask for your patience and continued shows
of responsible good citizenry as the investigation unfolds."

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final. Burnaby, B.C., resident
Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two men were
stabbed that night. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle Evans, 27, has been charged
with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Delta man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who is
accused of stealing a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak,
accused of lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far in part because of the
widespread circulation of riot images and because of collective post-riot guilt.

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said -that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble -though others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, Postmedia News ,File; Rioters loot The Bay as thousands
run amok after Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals in Vancouver on June 15.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday

Police storm Roumieh block to quell riot

LENGTH: 402 words


Anti-riot police stormed a block in Lebanon's largest prison Friday evening in a
bid to end a riot by Islamist inmates who took three guards hostage to protest
the prison's strict regulations, a security source told The Daily Star.

BEIRUT: Anti-riot police stormed a block in Lebanon's largest prison Friday
evening in a bid to end a riot by Islamist inmates who took three guards hostage
to protest the prison's strict regulations, a security source told The Daily
Star.

After surrounding all entrances to Block D of Roumieh prison and issuing a
warning to the prisoners, police units stormed the prison once negotiations hit
a dead end. The operation continued till late Friday.

The riots began during the evening meal, after which inmates are usually
confined to their cells for the night.

A number of prisoners in the newly rehabilitated Block D set their mattresses on
fire, and a blaze spread throughout the second floor, prompting Civil Defense
teams to intervene.

The inmates then escalated their riot by blocking all entrances and taking three
guards hostage, the source said.

The riots come in response to the stricter regulations that the prison
authorities have adopted to prevent the smuggling of drugs and weapons to
inmates.

Interior Minister Nouhad Machnouk posted on his Twitter account that "the
situation is under control and Roumieh prison will not return to its past chaos,
whatever the price."

The security source said the prisoners responsible for the riots were mostly
Islamists who had been incarcerated in Roumieh's notorious Block B building,
which was emptied and shut down after a large-scale police operation in January.

Inmates had enjoyed relative autonomy in Block B and prevented security forces
from entering.

After the clearing operation took place, television footage showed that
prisoners had no cell doors and operated a barber shop and a coffee shop in
Block B.

Footage also showed inmates on Block B had a large amount of electronic
equipment, including TV sets and mobile phones.

Some of the prisoners are members of Islamist fundamentalist groups and had also
been imposing Shariah law inside Block B, reports said.

Roumieh prison has been the scene of repetitive riots in past years, with
inmates protesting crowded cells and slow trials.

The largest riot occurred in April 2011, when inmates set their beds on fire and
broke down cell doors, in protest over subpar living conditions.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Front: Twitter study casts doubt on ministers' post-riot plans

BYLINE: Paul Lewis James Ball Josh Halliday

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words


Analysis of more than 2.5m Twitter messages relating to the riots in England has
cast doubt on the rationale behind government proposals to ban people from
social networks or shut down their websites in times of civil unrest.

A preliminary study of a database of riot-related tweets, compiled by the
Guardian, appears to show Twitter was mainly used to react to riots and looting.

Timing trends drawn from the data question the assumption that Twitter played a
widespread role in inciting the violence in advance, an accusation also levelled
at the rival social networks Facebook and BlackBerry Messenger.

The unique database contains tweets about the riots sent throughout the
disorder, which began in Tottenham, north London, on 6 August. It also reveals
how extensively Twitter was used to co-ordinate a movement by citizens to clean
the streets after the disorder. More than 206,000 tweets - 8% of the total -
related to attempts to clean up the debris left by four nights of rioting and
looting.

The home secretary, Theresa May, will meet representatives from Facebook,
Twitter and Research in Motion, the Canada-based BlackBerry maker, today. The
companies said they would warn ministers against introducing emergency measures
that could usher in a new form of online censorship. Amid a growing censorship
row, government sources said the home secretary did not expect to discuss
closing social networks, but wanted to explore what measures the companies could
take to help contain future disorder.

David Cameron had previously indicated he would contemplate more restrictive
measures. The day after the riots subsided, the prime minister told parliament
the government was looking at banning people from using sites such as Twitter
and Facebook if they were thought to be plotting criminal activity. Cameron said
the government would do "whatever it takes" to restore order.

The Metropolitan police later revealed it had considered switching off social
networks during the disorder in London, but had decided not to on legal advice.

The Guardian database, which contains riot-related tweets sent between midnight
on 6 August - the day riots began in Tottenham - and 8pm on 17 August, will be
subject to more advanced analysis in the coming weeks.

Captions:

2.5m

Number of riot-related tweets in the Guardian database. They also show how
Twitter was used in the post-riot clearup

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                            December 23, 2013 Monday

Now Pussy Riot are free, Russia's culture wars must end

BYLINE: Natalia Antonovatheguardian.com

LENGTH: 656 words

ABSTRACT

Natalia Antonova: The radical Orthodox backlash sparked by Pussy Riot has been
disturbing. Now the band is free I hope we can all move on

FULL TEXT

As the result of a general amnesty, Pussy Riot rockers Nadezhda Tolokonnikova
and Maria Alyokhina have been set free. In case you're just joining us from
outer space, these women had been serving a two-year sentence for hooliganism
and incitement to religious hatred after performing an anti-Putin song at Christ
the Saviour Cathedral in downtown Moscow.

Although they were originally due for release in March, just a few months from
now, it's good that Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina came out early, for both obvious
and not-so-obvious reasons.

First of all, it's simply gratifying to see these women, who both have young
children, set free. Whether or not you agree with Vladimir Putin's assessment
that their performances were "degrading" to women (based on old polls Russians
pretty much seem to agree with him), it's important to note that the sentence
against them was extremely harsh and unfair.

Of course, the fact that the Pussy Riot members actually carried out their
performance in a place of worship was the deciding factor in their fate. Even
some Russian opposition figures, including veteran rocker Yuri Shevchyuk, were
surprised and hurt following the cathedral stunt. The vicious persecution of
clergy and the destruction of churches in the Soviet Union is not an issue most
Russians take lightly - which is part of the reason why the original outcry
against the group gained such momentum in Russia.

Yet the ugly show trial that followed, somehow managed to be more offensive than
the original performance. Various prominent members of the clergy went on record
to say that they did not support Pussy Riot's persecution. Even many of Pussy
Riot's most serious detractors did not understand why the state needed to make
martyrs out of them. The very wording of the verdict against Pussy Riot
continues to be a subject of scorn for lawyers.

The Pussy Riot case eventually became a bitter punchline. Every time some
unsympathetic bureaucrat or drunk driver was perceived to have got off easily in
the courts, people would joke that, "Hey, at least there was no dancing in a
church involved!" In that sense, the drama surrounding Pussy Riot served to
further undermine a legal system plagued by allegations of inhumanity and abuse.

Nadezhda Tolokonnikova's letter from a Mordovian penal colony - a letter that
accused the authorities of torture and exploitation of prisoners - was yet
another blow against the legal system. In Izvestia, a conservative newspaper,
Maxim Kononenko published a powerful essay about the feelings of shame he felt
at seeing this young woman wage a lonely crusade against abuse of prisoners
(Tolokonnikova was eventually transferred to a Siberian penal colony.)

The case against Pussy Riot also allowed a new group of radical Orthodox
activists to rise to prominence. Galvanised by media attention, the radicals
went from attacking people wearing Pussy Riot T-shirts to harassing staff at a
downtown sex museum, calling for the "pagan" Olympic torch relay to be
cancelled, and barging in on a satirical production at Moscow's venerated
Chekhov Art theatre - among their many other "achievements".

The new culture war sparked by the original Pussy Riot performance is both
tiresome and disturbing. Now that all Pussy Riot members have been freed - and
now that prominent church officials are mentioning the possibility of dialogue
with them - perhaps passions will die down.

As an Orthodox Christian, I don't want some glassy-eyed guy screaming at me to
"repent" when I go to the theatre. I don't want to be lectured about the "forces
of darkness" that will surely consume Russia for holding an Olympic torch relay.
At the end of the day, I want there to be at least a measure of healing - for
everyone involved. An amnesty is the perfect excuse to move on.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                           November 1, 2006 Wednesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Transfer of riot squad control divides police

BYLINE: Steve Barrett

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357  words


THE newly formed NSW riot squad has been placed under the control of the unit
blamed for mishandling the Cronulla riot.

The transfer from the NSW Police Counter Terrorist Co-ordination Command -- the
force's peak body charged with combating terrorist threats -- was the last act
by Carl Scully before he was sacked as police minister by Premier Morris Iemma
last week.

It has caused deep divisions between CTCC officers and the rest of the NSW
force.

New Police Minister John Watkins and Commissioner Ken Moroney endorsed Mr
Scully's final decision to hand control of the Public Order and Riot Squad to
the office of Deputy Commissioner, Operations, Andrew Scipione.

The report into the Cronulla riots by former assistant commissioner Norm Hazzard
was highly critical of the operational commanders who came under the overall
control of Mr Scipione on the day of the riot. And concerns have been raised
about the role of the riot squad in relation to next year's APEC meeting in
Sydney and who will have final say over its use.

The Australian understands the state's other Deputy Commissioner, Terry Collins,
who has responsibility for special operations, argued strongly with Mr Scully,
Mr Moroney and Mr Scipione about any transfer of the riot squad from his
command. But Mr Scully, known to be close to Mr Scipione, had made the decision
to move the squad away from the specialist command and was due to announce it on
October 1.

This was put on hold because of the storm over the impending release of the
Hazzard report, which Mr Scully initially denied existed.

Mr Scipione, along with Assistant Commissioner Mark Goodwin, the officer in
charge of the police operation on the day of the Cronulla riot last December,
convinced Mr Scully to argue that it was wrong to release the report because
officers named had not been offered a response by Mr Hazzard.

This has since been rejected by Mr Hazzard, now a civilian, and all of his 33
recommendations have been accepted by the commissioner.

Mr Goodwin -- who has since gone on sick leave -- also believed the PORS should
be placed under the command of Mr Scipione, responsible for daily field
operations.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Warrant issued after riot suspect fails to show

BYLINE: Liz Markhlevskaya, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words


Dec. 17--DOVER -- Police issued an arrest warrant for one of five Rochester men
accused of being part of a riot at Spaulding High School, after he failed to
appear at his arraignment last week

Shamel Jackson-Dixon, 19, who last known address is at 8 Lafayette St., Apt. A,
Rochester, was indicted last month on felony riot and second-degree assault
charges in connection with an incident in which several men attacked one
17-year-old victim during a varsity football game.

During the Sept. 5 riot, Jackson-Dixon allegedly kicked the 17-year-old man in
the face while the victim was on the ground, according to the grand jury
indictments issued at Strafford County Superior Court.

Jackson-Dixon had been scheduled to appear for arraignment on the charges on
Dec. 4, but a bench warrant was issued after he failed to appear. According to
court documents, he is ordered to be held in jail on no bail after he is
arrested on the warrant.

The other four men accused of being involved in the Sept. 5 riot are Rochester
residents Dylan Boston, 17, of 52 Hanson St., Michael Burke, 18, of 9 Upham St.,
Zachary Colbroth, 19, of 21 Norway Plains Road, and Cody Cook, 19, of 4
Clearview Drive.

All are facing felony riot charges, for allegedly engaging in violent conduct
involving two or more people, and purposely creating a substantial risk of
public alarm.

According to police, the riot began as an escalating verbal argument in the
parking lot of Spaulding High School, near Hanson Pines. When the 17-year-old
victim attempted to interfere and diffuse the situation, he was attacked by
several assailants, police say. The incident occurred outside of school hours,
around 8:30 p.m.

In addition to felony riot, Boston is also charged with simple assault and
criminal threatening, for allegedly pushing another man in the chest and
threatening to "bang (him) out." He is currently being held at Strafford County
jail on $10,000 cash bail, after waiving arraignment at Strafford County
Superior Court earlier this month and entering a plea of not guilty. He is
scheduled to appear for a final pretrial conference on March 18.

Burke also waived arraignment and pleaded not guilty on Dec. 4. He was ordered
to be released from jail on personal recognizance bail after he is accepted for
supervision by the Strafford County Community Corrections program.

In addition to the riot charge, Burke was indicted on simple assault and
criminal trespass charges, for allegedly punching the 17-year-old victim in the
head and entering Spaulding High School after being prohibited to do so.

Colbroth, who was also indicted on simple assault and criminal threatening
charges in addition to riot, is being held at Strafford County jail. The simple
assault charge alleges he kicked the riot victim in the head after entering
Spaulding High School after being banned from the property. He was scheduled to
be arraigned Monday morning and his arraignment results were not known by press
time.

Cook was also indicted on riot and simple assault charges, for allegedly
punching the victim in the chest while being involved in the riot. His
arraignment was initially scheduled for Dec. 3, but was rescheduled for Jan. 6.
According to court documents, he is currently undergoing treatment at Farnum
Center, which is an alcohol and drug treatment facility. His arraignment was
rescheduled to give him time to complete treatment.

___ (c)2014 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141217-1FD-Warrant-issued-after-riot
-suspect-fails-to-show-1217-20141217

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2014 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Express and Echo

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rioters' actions have stereotyped our lives

BYLINE: Keiran Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 581 words


RECENTLY we have seen rioters wreak havoc in London and other large cities
across the UK, including Manchester and Bir mingham.

Many properties were destroyed and millions of pounds of damage caused during
the riots. It was widely reported that young people were almost entirely
responsible for the riots taking place, but there are other things to consider.

The view that many people have taken is that the rioters didn't care about what
they were doing and had no reason for their actions. Although that may have been
the case for some people, it is ridiculous to suggest that one size fits all.

Consider this: riots took place in Manchester, where significantly large
portions of its youth service are being cut. Meanwhile, in Devon, which is
facing smaller cuts to the youth service, riots did not take place. This would
lead many to believe that rioters felt peaceful protests were not being noticed
by those who decided on the cutbacks which led to them wanting to take more
serious action. It also shows how vital these services are to young people and
how cutting them back is just causing further problems. When the full extent of
cuts is felt, the riots might escalate; they may become worse and more difficult
to sort out.

Many young people who disagree with the riots feel they are being unfairly
blamed. They believe the action was not the right thing to do and has only left
behind a negative impact.

It shows how just a small minority of people can give everyone else a bad image.
It can also lead to more serious problems such as creating stereotypes which can
take a long time to correct and are potentially very damaging.

The Government and local authorities should learn from the riots that they need
to find ways of making cutbacks in other areas that do not affect frontline
services, including those for young people.

The riots were a step too far; they ruined the work of those who peacefully
protested.

The rioters did not only cause criminal damage, they injured a large number of
people and their actions led to deaths.

Of course, there were many other reasons for the riots happening.

The police and other authorities must be commended for their hard work in
clearing up after the riots.

The events were appalling, they were unnecessary and they should never happen
again.

Nominations wanted for Echo awards THERE'S still time to nominate someone for
the Echo's Teen Team awards.

The awards are taking place for a second time and are part of the Echo's drive
to show that teenagers are some of the leading members of our community - but
that their efforts too often go unsung.

We still need nominations for the top spots in 14 categories, which will be
announced during a major awards night.

Nomination are due to close on Monday, October 24.

The categories are: ? The adult award for the person who has made the greatest
contribution to improving the lives of young people ? Arts and entertainment ?
Caring for others ? Charity supporter/fundraiser ? Community ? Environment ?
Education ? The friend prize for someone who has gone out of their way to be a
special friend ? High achiever ? Most improved pupil ? Positive young person ?
Sports (boys) ? Sports (girls) ? Young scientist of the year.

Organisations backing the event include Ashfords, City of Science Consortium,
EDF Energy, Exeter College, Mainline Fancy Dress, Razzamataz Theatre Schools,
Wales & West Utilities and Western Power Distribution. For details, or to make a
nomination online, visit www.thisisteen.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Negative impact: Rioters clash with police during riots in Tottenham in
August

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEE


                        Copyright 2011 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

When the mindlessness of materialism turns to madness

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 671 words


I have been nitpicking my way through page proofs for my new book, a task that
makes sticking pins into your eyes seem fun. Be that as it may, a pivotal scene
that recaptured my attention is a riot. Riots, I discovered during the writing,
are hard to construct.

They appear to erupt suddenly and without warning. The riot itself is chaotic,
adrenalin-pumped and terrifying, there is no centre to it, and there is no form.
Riots leave you dazed, confused and, all too often, ashamed of how you behaved
during the event. But riots, like all storms, do not come out of nowhere.

Thanks to the British riots I have my favourite punk band, The Clash, doing a
permanent rerun in my head; London Calling, Police and Thieves, all those great
anthems to anarchy composed in the late 1970s when Margaret Thatcher
school-ma'amed her way into power. She presided over some exemplary strikes and
riots that changed British society for ever.

When I lived in London in the late 1980s there were the poll tax riots. London
surged with East End impis armed with dustbin lids and bricks. There was the
standard stand-off with the cops, a couple of people were clobbered then
everyone went home and had a cup of tea.

In the late 1990s there were riots against global capitalism. Again, dustbin
lids, bricks, bobbies, beatings; then it was done, order was restored and it was
back to business as usual. Global capitalism seems to have done itself in over
the past decade, but who knows, maybe it needed that helping hand with a
half-brick.

These latest riots seem to be something new, a feral, formless explosion that is
not boundaried by the familiar fault lines of race and class. The symptom,
perhaps, of a malaise that is not easily cured, even as it is contained by
police action and phalanxes of good citizens poignantly marching with their
clean-up brooms.

England, when I visited in April, seemed to be short-tempered, short of cash and
short of answers about what to do about the discontent, the desperation that, to
my South African ears, was bromming like angry bees in the streets, in the
subways, in the pubs where people drink so much, so fast.

There has been a great deal of finger-pointing and name-calling about whose
fault last week's London riots were. But looking at who has been convicted for
looting, affray, arson and grievous bodily harm, it seems to me as if people
from across the spectrum of privilege are to blame. Fuelling the riots, as I
watched them, was not anger or exclusion, not politics or a cause, as I
understand them. So what was the origin of this orgy of devastation?

The riots seemed to me to be driven by the agitation of addicts who desperately
want another fix. The promise of satisfaction remains perpetually elusive in a
culture whose only purpose is to consume. Perpetual consumption erodes an
individual's sense of purpose, their sense of their own value and the value of
others. Frantic consumption - materialism - has unravelled the social fabric,
but it drives the desire for adrenalin, for expensive, useless, replaceable
things, for the reality-TV spectacle of fire and mayhem.

My 18-year-old daughter, Hannah, spent some months in London earlier this year.
Her first impressions of the ennui that comes with this addiction to buying
seemed prescient when I re-read her letter after the riots.

"I made the error of going to Oxford Street, which is utterly, brain-gratingly
mad," she wrote. 'So, so many people, who seem to have no idea at all who they
are or what they are on this gracious earth for, and so instead they all buy the
things that everyone else is buying in a vain attempt to convince themselves
that if they wear the things they ought to wear, they might find in themselves a
small grain of something sparkly and vaguely akin to an identity. Or let's start
small, rather. Maybe something vaguely akin to a personality. The whole
experience is made odder by the fact that this massively long street is filled
with all the same shops, so it becomes a surreal, abusively bright hall of
mirrors."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                Final_C Edition

Police add 20 names to Stanley Cup riot list

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 441  words


Vancouver police are recommending charges against 20 more people they feel were
breaking the law during the Stanley Cup riot.

Investigators also say they continue to use the extensive video footage of the
incident to track down those they allege were committing criminal acts on the
night of the riot.

The 20 more names bring the number of suspected rioters to 100.

Vancouver police Insp. Les Yeo said members of the Integrated Riot Investigation
Team continue to comb through video evidence and have recommended 63 criminal
charges be laid against the latest group of 20.

So far, 30 people have been charged with 78 criminal offences, and the Crown has
said it expects to approve charges against 30 others by the end of the month.

"We've reached a milestone for our team," said Yeo.

"The first 100, and as we said all along, we are not going to give up."

Yeo said they anticipate more charges in the near future.

"Investigators are working on the fourth round, and it won't be long," he said.
A total of 278 criminal charges have been recommended to the Crown.

Yeo said police are seeing the same faces pop up on video at different locations
during the June 15 riot.

"We are seeing people committing multiple offences," he said.

So far, 82 per cent of riot suspects are from outside Vancouver.

Vancouver police will be adding "hundreds more" pictures of riot suspects to the
department's website.

The names of the suspects are not being released until the Crown approves the
charges. But some snapshots of the offences are being revealed.

In one case police believe a 15-year-old is responsible for smashing a police
cruiser with a metal fence.

He helped flip over another vehicle and then stole property from the trunk. He
has no criminal record and could face mischief, theft and riot charges.

Another suspect from Surrey, a university student, is seen flicking lit
cigarettes at a pool of gas. He joined others in flipping a vehicle and was seen
lighting papers and throwing them into the cab of another truck.

In a third case, police allege a man punched various people in the face. He was
also seen smashing a store-front window with a hockey stick. The accused is well
known to police and is expected to face riot, assault and mischief charges.

Meanwhile, the first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, was in
court with his lawyer, who plans to argue against having Dickinson's sentencing
hearing broad-cast on TV. The government wants all riot-related cases televised,
but that has yet to be accepted.

Dickinson plead guilty to participating in a riot and breach of recognizance. He
will be sentenced at a later date.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Procaylo - PNG; Insp. Les Yeo on Tuesday announced that police
have recommended 278 charges against 100 people in the Stanley Cup riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Rahul Gandhi's first interview: Full text

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 11666 words


For the first time, Congress vice-president and poll campaign chief Rahul Gandhi
opens up to an elaborate sit down interview with Times Now editor in chief Arnab
Goswami. For the first time after his political debut in 2004, Rahul Gandhi
takes direct questions on wide range of subjects on Frankly Speaking with Arnab.
In the biggest political interview of 2014 Arnab asks all the questions that
India wanted answers from the Gandhi scion. Is he scared of a political face off
against Modi? What is his view of the 1984 Sikh riots? Was he a reluctant
politician? And what are his views on multiple scams that UPA 2 was affected by.

Arnab: Rahul, Thank you very much. It's great to have you on Frankly Speaking
show today. It's been 10 years as an MP for you, you fought your first election
in 2004 & this is your first TV interview.

Rahul: It's not my first interview, but it's my first formal interview of this
type.

Arnab: Why has it taken so long?

Rahul: I have done a little media interaction, prior to this. I have done press
conferences & spoken to the media. But mainly bulk of my focus has been on
internal party work and that's where I have been concentrating, that is where
most of my energy was going.

Arnab: Or is that you have been reluctant to communicate more on one to one
basis?

Rahul: Not at all, I have had many many press conferences that you have seen. I
don't have that issue.

Arnab: It's not that you wanted to avoid touching on difficult or tough issues

Rahul: I like difficult to tough issues, I like dealing with them.

Arnab: Now that this is your first detailed & long interview in 10 years, we
have a lot of ground to cover. I have one request to you right at the start of
the interview, let's be as specific as possible on the subjects we deal with
today. Do I have your Agreement on that?

Rahul: Yes, we will be specific but if I would like to sort of explain things in
a broader fashion, I think that will okay with you.

Arnab: If I want to draw you back into specifics?

Rahul: You can draw me back as much as you want

Arnab: Rahul Gandhi the first point is this; you have just avoided this whole
question about whether you are open to PM's post. It seems to me Rahul that you
are avoiding a difficult contest.

Rahul: See, if you look at the speech I gave at AICC a few days back. The issue
is basically how the Prime Minister in this country is chosen. The way the Prime
Minister is chosen in this country is through the MPs. Our system chooses MPs &
MPs elect Prime Minister. I said pretty clearly in my speech in AICC, that if
the Congress party so chooses & Congress party wants me to do anything for them,
I am happy to do that. It's respect for the process. In fact announcing your PM
prior to an election, announcing your PM without asking the members of
Parliament, is not actually written in the constitution.

Arnab: You did that in 2009?

Rahul: No, we didn't

Arnab: Of course you did?

Rahul: What we did in 2009 was that we had an incumbent Prime Minister. Prime
Minister won the election, he then went to Parliament. The members of Parliament
decided that, that Prime Minister will continue, and there was actually a
process where he was asked.

Arnab: But you named your Prime Ministerial candidate?

Rahul: We had an incumbent Prime Minister and there was no question of our
changing him.

Arnab: See Rahul we can go up and down on this question. The fact of the matter
is this, who else will they choose, and who else will Congress MPs choose if not
Rahul Gandhi?

Rahul: That is up to them right, but what one has to do and this is central to
what I keep saying is that democracy is about respect of processes. Democracy is
about non-arbitrary decisions. Democracy is about spreading decisions; it is not
about destroying processes. There is a process in the constitution and that
process says, and it is clearly written in the constitution, and it says members
of parliament are to be elected by the population and members of parliament are
to elect the Prime Minister. All I am doing is respecting that process.

Arnab: Are you avoiding a direct face-off with Narendra Modi? Is there a fear of
loss Rahul because this election is not looking good for the Congress party from
overall estimates? And the growing belief is that if Rahul Gandhi has not picked
up the challenge officially that means that there is a fear of loss, he is
avoiding a direct one on one battle with Narendra Modi, you must answer that?

Rahul: To understand that question you have to understand a little bit about who
Rahul Gandhi is and what Rahul Gandhi's circumstances have been and if you delve
into that you will get an answer to the question of what Rahul Gandhi is scared
of and what he is not scared of. The real question is what I am doing sitting
here, you are a journalist, when you were small you must have said to yourself I
want to do something, you decided to become a journalist at some point, why did
you do that?

Arnab: You are asking me the question

Rahul: Yes, I am asking you a question, it is a conversation

Arnab: Because I like and enjoy being a journalist, it is a professional
challenge for me. My question is you avoiding a direct face-off with Mr.
Narendra Modi?

Rahul: I am going to answer the question but I just want to ask you, when you
were young and thought of being a journalist what drove you?

Arnab: Once I decided to become a journalist, I can't be half a journalist. Once
you have decided to get into politics and you are leading your party
effectively, you can't be leading your party by half, so I'll throw the
question, with respect, back to you, Narendra Modi is challenging you on a daily
basis?

Rahul: You are not answering my question, but I will answer the question and
that will give you some insight into how Rahul Gandhi thinks. For that I will
have to expand a little bit about my growing up, how I grew up and the
circumstances in which I grew up. What I saw when I was a child ,was my father,
who was a pilot, and because of circumstances was thrown into the political
system and all I saw when was small after my grandmother died was my father in
constant-constant combat with the system in India and then I saw him die
actually. In my life I have seen my grandmother die, I have seen my father die,
I have seen my grandmother go to jail and I have actually been through a
tremendous amount of pain as a child when these things happen to you, what I had
to scared of I lost, there is absolutely nothing I am scared of. I have an aim,
I have a clear aim in my mind and the aim is that I do not like what I see in
Indian politics, it is something that is inside my heart. It is like in our
mythology when they talk about Arjun, he only sees one thing, he does not see
anything else, you asked me about Mr. Modi you ask me about anything and the
thing that I see is that the system in this country needs to change, I don't see
anything else and I am blind to everything else. I am blind because I saw people
I love destroyed by the system. I am blind because the system everyday is unfair
to our people, I ask you today, you come from Assam and I am sure that you also
in your work feel the unfairness of the system. The system everyday-everyday
hurts people and I have felt the pain that the system can cause. I felt the pain
with my father, I saw him every single day of his life, so the question of
whether I am afraid of losing an election or whether I am afraid of Mr. Modi is
not actually the point. I am here basically for one thing, I see tremendous
energy in this country, I see more energy in this country than any other
country, I see billions of youngsters and I see this energy is trapped.

Arnab: Can I draw you back to my question. I will go into those areas and I
respect what you are telling me about your personal journey, It's not Rahul, as
if I lack empathy for what you are saying, in fact I am pretty sure many people
do but my question to you is Narendra Modi calls you a Shehzada, now let's be
very specific Rahul. Narendra Modi calls you a Shehzada, a) what is your view of
Narendra Modi b) are you afraid of losing to Narendra Modi, Rahul please answer
my question as specifically as you can?

Rahul: What Rahul Gandhi wants to do, is Rahul Gandhi and millions of youngsters
in this country want to change the way the system in this country works. What
Rahul Gandhi wants to do is empower the women in this country, wants to unleash
the power of these women, I mean we talk about being a superpower...

Arnab: You are avoiding the question

Rahul: No I am not avoiding the question

Arnab: My question to you is, what is the Congress Vice President's view of the
BJP Prime Ministerial candidate

Rahul: I think we will defeat the BJP in the next elections

Arnab: And what is your view of BJP's prime ministerial candidate?

Rahul: The BJP has prime ministerial candidate, the BJP believes in
concentration of power in the hands of one person, I fundamentally disagree with
that, I believe in democracy, I believe in opening up the system. I believe in
the RTI, I believe in giving power to our people. We have fundamentally
different philosophies

Arnab: What is your view, would like to expound your views, your PM accuses
Narendra Modi in his press conference of presiding over "the mass massacre of
innocent citizens on the streets of Ahmedabad." Mr. Rahul Gandhi my question to
you is this, do you agree with your PM when he says that?

Rahul: Well, I mean what the Prime Minister is saying is a fact, Gujarat
happened, people died but the real issue as far I am concerned...

Arnab: How do you accuse Mr. Narendra Modi of it?

Rahul: Gujarat happened, people died. The real issue at hand here is...

Arnab: How is Mr. Modi responsible?

Rahul: He was CM when Gujarat happened

Arnab: The fact remains that Narendra Modi has been given a clean chit, in the
Gulbarg massacre case by the SIT and the court Mr. Gandhi. My question to you is
"can the Congress party sustain it's attack on Mr. Narendra Modi on this issue
when he has been given the clean chit by the courts in the Gujarat riots

Rahul : The congress party and the BJP have two completely different
philosophies, our attack on the BJP is based on the idea that this country needs
to move forward democratically, it needs push democracy deeper into the country,
it needs to push democracy into the villagers, it needs to give women democratic
powers, it needs to give youngsters democratic powers. It is about opening the
doors of the congress party, about empowering the youth

Arnab : How is Narendra Modi responsible for the riots when the courts have
given him a clean chit, politically your party's tact to criticise Narendra Modi
and draw him into the Gujarat riots?

Rahul: Our political party is fighting an ideological battle Against the BJP and
let me draw out the two pillars- our party believes that women should be
empowered, democracy should go to every house, that RTI, and the MNREGA paradigm
should be further expanded. The BJP believes power should be extremely
concentrated in this country, few people should run this country and the large
mass of this country should have no voice.

Arnab: Specifically speaking how is Narendra Modi, your party criticised him for
the 2002 Gujarat riots, and how can you do that when he has been given a clean
chit in the Gulbarg massacre by the SIT of the court. It was challenged in the
court, the court upheld the SIT finding and therefore legally speaking Mr.
Gandhi you cannot draw Narendra Modi into the Gujarat riots, implicate him
personally. Do you believe that strategy of your party is fundamentally wrong?

Rahul: The strategy of the party is very simple. Everything we have done over
that last 5-10years, in fact if you look all the way back to the freedom
movement, every single thing we have ever done is empower people. We empowered
people in the freedom movement, we empowered farmers in the Green revolution,
and we empowered the citizens of India when we did the telecom revolution. We
have empowered millions and millions of people through frankly the most powerful
legislation that has ever taken place in this country called the RTI- Right to
information. Things that used to be closed, things that were in closed doors
which nobody knew about

Arnab: I will come to that but you haven't answered my question. Gujarat riots
is the question, your party has consistently wanted to put Mr. Narendra Modi on
the back foot on the Gujarat riots, he says "the court has given me clean chit"
and I am asking you today, is your party's argument about putting him on the
back foot on Gujarat is flawed given the ways the courts have looked at it

Rahul: The PM has stated his position on the Gujarat riots. The Gujarat riots
took place, people died, Mr. Narendra Modi was in charge of Gujarat at that
point. I am bringing you to a real ideological battle that is taking place here.
The real ideological battle that is taking place here and the one we are going
to win and that has always been one in this country is the battle of empowering
people in this country. Of course there is your point of the Gujarat riots and
it is very important that people who have taken part in this kind of thing are
brought to book. But the real issue at hand here is empowering the women of this
country, giving them true power. We talk about India being a superpower we can
only be half a superpower if our women are not empowered. What I want to do is
going forward is basically focus on three things. Focus on empowering our
people, truly empowering our people, giving them democratic rights within the
political party. I want youngsters who come in and really, really push democracy
in the party. I want to empower them and I want to make India, together with
everybody, taking everybody together I want to put India on the manufacturing
map, I want to make this the centre of manufacturing in the world. I want to
make this place at least as much as a manufacturing power as China.

Arnab: You say that Narendra Modi was CM during the Gujarat riots and the BJP
was in power. The BJP was as much in power in Gujarat during the riots as much
as Akhilesh is in power in UP or for that matter the Congress party was in power
when the 1984 Anti Sikh riots happened, now let me quote, you spoke in one of
your speeches of the anger of your Grandmothers death, I think it was campaign
trail in Rajasthan. You spoke about knowing the people who killed her and you
spoke about anger and managing your own anger and quelling your own anger and
drawing it into strength elsewhere. Now that speech of yours became a subject of
controversy with Narendra Modi posing a series a questions to you on 1984 and he
said the following and I want to quote him and your categorical and specific
response "he's crying for the assassination of his Grandmother but has he shed
tears of those killed in the 1984 riots, I want to ask the Shehzada and you
remember Mr. Gandhi he's constantly deriding you by calling you a Shehzada,
whether your party kills Sikhs in anger when your Grandmother died, so following
from this I have 2 questions, my first question; do you acknowledge the role of
congressmen in the 1984 riots, B) will you apologise for the riots as your party
demands an apology from Modi for the Gujarat riots?

Rahul: Two things, in 1977 when my Grandmother lost the election we went and
lived ....and the people who came with my Grandmother, those people who stood by
my Grandmother were Sikhs. Pretty much everyone had deserted my Grandmother but
the Sikhs were standing with my Grandmother. I think the Sikhs are probably one
of the industrious people in this country. I admire them; we have a PM who is a
Sikh. I don't have the same world view as my opposition. What those two people
did to my Grandmother, was two individuals, I don't turn around and take my
anger which existed then, frankly, it doesn't exist now and brush it onto an
entire community, that's just not me.

Arnab: I am sure you don't, my question is do you acknowledge the role of
Congress men in the 1984 riots because

Rahul: I am coming to your question

Arnab: I am sure you don't, my question is do you acknowledge the role of
Congress men in the 1984 riots because there must be justice. Mr. Gandhi there
has to be finality, the Gujarat riot cases have moved forward and many people
have got justice, if I just compare that to the 1984 riots, you can look at the
status and case history of what happened to Mr. Sajjan Kumar, Jagdish Tytler,
HKL Bhagat, Dharam Das Shastri and the one story that you hear there is these
cases are endless, they go on for the longest period of time. I am asking you
again, Mr. Gandhi before you seek an apology from Modi would you apologise for
the 1984 riots, would that be something that you consider?

Rahul: I do not take my anger which existed on 2 individuals who did something
evil and wrong and overlay it on millions of people. I think that's criminal.
Did the Sikh riots take place in Delhi? Absolutely. Were they completely wrong?
Absolutely.

Arnab : Were Congressmen involved?

Rahul : Did innocent people die? Absolutely

Arnab : Were Congressmen involved?

Rahul : Some Congress men were probably involved

Arnab : Has justice been delivered to them?

Rahul : There is a legal process through which they have gone through

Arnab : You admit some Congressmen were probably involved

Rahul : Some congressmen have been punished for it

Arnab : In that case, why don't you apologise for the 1984 riots? The
congressmen who you are talking about are still fighting their cases and in 2009
if I am not mistaken Jagdish Tytler, Mr. Rahul Gandhi. Was going to get
nominated as a congress candidate, it was only following the media furore that
his nomination was taken back. Mr. Gandhi I am asking you this question in all
seriousness do you feel that Congressmen were involved and 2)Do you believe if
you apologise for the riots there will be finality

Rahul : The fact of the matter is that innocent people died in 1984 and innocent
people dying is a horrible thing and should not happen. The difference between
Gujarat and 1984 was that the Government of Gujarat was involved in the riots

Arnab: How do you say that

Rahul: I mean....

Arnab : The CM of Gujarat has been given a clean chit by the courts

Rahul : The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in
1984 the Government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child
then, I remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots.
In Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong

Arnab : Explain that. Government of Gujarat was aiding and abetting the riots is
what you just said, explain that?

Rahul : I mean it's not me...it's the large number of people who were there,
large number of people who saw actively the Government of Gujarat being involved
in the riots.

Arnab : You will keep that line despite the CM getting a clean chit form the
courts?

Rahul : I mean, people saw it. I am not the person who saw it, your colleague
saw it. Your colleagues told me

Arnab : They saw the riots?

Rahul : The saw the administration actively attacking minorities

Arnab: What are you saying? Can you explain?

Rahul : I am saying that there was difference between the 1984 riots and the
riots in Gujarat. The difference was that the Government in 1984 was trying to
stop the riots, trying to stop the killing whereas the Government in Gujarat was
allowing the riots to happen.

Arnab: If the government in Delhi and in the center was trying to stop the riots
in 1984, then tell me, how is it possible that Sajjan Kumar was named in Fir's
on the grounds of inciting violence in outer Delhi leading to the murder of
Sikhs. The status of the case is known. How is Jagdish Tytler, accused of
inciting the mob in Pulbangash leading to murder and rioting in the area. How is
the late HKL Bhagat accused of inciting violence. And you know that a plea in
the Delhi Court was closed after his death. How did these Congress leaders do
what they did allegedly, if the government was so strongly and proactively
acting against the riots?

Rahul: There is a process. See there is a legal process. And that process is on.
Okay.

Arnab: There was an SIT finding. It was challenged by Zakia Jafri. It went up
there and the courts upheld what the SIT found. Are you questioning the wisdom
of the courts Mr. Gandhi?

Rahul: Look. All I'm saying, all I'm saying is that there is a difference
between the 1984 riots and the Gujarat riots. The simple difference is that in
1984 the government was not involved in the massacre of people. In Gujarat it
was. The question is why do these kind of things take place. Why is it that the
Gujarat riots took place? The Gujarat riots took place frankly because of the
way our system is structured, because of the fact that people do not have a
voice in the system. And what I want to do. And I have said it and I will say it
again. What I want to do is question the fundamentals over here. What I want to
do is ask a couple of questions. I want to ask why candidates that are chosen in
every single party are chosen by a tiny number of people. I want to ask why
women have to be scared to go out on the street. I want to ask these questions.
These are fundamental questions.

Arnab: I appreciate that you believe in transparency. I'll move away from
Gujarat but I must say that I have not found this comparison between 1984 riots
and 2002 riots that they are two different cases. I can't take this at face
value Mr. Gandhi. The reason for this is because in both cases the government,
the accusation is that the government could have done a little bit more. But at
the same time I want you to, once more if you can substantiate. You stand by
what you said, that the Chief Minister and the government of Gujarat played a
role in abetting the riots? You stand by what you said?

Rahul: All I'm saying is there is a difference between the 1984 riots and the
Gujarat riots. The difference is that the government of the day in 1984 was not
aiding and abetting the riots. That is all I'm saying.

Arnab: So you don't need to apologise for the '84 riots. If someone seeks an
apology from you, will you give it? Your Prime Minister has apologised for the
riots. Expressed deep regret. Will you do the same?

Rahul: First of all I wasn't involved in the riots at all. It wasn't that I was
part of it.

Arnab: On behalf of you party.

Rahul: I think that riots, as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly I was
not in operation in the Congress party.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi let's move on to the RTI. Which is the single biggest
legislation to combat corruption. Which you said in your speech at the AICC that
was something that you were speaking about. Now, I find it ironical that a party
which has 90.38% of its funds from cash between 2008 and 2012. 89.11% of its
money comes from unaccounted sources, unnamed sourced. Why would you not say
charity begins at home? And let us put the Congress party and its funds under
the scanner of the RTI. Why would you not bring the same freshness of
perspective in this case as you did when you dealt with the issue of the
ordinance.

Rahul: I think that political parties should be under RTI if political parties
feel, and it's a law that has to be passed in parliament. If political parties
unanimously feel that that should be the case then it should be the case.

Arnab: What was your view? What will be your view on it?

Rahul: My position is that the more openness the better.

Arnab: So your own personal view is that your political parties should be under
RTI?

Rahul: See the issue is this. Laws in this country are passed by parliament.
What one needs to do is pass a law in parliament that brings RTI in the
political party. I have a personal view on it but you have to take that view
through parliament. I have a view also for example on the six bills that are
sitting in parliament.

Arnab: I'll come to that. But my question is on the RTI. I want your view on it.
You are a very influential politician. You have demonstrated some of your
actions in the past that what you say and do can influence the decisions in
government and in parliament. So my question to you is very significant. You
said, in the AICC you said we enacted this revolutionary law to hand you power
knowing fully well that it would place our own government under severe scrutiny.
I agree with you. What about placing your own party under scrutiny? Are you open
to that?

Rahul: I am the first person who has been saying over the last five years,
talking about transparency in the party. I have made the Youth Congress and the
NSUI fully elected bodies. I have spoken about the six bills in parliament. I
have spoken about the Lokpal Bill and I have pushed the Lokpal Bill. I was
involved in the RTI. We worked together to bring the RTI. So as far as
transparency in the political party is concerned I am absolutely for
transparency. There are questions about the RTI that need to be discussed and
thought through. The real question is that our system is based on different
pillars. And the question is which ones of these pillars should have RTI.
Because, if you only put RTI into one pillar and you don't have RTI in for
example the judiciary and the press and in other areas then you might create an
imbalance. Am I for opening up? Am I for bringing RTI into as many places
possible? Absolutely. Am I for creating an imbalance and weakening the
legislative structures of this country. No I am not.

Arnab: How does putting political parties under the purview of the Right to
Information Act, how does that actually weaken the legislative process? It
brings in transparency.

Rahul: It brings in transparency but it changes the balance of power.

Arnab: How?

Rahul: Because the judiciary does not come under RTI. The press does not have
RTI. Other components of the system do not have RTI.

Arnab: The press does not rule the country.

Rahul: No it doesn't. Okay. The Judiciary does not have RTI. So you have to have
a complete thinking. So if you want to bring RTI. If you want to deepen RTI, you
have to think about it in a composite manner. You cannot just say, 'Okay let's
put RTI here, put RTI here'. You have to have a strategy to put RTI and open the
system together. And as far as opening the system is concerned.

Arnab: But you are willing to let a discussion happen on brining political
parties under RTI?

Rahul: Of course I am.

Arnab: You're not opposed to that.

Rahul: No I am not opposed to any discussion, ever.

Arnab: On this specific subject.

Rahul: On all subjects. One has to take care that one is not creating imbalances
in the system. And that's something that one has to discuss.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi do I sense that you are almost committing yourself and then
pulled back.

Rahul: No, no, no. I have said that I am happy to have a discussion.

Arnab: You're happy to have a discussion?

Rahul: Of course.

Arnab: On bringing political parties under RTI?

Rahul: Absolutely.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi.

Rahul: But let me just go back and let me give you... Let me go further than
that. The central question in all this is who chooses political candidates and
how? The central issue in all this is what is the power of the Member of
Parliament, the power of the MLA and the power of the Pradhan in political
system? If you look at the legislative power of a Member of Parliament, you look
at the legislative power of an MLA today and you look at the role he plays in
Parliament and the role he plays in the assembly. He doesn't actually make laws.
He presses buttons. Go to a state like Uttar Pradesh and you look at actually
the law making, the law making done by the MLAs, it's extremely limited. You
can't talk about bringing people into politics. You can't talk about opening up
the system until you start to empower these people.

Arnab: Was it part of the empowerment of people that Ashok Chavan was protected
in the Adarsh Scam despite the fact that the judicial commission actually said
that he was involved in a quid pro quo? A Chief Minister, an ex Chief Minister
forced to go because of one of the biggest scams. Which was by the way Mr. Rahul
Gandhi played out greatly on TIMES NOW. Is he being protected? The CBI is not
getting permission to prosecute him. You can say all this Mr. Rahul Gandhi about
the legislative framework to fight corruption. But my question to you is more
fundamental. You have not shown the political will to use your tremendous
influence to ensure that Ashok Chavan faces justice. You said a little bit and
you moved back. Why are you still protecting Ashok Chavan.

Rahul: I'm sorry the Congress party wherever we have had issues of corruption we
have taken action. On every front. We are the ones who brought the RTI which is
the single biggest weapon against corruption. And we got it ourselves. We are
the ones who delivered RTI to this country.

Arnab: Your Maharashtra cabinet rejected the judicial commission report on
Adarsh. And after that the governor refused to give prosecution to go against
Ashok Chavan. None of this was part of the empowerment of the people. You said
you're not for it. After that in some kind of tardy, if I may say so, partial
acceptance of the report. The bureaucrats are blamed and each and every
politician including Mr. Ashok Chavan gets away. I want to ask you Mr. Rahul
Gandhi. You said you will not compromise. You will not make small compromises.
How big a compromise was it for you to continue to protect Mr. Ashok Chavan. Why
are you protecting Ashok Chavan?

Rahul: I made my position on Ashok Chavan clear

Rahul: Ashok Chavan absolutely clear. I made it front of a press conference. I
made it absolutely clear exactly what I thought about that issue. Let me again
go back to the issue at hand. The issue at hand is bringing in youngsters into
the political system. Opening the doors...

Arnab: The Chief Minister did a sort of partial acceptance which basically means
bureaucrats are faulted in the report. They are penalised. Indicted politicians
get away. Mr. Rahul Gandhi I am asking you this because you've come up on the
issue. Do you have the political conviction to push this through. What will you
say to the people watching this interview today, who will say, 'You know what,
you said it' but you're not taking responsibility. The man still gets away
scot-free. Why should a bureaucrat be punished and a Congress politician be let
off?

Rahul: What I will say is that in the Congress party anybody who does any act of
corruption will be taken up and punished.

Arnab: What about Ashok Chavan?

Rahul: Every single person.

Arnab: But he has got away.

Rahul: What I will say is that there are six bills in parliament that are
sitting there bring them in. Pass them.

Arnab: But your words are not matching your actions Mr. Rahul Gandhi. You're
saying it but all the politicians they got away scot-free, including not just
Ashok Chavan. There are several NCP ministers. All of whom tried to interfere
and meddle in the process. They used the name of Kargil Mr. Rahul Gandhi to give
themselves private profit. If you say this and you have the conviction why are
you not following it through?

Rahul: I have made it absolutely crystal clear right in front of the press what
I think about this issue. Arnab: But nothing happened.

Rahul: What do you mean nothing happened?

Arnab: Ashok Chavan faces no action.

Rahul: Absolutely not. What all I'm saying is that anybody, regardless of who he
is, if there is any corruption by any Congress person we will take action.

Arnab: Would you like to see Ashok Chavan facing action? Rahul: We have punished
our own minister. We have put the most powerful bills in the Parliament house.
Please get those bills passed. That's what I tell the opposition in this
country.

Arnab: I am giving you two examples. One ex Chief Minister and one a current
Chief Minister. Virbhadra Singh. My question to you is we have papers which have
shown that the Chief Minister takes money from a company which his government
does business with. And he takes money. Large amounts of money are put in. And
then he says I just took the money as a personal loan because I wanted to do
renovations in my Palace. My question is Mr. Rahul Gandhi. And this is really
fundamental because you have taken a position on corruption of late. Do you
think it appropriate of another Chief Minister of a state to be deciding on the
fate of a company, that he is revealed to have close links with? And by not
speaking on it, because you've not spoken on it, aren't you missing on yet
another opportunity to address the issue of corruption with Virbhadra Singh?

Rahul: As far as any corruption done, there is a legal process. And that legal
process should be followed and concluded. As far as my personal view is
concerned, anybody who is corrupt should be brought to book.

Arnab: Was the legal process completed when A Raja was asked to leave the
cabinet?

Rahul: We took action against the DMK ministers.

Arnab: Was the legal process completed when Mr. Kalmadi was asked to leave as
Secretary of the Congress Parliamentary Committee?

Rahul: We took action on the corrupt ministers. We have passed a bill in
parliament. The Lokpal Bill. The most powerful thing. We got you RTI and we got
six bills sitting in Parliament house. We have to change the way the system
works. We are always talking about peripheral things. We are never talking about
the core reason this system is corrupt. The core reason the season is corrupt is
that there is too much concentration of power in the system and people on the
peripheries do not have power. The people on the streets do not have power. And
that the reason that happens is that our political system, political parties are
shut. We need to open the door of the political parties. We need to move, carry
out more legislation like RTI and we need to change the system.

Arnab: Are you open to taking action on Ashok Chavan and Virbhadra Singh? Have
you seen the papers yourself? Will you examine them Mr. Gandhi? Will you examine
it?

Rahul: Anybody who is corrupt should be punished. I am not a judge. So if there
is a legal process and there is a result of the legal process, absolutely they
should be punished.

Arnab: There is no case being followed against Mr. Virbhadra Singh.

Rahul: Yes I know that but I am saying that it is not my job. My job is when I
see issues of corruption, take action on it. That's what I do.

Arnab: Well Mr. Gandhi now you see. The other question is, should you have
spoken up much much earlier? You know you didn't. Everyone wants to know today
why you didn't speak up during 2G. Why didn't you speak up during Coalgate? Why
didn't you speak up? I think it was June 2010 that TIMES NOW broke the CWG scam
and railgate. You could have spoken up. And you can't take the defence that you
were not very actively there. You have for some time been effectively in-charge
of the 2014 re-election campaign.

Rahul: My position was that I report to the Prime Minister. Whatever I felt I
had conversations with the Prime Minister. Whatever I felt about the issues I
made it abundantly clear to the Prime Minister. I was involved in the
legislation, RTI legislation. And now I have helped pass the Lokpal Bill. I
bring you back. The real issue here is participation of people in politics. It
is bringing youngsters into the political system, it's opening out the political
system. That's where nobody wants to talk. Everybody is perfectly happy with 500
people running the entire system in India. Nobody, none of you want to raise
that issue. The fundamental issue. How do we chose candidates?

Arnab: Do you feel that you have undermined by remaining silent? I want to ask
you this when the Pawan Bansal and Ashwini Kumar episode happened for six days
the Govt batted back, everyone said this is unacceptable. Six days the
Parliament was washed out, do you feel in retrospect that you could have spoke
out earlier, Mr. Gandhi please be frank with me on this.

Rahul: What I feel is that this country needs to look at the fundamental issues
at hand, the fundamental political issue at hand is that our Political system is
controlled by too few people and we absolutely have to change the way our
political system is structured, we have to change our Political parties, we have
to make them more transparent, we have to change the processes that we use to
elect candidates, we have to empower women in the political parties, that is
where the meat of the issue but I don't hear that discussion, I don't hear the
discussion about how are we actually choosing that candidate, that is never the
discussion.

Arnab: So I am asking you how are you choosing Ashok Chavan? That is a
discussion I am willing to have, how are you choosing Virbhadra Singh , they are
elected representatives they hold clout, does their clout make them oblivious to
public accountability and scrutiny?

Rahul: Their clout doesn't make them oblivious, but the point here is the system
is the system behind them that has no processes no systems and we just assume
that thing is going to work. What we have to do is we have to open that up. We
have to bring youngsters into that and that no-one is discussing.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi a lot of people felt when you said that I will not make
compromises, you have got a round of applause when you spoke up on the
ordinance. There are many people have faulted you for your technique, they say
you could have chosen a more discreet way. My question is will you make
compromises, are you willing to make compromises for political purposes,
alliances or convenience?

Rahul: My long term view is that we need to take the Indian political system to
a different place. We need to bring in youngsters and we need to move away from
this concentration of power. Unfortunately the political system today is at a
particular place and I can't simply ignore the fact that the political system is
at that place, so certainly there are points at which you might have to take a
decision that you are not a 100% happy with but the long term idea for me is to
transform the system, to bring in youngsters and make sure they are empowered.

Arnab: Lalu Prasad has been convicted on the 30th of September 2013 for the
alleged fraudulent withdrawal of crores of rupees from the Chaibasa treasury in
the 90s, the case you are completely aware of. My question is will you make that
compromise despite that case to enter into a political arrangement, because when
you spoke on the ordinance there was also the backdrop of that case coming up,
will you make that compromise?

Rahul: These decisions of the Congress party are made by senior leaders.

Arnab: You are the boss.

Rahul: Our alliance in Bihar is with a political party with an idea not an
individual, we are making alliance, and it is not certain that we are going to
make an alliance, we are in process of talking to people and our alliance is
with an idea, with a party, not an individual

Arnab: If I were to take that further and challenge you that there is talk of a
possible alliance with the DMK and Lalu Prasad, and if you are accused by your
political opponents that he talks about not making compromises but he agrees to
enter into convenient alliances with parties for short term gains, how will you
justify yourself?

Rahul: We are fighting an election, we are going to win that election, there are
our alliance partners, there is our alliance partner in Maharashtra, and there
is our alliance partner in Bihar and Jharkhand. We are making an alliance with
their view not with an individual.

Arnab: Leader of the party is Lalu Prasad, hence you are making an alliance with
an individual?

Rahul: No, we are making an alliance with a political party.

Arnab: But these are not settled alliances yet but you are open to them?

Rahul: Yes

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi the other question is about price rise and you got a round of
applause when you spoke about the LPG cylinders, you told the Prime Minister
quite charmingly - that Mr. PM please make things less difficult for households.
But I am questioning your silence all these years, because in this period from
2004-2013 the wholesale price index of food goes up by 157%, vegetables by 350%
and Onions by 521%, you don't speak on that. When Raj Babbar says you can get
food at 12 rupees a meal, you don't speak then , when Rashid Masood says you can
get food at 5 rupees a meal you don't speak then, the accusation there is and
the general feeling Mr. Rahul Gandhi is that you have really woken up to the
issue after the 4-0 drubbing in the last state election, do you concede that?

Rahul: No, I think women are the backbone of this country and women need to be
empowered and I felt that price rise is an issue cylinders were a big issue, I
went to Kerala and I go a sense that women were concerned about that and I made
that view clear to everybody in the AICC session.

Arnab: But you didn't intervene earlier?

Rahul: I have been working with the PM on the Price rise issue, I have been in
discussions with him and we have taken steps in our states, where we have called
the Chief Ministers and we have taken steps where we have actually reduced the
prices of vegetables in our states, so it is not that I just woke up, it is that
I have been working on it systematically. But what I really feel that we need to
start looking at empowering women, bringing them in and listening to them.

Arnab: Did UPA 2 let you down on prices?

Rahul: Prices are a reality...

Arnab: Did the Govt let you down, when I look back at your comments I find a
comment each time, in 2009, 2010, 2011 you had lot of faith in the PM...

Rahul: I still have faith in the PM he is our leader...

Arnab: Does the Govt's track record on prices not make your faith in the PM
shake a little?

Rahul: We are working on prices, as I said we have spoken to our Chief Ministers
and we have reduced prices in states where we are in power.

Arnab: So you have not woken up to it only because of political purposes?

Rahul: No

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi what do you think of the Aam Admi Party and why are your views
constantly shifting on the AAP, on the 8th of December after the loss you quite
candidly spoke about traditional and non-traditional parties - non-traditional
parties being those who have involved a lot of people. Suddenly I find that now
seem to be over critical of the AAP, I presume you were talking of them when you
said that there are people who can give haircuts to the Bald, were you referring
to them when you said parties who over market themselves, which parties were you
talking about?

Rahul: The work that I have done in the Congress party, the work that I have
done in the youth Congress and the work that I am going to do in the future is
about bringing in youngsters into the party, strengthening processes,
strengthening candidate selection process and strengthening policy processes. I
made a comment about the AAP where I said that there is something that we can
learn from them and what I felt that we could learn from them is that they
reached out to people in a particular way that was good, there are things that I
don't think we should take away from them. I think we have fundamental strengths
in the Congress party and it is something that we have been working on for 3-4
years now and the real power of the Congress party is the depth of the
organization and you can't makes changes by destroying things.

Arnab: But in a recent interview Mr. Chidambaram said he felt the decision to
give support to the AAP was unnecessary and that the opinion was divided on this
within the Congress. Having seen what you have seen in recent days and the chaos
that followed in Delhi, do you agree with that view? Do you feel in retrospect
that support to the AAP is something you shouldn't have done? Please be candid
and frank with me on this.

Rahul: I think that as far as I am concerned that the AAP won an election in
Delhi and we thought that we would assist them Arnab: They got less seats than
the BJP

Rahul: We thought we would assist them, because our party felt we should give
them a chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one
can see exactly how much they have proved themselves.

Arnab: What is your view on Arvind Kejriwal?

Rahul: He is a leader of an opposition party like many others, what we have to
do as the Congress party and again in front of us is an election, what we have
to do is 3 things. One is we have to transform ourselves, we have bring in
youngsters, we have to give them space. Two is we have to look at manufacturing,
we have already set up the corridors North, South, East & West, how we can take
the energy of the Indian people and build a manufacturing superhouse... That is
what I think the real issues are.

Arnab: Are you using the AAP to split the Anti Congress vote bank, to keep Mr.
Modi out of power

Rahul: You are implying that we have brought the AAP...

Arnab: I am not implying, there is a theory that the Congress is propping up the
AAP and keeping them on an extended leash so that they somehow divide
anti-Congress vote bank. Had the AAP not been there the BJP would have done
better and that experiment could be extended?

Rahul: I think you underestimate the power of the Congress party, I don't think
the Congress party could even do that if they wanted to. The Congress party is
an extremely powerful system and all the Congress party needs to do is bring in
younger fresher faces in the election which is what we are going to do and we
are going to win the election.

Arnab: You will win the election?

Rahul: Yeah, I will win the election

Arnab: You are confident about that?

Rahul : Reasonably confident

Arnab: And if you don't win do you take full responsibility for it ?

Rahul: If we don't win, I am the VP of the party of course I will take
responsibility for it..

Arnab: If the AAP goes against Sheila Dikshit in the CWG scam, will you continue
to support them?

Rahul: I have already said that regardless of who the person is, if there is an
issue of corruption the law should take its own course, that's my position.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi I now want to understand a little bit on your personal side,
my first question is that you have faced a lot of criticism, how do you handle
criticism? People say he has his heart in the right place but is he a vote
catcher, they pull out all the recent state elections UP, Delhi, MP, Rajasthan
and Chhattisgarh, they say he has not despite playing an active role achieved
considerable electoral success. They are questioning your vote winning ability,
what would you say to them Mr. Gandhi?

Rahul: I would say when we win an election, when we won Uttarakhand, Himachal
and when we won Karnataka , I am not involved, when we lose an election I am the
cause of it. But once again I think what the Congress Party need to do is tap
its potential, what the Congress party needs to do is change the way the its
organisation is structured and look at changing the way politics in this country
is structured, that is where I think we should head. Questions about whether we
have supported AAP or not supported AAP, frankly it is a ridiculous notion. It
is ridiculous that we would construct the AAP...

Arnab: You supported them, you gave them a lease of life so that they divide the
Anti Congress vote

Rahul: That ascribes huge power to the Congress party, I think the Congress
party's strength comes when we open up when we bring in new people, that is
historically been the case and that is what I want to do.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi why do you keep invoking your family name. I have seen you
refer, with respect, to your father and your grandmother repeatedly. Now Mr.
Gandhi some would say you should be careful of doing that because when you
invoke your family and its achievement from the Congress, you can be accused of
touting your family background for your own political career and the second is
you would be re-entrenching yourself in the role of being a dynast at a time
when being a dynast is not seen to be a good thing? Do you agree?

Rahul: I don't actually keep invoking my family name, I have mentioned my family
name once or twice and then people report that. The real issue is that I didn't
choose to be born in this family, I didn't sign up and say that I like to be
born in this family it happened, so the choice in front of me is pretty simple I
can either turn around and say okay I will just walk away from this thing and
leave it alone or I can say I can try and improve something. Pretty much every
single thing I have done in my political career has been to bring in youngsters
, has been to open up, has been to democratise. I am absolutely against the
concept of Dynasty, anybody who knows me knows that and understands that. But
you are not going to wish away Dynasty in a closed system, you have to open the
system. Dynasty or children of politicians becoming powerful happens in the BJP,
it happens in the DMK, it happens in the SP, it happens in the Congress party,
it happens everywhere.

Arnab: Then how are you different?

Rahul: You have to go into why it is happening.

Arnab: It is happening because dynasties are allowed to proliferate, it is
because a Scindia's son is a minister a Deora's son is a minister a Pilot's son
is a minister. A PM's son is the Congress VP that is dynasty. Change is not
happening at the top, you want change at the bottom. There are people out there
who are saying that we want change at the top.

Rahul: The reason children of politicians keep getting repositioned is because
the system is closed. You are not going to change that without opening the
system, you are not going to open the system without having processes, the
system is not going to open by waving a wand and saying Abracadabra let us open
the system. It is going to take time, it is going to take effort and it is going
to take structure. That is the work that I do. That is the work I spent a whole
bunch of my time doing that is the revolutionary work I have done in the IYC and
the NSUI that is the work we are doing when we talk of an open manifesto. That
is the work we are doing when we talk of 15 parliamentary seats being chosen.

Arnab: Only 15?

Rahul: Absolutely, because one needs to set up the systems, if I was to suddenly
launch into 543 seats directly elected by our people the system would explode.
What I need to do is I need to set up an idea, test the idea, run the idea, if
it makes sense, if it works then move it to the rest of the party. The step we
have taken with those 15 primaries, we get that much of a little piece in the
newspaper, but that is probably the biggest political step taken in this
country. It is a huge-huge step and I think those are the types of questions one
needs to ask, one doesn't ask them, one asks questions that don't actually reach
to the heart of the issue. You are talking about India, we have had a 1 hour
conversation here, you haven't asked me 1 question about how we are going to
build this country, how we are going to take this country forward, you haven't
asked me one question on how we are going to empower our people, you haven't
asked me one question on what we are going to do for youngsters, you are not
interested in that.

Arnab: That wrong Mr. Gandhi, if I wanted to know that I would hear a Rahul
Gandhi speech, this is not a Rahul Gandhi speech this is a Rahul Gandhi
interview. Mr. Gandhi I see that you have this knack of trying to throw the
question back at me, I can only tell you Mr. Gandhi I am going to ask the
questions. My question is how do you handle this. The other view is that you are
a fragile person, you get affected by criticism. Subramanian Swamy has raised
questions on your degrees, he says why does he claim he has an M.Phil from
Cambridge; Cambridge has no record of his thesis, you can't get an Phil without
a thesis, he says yes he went to Harvard when Rajiv Gandhi was PM, someone gave
11 million dollars to Harvard medical school, donors quota, once you enter
Harvard said to him we don't think you belong here, so he dropped out. He has
questioned both your degrees, I want you today...

Rahul: Were you in Cambridge

Arnab: I was at Oxford

Rahul: But you spent some time at Cambridge?

Arnab: I was a visiting fellow at Cambridge for a while.

Rahul: So where were you at Cambridge?

Arnab: At Sydney Sussex college

Rahul: So I was at Trinity in Cambridge, I spent a year there, I did my M.Phil
there.

Arnab: I want your response to Subramanian Swamy, how do you deal with this?

Rahul: You want me to show you my degree, I can show you my degree

Arnab: Would you like to show him your degree?

Rahul: He has probably seen my degree, I have given a sworn affidavit saying I
that I have got these degrees, If I am lying on these affidavits let him take
the legal process and solve it , what more do you want me to do.

Arnab: You challenge him

Rahul: Why should I challenge him? Arnab: He's attacked you personally

Rahul: He's been attacking my family for 40 years. Why should I challenge him?

Arnab: Does it affect you Mr. Gandhi when you are attacked at a personal level
and how do you choose not to respond? How do you bury your head in the sand and
say this is not happening? It's happening to you. You are being criticised

Rahul: I respond by understanding why I'm being attacked. I'm being attacked
because I'm doing things that are dangerous to the system. I'm being attacked
because I'm asking questions that are dangerous to the system. And I'm not
asking superficial questions. I'm not asking questions over here (pointing at
the ceiling). I'm asking questions over there (pointing to the ground). And
everybody understands that this fellow here is not just a superficial chap who
talks. This fellow over here is thinking deeply and is thinking long term.
That's why I'm attacked. I understand that. And frankly, attack me all you want.
Beat me to death. It's not going to stop me. I'm going to keep doing it. And I'm
going to ask the questions that are relevant. And you know what, I have thousand
people in the Congress party, two thousand people in the party who are working
on this stuff. They're not letting go. And I'm proud of them, they're not
letting go. It doesn't matter. Keep throwing stones at us. That's the point. The
point is, people who are attacked in this system, the people who are actually
attacked, are the ones fighting the system. You understand that? They're not the
people who sit and ask, the superficial questions. They're the ones who're
actually saying, let's do something about this system. They're the ones who are
going deep into the system and understanding that this is the crux of it. And
the crux of it, Arnab I've told you. The crux of it is how we choose candidates.
The crux of it is how we make policies. That's the crux of it. The thing is, you
don't like discussing it. You like discussing stuff that really, doesn't go to
the core and I'm a serious politician. I'm not somebody who's here to get power,
or make money or something. I'm somebody who's here, who's seen what the system
does to people. I've seen, and I can give you example after example which is on
my mind. But I'm not going to fight the superficial battle. I just am not. It's
not interesting to me. I'm going to fight a battle. I'm going to fight a deep
battle. I'm going to take the youngsters of this country and line them up. And
I'm going to then take the system on. Don't forget that.

Arnab: You don't have a thick skin, Mr. Rahul Gandhi. Politicians need to have a
thick skin.

Rahul: If I don't have a thick skin right now, it'll get thick

Arnab: You say you're a very serious politician. I assure you Mr. Gandhi, I'm a
very serious journalist. Therefore when I interview Rahul Gandhi, his first
interview in 10 years, it's my responsibility to ask you specific questions. I'm
glad you're taking them. My next question to you, and I have only two left. Mr.
Gandhi, how much have you been affected by defeats and when we see, for example
the visuals of Priyanka holding you after the U.P election loss. That picture,
almost in a protective manner that Priyanka is holding you and you are walking
away. You tell me what's happening in your mind out there. Do you feel
overwhelmed by loss, by defeat, because you've had quite a few off late? How
have you dealt with it?

Rahul: It all depends on what you're trying to do. I told you that I'm here
because I want to help use the energy of this country. I want to make this
country powerful. I want to project the ideas of this country. To do that, I
think there are basically 3 things one needs to do. One, is changing the way we
do politics here. Getting away from the superficialities, getting away from the
small issues and moving deeper into the issues right. Questioning the system,
changing the system. Things like RTI, things like Lokpal, things like how we
choose our candidates. Things like bringing youngsters into politics. Second is
empowering the women of this country. Really bringing them into the system.
Really pushing them forward. And third is using the energy of the youth of this
country. Bringing in the type of jobs that they need. This stuff is not done in
5 minutes. This stuff is frankly not done in this type of discussions. This
stuff is done through concentrated thinking and long term work. It's frankly
difficult work, it's painful work. If we're thinking about that and thinking
that's what we want to do, defeat just makes you stronger, it makes you want to
do more. I don't go into an election thinking, if we lose it's the end of the
world. We lose some elections, we win some elections. The real thing is that
it's a heart thing. It's a soul thing. Why are you here? I asked you that
question, why am I sitting here? I'm sitting here because I feel with all my
heart that we need to change the system here and not enough people are actually
asking that question.

Arnab: Mr. Gandhi, my last question to you in the course of this interaction is
this. Your father was forced into politics by circumstances. In your case as
well, when you said power is poison and spoke about how your mother Sonia Gandhi
came and she cried. If I put that together with some of what you've said, it
might reinforce the image of a reluctant prince. It's not my phrase, I'm sure
you've heard this phrase used against you or to describe you a number of times.
Therefore Mr. Gandhi, the last question is this. Had you not been a Gandhi,
would you have been in politics at all?

Rahul: If you look at my spirit, regardless of what I do, if I'd been born in
India, regardless of what I do, I don't like unfairness. It just makes my blood
boil. I don't like it. And in whatever I did, if I saw unfairness, I would stand
up Against it. That's the heart of my politics.

Arnab: If you were not a Gandhi, would you be in politics? Some say this is a
circumstance thrust on you Mr. Gandhi. You've been thrust into this situation.
You're trying to justify to yourself that you need to do it. Heart of heart, are
you a politician? Had you not been a Gandhi, would you be in politics?

Rahul: Maybe you find me strange because... Arnab: No, I don't find you strange

Rahul: You sort of implied that, but maybe I look like an anomaly in the
environment that I'm in. Maybe that's what you're saying and frankly in a lot of
ways, I am an anomaly in the environment that I'm in. The power is poison
remark, and I tell this to my sister, I tell it to my mother and my mother tells
it to me. I don't get driven by the desire for power. I'm just not driven by it.
For me power is an instrument that can be used for certain things. But for me,
it's not interesting to own it, to capture it or to hold it. Maybe its because
of my family circumstances and what happened to my family. Power per se, the
quest for power, the thirst for power is not there is me. What is there in me,
is a desire, a strong desire to reduce the pain that people feel. To reduce the
pain that people feel as a result of the system that is predatory. As a result
of the system that need not be there. As a result of system that can change if
we just start to ask the deeper question. And we stop asking the superficial
questions. Again, and maybe the seventh time I want to repeat it to you. What
are those deeper questions? The deeper question is, why is power so concentrated
in this country? Why is it that the Chief Minister of a state has the access to
any decision in the entire state? Why is it that candidates are chosen in closed
rooms? Why is it that people do not have access to the candidates' decision? Why
is it that our policies are made behind closed doors by 5 or 6 people? Why is it
that the perspective of one minister is completely different from the one who is
following him? What that's telling me is that we're not exactly taking the voice
of the people into policy. We're not actually taking the voice of the people
into the political system. You said about the Aam Aadmi Party and you said, 'you
criticised them and you praised them'. I liked what I saw as far as the
representation, bringing in people, I thought that was an interesting concept.
We've done that kind of stuff in the Youth Congress. That was interesting to me.

Arnab: Isn't bringing in people when you disregard the legal process and sit on
a protest outside Rail Bhavan and then you also force your decision and your
minister is always right. You avoided my question on the Aam Aadmi Party and I'm
glad you've come to it. Tell me Mr. Rahul Gandhi, were you angry with Sushil
Kumar Shinde giving a face-saver to Arvind Kejriwal? It was reported. I didn't
mean to go back to it, you brought it back. The accusation is that you're still
doing deals with the Aam Aadmi Party?

Rahul: What I liked about what I saw in the Aam Aadmi Party was people coming
into their system. I liked that. But what's different between us & them is that
we have structure. We develop processes. That I didn't see much of.

Arnab: Were you upset with Mr. Sushil Kumar Shinde for giving them a way out
during the recent Dharna? Do you fell they should've been offered a face-saver?

Rahul: You're going back Arnab

Arnab: Yes, to specifics

Rahul: It's not specifics. It's frankly superficialities

Arnab: How is it superficial?

Rahul: It's completely superficial

Arnab: This is the most relevant question

Rahul: No it's not. Whether Mr. Shinde should've apologised, whether he
should've done this or done that is, it's a fact and it happened. But the real
core issues in this election are, 1)Are we going to head towards a democracy,
towards deepening our democracy and towards opening up the system or are we
going to head towards concentration of power? 2) Are we going to head towards
empowerment of women? Are we going to be a half strong nation? Be a half proud
nation? Or are we going to actually empower women? Those are the questions. And
you know, if you listen to the debate that's going on, about the elections,
that's not the debate. There's nothing in the debate about how we're going to
move forward on the RTI paradigm. How we're going to move forward on the
corruption paradigm. There's nothing in the debate about funding of political
parties. There's nothing in the debate about how we're going to choose political
candidates. There's nothing in the debate about how policies must be made. These
are the fundamental things. These are the things that actually make an impact.

Arnab: You're you're avoiding a debate. Will you have a debate with Narendra
Modi if he agrees to a debate on any of these issues? My question is direct. If
Narendra Modi says I'm willing to debate these issues...

Rahul: I'm debating these issues by building structures in the Congress party
that's going to transform it.

Arnab: Why shouldn't there be a debate between the key political party
candidates on all sides? Let them talk. Let them have a conversation

Rahul: You're more than welcome. You have to start that debate. As far as I'm
concerned, the debate is taking place.

Arnab: I'm ready to start the debate. Are you ready for it? Then I can go and
ask Mr. Narendra Modi if he's ready for it

Rahul: You start the debate. But the real issue is doing this stuff. The real
issue is doing this stuff in the party machine. The only people who are doing
that, is us. And frankly, we can stick for it. We've just said that 15
constituencies in this country in the Congress party are going to be chosen by
primaries. No one said a word about it.

Arnab: Of course, it's mentioned everywhere. It hasn't impressed too many
people.

Rahul: But the discussion hasn't gone there. So all I'm saying is, as youngsters
and as serious politicians, one has to ask the fundamental questions. The
fundamental question this election is, are we going to open up the system? Are
we going to close the system? What is going to be the role of women going
forward? How are we going to get jobs for youngsters in this country? You asked
me a whole bunch of questions. You didn't ask me once on how we're going to get
jobs for youngsters in this country. You didn't ask me once about what we're
going to do for the women for this country. And I'm going to tell you what I
think.

Arnab: But Mr. Rahul Gandhi, if I was to do that, I would listen to a Rahul
Gandhi speech as I said. This is an interview. I'm getting an opportunity to ask
you specific questions. You called my specific questions superficial. I, with
respect disagree. I feel my questions are specific and you need to answer the
specific questions as specifically as possible.

Rahul: You're more than welcome to ask these questions. But let's also move the
debate to a place where we're actually reaching towards fundamentals. What
should be the role of women in this country? How can we enhance their role? How
do we bring jobs to millions of people. For example, every single person who
comes to me from abroad, Japan, France, Germany, America and tell me 'Listen, we
need an alternative to Chinese manufacture'. We're very happy with what the
Chinese give us, but we need another port. There's global energy saying we want
to move manufacturing to India. The Congress party, the UPA Govt have built the
corridors, we've built the North-South, East-West corridor. We built 3 times the
roads the NDA built. Why are we not having a discussion on those topics?

Arnab: I asked you that question during the course of the interview. Did UPA
Govt let you down? Because Mr. Rahul Gandhi, when foreign investors want to
invest in India, they want a clean investing environment. They don't want crony
capitalism. They do not need scams. They do not need ministers who behave like
Govts exist on their rent. They do not need the A Rajas and the Aircel Maxis
scams. The climate Mr. Rahul Gandhi has become vitiated with corruption. And
therefore, the answer to that is and I really want you to address this. If you
had spoken out earlier, and lets bring this interview to a finality. If you had
spoken out on these issues earlier, perhaps today we would not be in a situation
where India is not the preferred investment destination. You get my point?

Rahul: Actually, the RTI right, has basically changed the game in India. What it
has done, is that it has basically opened up the structures. And what used to be
hidden, can no longer be hidden. That's the bottom line. The bottom line is
large number of corruption issues that were hidden, that nobody would have found
out about, came out because of the RTI. We did that. Now please go to our
Opposition states, please go to their states and ask them if they have RTI
Commissioners. The issue here is very simple. The issue is do you want an open
system? Do you want a system where these things are out in the open? Or do you
want a closed system where these things are hidden?

Arnab: I think we should have a debate Mr. Modi

Rahul: The debate is taking place right now

Arnab: The debate has to take place between individuals. My final question, Mr.
Gandhi. Will you be open to a debate between key candidates or representatives
of the major parties? Will you participate in such a debate if there were to be
one?

Rahul: There is a national debate taking place right now. The national debate
taking place right now is the following. There is the Congress Party that
believes in openness, that believes in RTI, that believes in Panchayati Raj,
that believes in giving people power. And there is our Opposition that believes
in concentrated power. That's the debate that's taking place. That's what the
election is all about. We fundamentally believe and the Congress Party has
always believed that this country has to be ruled by its people.

Arnab: Can you take back this election or have you lost this election before its
begun? Most of the surveys are saying Congress party will be reduced to its
lowest ever tally. What would you say to that, Mr. Rahul Gandhi?

Rahul: This country has always been run & successfully when large numbers of
people were involved in the decision making. Historically, when you look at when
this country has done well, it has done well when we have involved people.

Arnab: You know what Modi says to that, he says you gave them 60 years. He says
give me 60 months. He said that in UP at Gorakhpur when he spoke recently. I
want you to respond to that.

Rahul: My response to that is that in the last 10 years, we gave the country the
fastest economic growth its ever had. My response is that, we did more for
opening up the system than any Govt before us. My response is that we have
completely changed the paradigm with our rights based development model. We have
given MGNREGA which has transformed the rural economy. We are talking about
AADHAR which is going to give money directly to the people. To just brush aside
the idea that Congress party has been in power for 60 years, we are growing at
the rate at which we are growing because of the Congress party.

Arnab: Are you battle ready?

Rahul: Battle ready, of course. We're going to win.

Arnab: Mr. Rahul Gandhi, thank you very much. It's been a pleasure talking to
you.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 16, 2013 Monday
                                 Delhi Edition

Recent SC verdicts may help stem riots

BYLINE: Dhananjay Mahapatra

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 826 words



HIGHLIGHT: Recommendations Of Numerous Panels On Violence Remain Unimplemented


The riots that wounded the country at its birth continue to recur every now and
then.Numerous communal conflagrations saw as many judicial or administrative
commissions going into its genesis.Their findings and recommendations remain
unimplemented.The victims of the vicious 1984 anti-Sikh riots are still awaiting
justice - both from the government and the judiciary.Trial in the post-Godhra
communal pogrom of 2002 has not yet reached its final stages.Except for one
politician in Maya Kodnani,many are yet to feel the rigour of rule of law
despite the Supreme Court clearly observing,"The modern day 'Neros' were looking
elsewhere when Best Bakery and innocent children and women were burning and were
probably deliberating how the perpetrators of the crime can be saved or
protected.[Zahira Habubulla H Sheikh vs Gujarat 2004 (4) SCC 158]." And now
Muzaffarnagar became the theatre for the deadly dance of riots even though UP is
ruled by a political family which champions the cause of minorities and never
wastes an opportunity to wear skull caps to assure them of protection.After
Independence,the worst communal riots took place in Gujarat in 1969 when
Congress leader Hiten K Desai was CM.The report of the Justice Jagmohan Reddy
Commission indicted the partisan role of police saying Hindu temples near police
stations remained intact but not the mosques.Police siding with rioters is a
common thread in every inquiry report - the Justice D P Madon Commission on the
Bhiwandi,Jalgaon and Madad riots of 1970,the Justice Josepth Vithyathil
Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971,the Justice Ranganath Misra
Commission on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi,the Justice Srikrishna report on
Mumbai riots of 1992-1993 and the report of the National Human Rights Commission
on the 2002 Gujarat riots.For decades,the police have been consistently damned
for their partisan role during riots.During these decades,commission after
commission appointed by the Union government repeatedly recommended urgent need
for reforms in police establishment to make it a professional force rather than
the alter ego of politicians in power.No state has expressed readiness to usher
in the reforms,which the Supreme Court had directed more than six years
ago.Instead,they are now telling the court that it would be unconstitutional for
the court to direct them to implement police reforms.When police becomes the
tool in the hands of politicians,many of whom have criminal track records or are
accused of amassing huge disproportionate wealth,what does one do?

The Supreme Court in SC Advocates on Record Association case [1993 (4) SCC 411]
had said,"India needs today nothing more than a set of honest men who will have
the interest of the country before them.There is a fissiparous tendency arising
out of various elements in our life.We have communal differences,caste
differences,language differences,provincial differences and so forth.It requires
men of strong character,men of vision,men who will not sacrifice the interests
of the country at large for the sake of smaller groups and areas and who will
rise over the prejudices which are born of these differences." The year when the
SC was looking for a 'set of honest men',the Vohra committee gave its report on
politician-police-bureaucrat-mafia nexus to the government.Just two paragraphs
of it will open the eyes of people about some of the men we elect to govern us:
"There has been a rapid spread and growth of criminal gangs,armed senas,drug
mafias,smuggling gangs,drug peddlers and economic lobbies in the country which
have,over the years,developed an extensive network of contacts with the
bureaucrats /government functionaries at the local levels,politicians,media
persons and strategically located individuals in the non-state sector.Some of
these syndicates also have international linkages,including foreign intelligence
agencies."In certain states like Bihar,Haryana and UP,these gangs enjoy the
patronage of local level politicians,cutting across party lines and the
protection of governmental functionaries.Some political leaders become the
leaders of these gangs,armed senas and over the years get themselves elected to
local bodies,state assemblies and the national Parliament.Resultantly,such
elements have acquired considerable political clout seriously jeopardizing the
smooth functioning of the administration and the safety of life and property of
the common man causing a sense of despair and alienation among the people."
Given the despairing scenario,the Supreme Court's three recent judgments - one
disqualifying MPs and MLAs on their conviction in a serious crime,second
debarring arrested persons from contesting elections and the third,prohibiting
those who don't make full and honest disclosure of their assets and educational
and criminal antecedents from contesting elections - are welcome steps to
instill hope in people to see a 'set of honest men' ruling the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             July 25, 2015 Saturday

1984 riot victims knock on Das door

BYLINE: Vijay Deo Jha

LENGTH: 530  words


Ranchi, July 25: Chief minister Raghubar Das today got a taste of how the
government machinery works, or rather does not work, when he came to know that a
direction he had issued as Jharkhand's finance minister in 2006 to ensure
compensation to 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims was never complied with by the
Palamau district administration.

Even after 31 years of the riots that left a permanent scar on the psyche of the
Sikh community, as many as 87 victimised families of Palamau are still running
from pillar to post to get compensation for loss of their properties.

A delegation from the Sikh community, comprising former vice-president of
Jharkhand State Minorities Commission Gurvinder Singh Sethi, member of Palamau
district's riots victim committee Indrajeet Singh Dimple, president of Palamau
Gurdwara Committee Kuldeep Singh and others, apprised this to Das during a janta
durbar at the chief minister's residence on Kanke Road, Ranchi, today.

They requested Das to direct the district administration to release the funds.

In the riots that broke after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi, properties of 817 families from 11 districts, now part of Jharkhand,
were damaged. The central government in 2006 had released a total of Rs
11,69,96,000, out of which Rs 1.64 crore was earmarked for riot victims of
Palamau.

But the district administration did not pay compensation despite then governor
K. Sankaranarayanan issuing a specific order in 2009 to the district
administration to disburse the amount among the victims.

"There are around thousand riot victims from Palamau district, who were never
given compensation. Even after 31 years, we are fighting for justice. The
Palamau district administration has cited errors in assessment of damages as
well as entries to deprive us of compensation. The reality is that the amount
has been deposited in bank and the administration is enjoying the interest,"
Gurvinder Singh Sethi said.

Das assured the delegation of immediate action.

"Justice will be done to the riot victims. There is no reason to delay payments.
I will make enquiries from the district administration," Das told the delegates.

But Indrajeet Singh Dimple claimed that the administration was deliberately
creating problems as most of the riot victims refused to pay bribe to officials.

Palamau once had a huge population of Sikhs, mostly engaged in business
activities. During the riots, as many as 200 families were affected. At present,
around a hundred families stay in the district, mostly in Daltonganj, as most
have migrated to Punjab and Delhi.

Just after the riots, the then Bihar government had released some funds to be
distributed among the victims of Palamau for renovation of their damaged houses.

In two subsequent surveys held in the district, 87 families were identified as
victims. The central government announced Rs 15,53,383 as compensation to be
distributed among them based on the assessment of damages of property
(commercial installations) during riots. But it was never paid.

Later, the Nanavati Commission recommended 10 times higher compensation to riot
victims all across the country, which catapulted the amount to Rs 1.64 crore.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday

A day of hit-and-run battles in Downtown Beirut

BYLINE: Nazih Osseiran

LENGTH: 1370 words


Downtown Beirut was the scene of hit-and-run battles between peaceful
demonstrators and riot police Wednesday.

BEIRUT: Downtown Beirut was the scene of hit-and-run battles between peaceful
demonstrators and riot police Wednesday. Protesters assembled in front of
An-Nahar newspaper's headquarters in Martyrs' Square, facing off with riot
police at 9 a.m. The demonstration, called by the "You Stink" activist group,
was held to coincide with and protest against the National Dialogue session in
nearby Parliament, which brought together representatives of major parliamentary
blocs.

"Memorize their faces. See that man wearing red? Him and that girl in jeans
shorts, her as well," an officer of the riot police ordered his unit.

Demonstrators claimed that riot police filmed and memorized the faces of certain
organizers and activists, and were targeting them specifically in order to break
the movement's momentum.

"My name is Hussein Nasser al-dine, I live in Bir al-Abed, and I am here
protesting against [Speaker] Nabih Berri," one of the protesters bellowed at
riot police, while others raised their IDs cards in defiance.

"We are filming because the media is only giving the perspective of the
protesters and not ours," one of the security officers responded.

Suddenly riot police attacked the protesters and drove them back. Women were
beaten and the elderly trampled over. Even the riot police themselves were not
spared the anguish of the day.

One officer found the offensive too atrocious and retreated, screaming, "I
can't! I can't!" Rather than beat protesters he fell back behind the iron
barrier erected by security forces to keep the demonstrators at bay. He was soon
shoved back into the fray by his colleagues as they screamed, "Do your job! This
is what you are paid for!"

After the scuffle died down, protesters returned to the barricades and attempted
to reason with officers. Some protesters gathered around the commanding officer
and explained that it is the citizenry's right to assemble.

Riot police squirmed in discomfort as they were lectured by battered citizens,
who implored them to "join us, because you are our brothers and suffer as we
do."

"You don't understand what rights mean, come talk to me in 15 years when you
know better," the commanding officer patronized the assembled demonstrators.

Suddenly Waref Sleiman, the first citizen to initiate the ongoing hunger strike
earlier this month to pressure Environment Minister Mohammad Machnouk to resign,
leapt over the iron barriers into the midst of the police. He was savagely
beaten with rods and kicked before being carried away.

"Just show me Waref and I will leave! I will end my hunger strike and go home!"
Hussein, a fellow striker, screamed before passing out. Red Cross workers rushed
to the scene and evacuated him amid the wails and cries of onlookers.

Protesters then returned to the iron barricade and continued lecturing the
police on citizens' rights.

"He is the one who jumped, see we have been peaceful all day and only reacted
when rocks and water bottles were thrown at us," another commanding officer told
the crowd.

The officer had barely finished uttering his words before riot police,
unprovoked, broke through the barriers again and violently drove protesters
back.

"You will not beat us on the head!" actor Michel Abu Sleiman screamed at riot
police after they retreated behind the iron barricade. "We will film every
single one who does that. ... Do not test us."

Abu Sleiman and others gathered in front of the barricade and implored the crowd
to calm down as "they [riot police] are just slaves who are doing their master's
bidding." Some booed the speech, but others applauded.

"They are removing our tents!" a protester suddenly screamed. Substantial
numbers of riot police assembled across the road from the nearby the Environment
Ministry and forcibly removed the makeshift barricades erected by hunger
strikers. Activists Tuesday had sealed off the entrances to the Azarieh Building
that houses the ministry.

Demonstrators rushed to confront the riot police and a brawl ensued. Riot police
beat protesters back to the Fouad Chehab Bridge in an attempt to disperse them.
But the crowd would not budge, and held their ground under the bridge.

Other demonstrators took advantage of the traffic and closed the road on
Martyrs' Square using plastic chairs. Some began breaking huge slabs of concrete
in order to fashion stones to throw against a seemingly imminent attack from
police.

However, the riot police dispersed and fell back. Instead, what appeared to be
members of the Internal Security Forces Information Branch in plain clothes ran
into the crowd and began beating and arresting demonstrators and journalists at
random. The intelligence officers were not satisfied with merely arresting
demonstrators. They forced them to the ground, administering savage beatings.
Only then would they drag their victims toward unmarked cars.

"I was dragged into an ambulance and they beat me while I was inside," Mohammad
Awaz said. Awaz was holding a rock, and on the verge of throwing it on a car
belonging to intelligence officers who had just arrested his friend. He was then
shoved aside by a riot police officer, who pulled a gun on him and ordered him
to release the rock.

After Awaz complied, he was attacked by several officers who dragged him into an
ambulance and beat him. Fellow demonstrators rushed to his aid and wrestled with
riot police, attempting to free Awaz from their grasp. They were ultimately
successful and able to drive the plainclothes officers back. "I don't even know
them and they just saved my life," he said.

Intelligence servicemen returned on motorcycles, which they aimed at the
gathered protesters, attempting to run them over.

"I don't even know where I am ... this is not Lebanon," a demonstrator said as
he fled from the attacking motorcycles.

By the afternoon, the clamor had died down as protesters recovered in the
parking lot facing the Environment Ministry.

Suddenly a group of men attacked the protesters, shrieking, "How dare you insult
[Speaker of Parliament Nabih] Berri!" The men identified themselves as Berri
supporters as they destroyed the protester's tents. They were armed with huge
slabs of concrete, and would beat protesters to the ground before smashing the
slabs over them.

The police, despite their overwhelming numbers and riot gear, stood idly by and
did nothing to protect the demonstrators.

Women flocked to the Azarieh building wailing and begging police to "do your job
and protect your brothers and sisters."

"No one moves, remain where you are," the commanding officer ordered. But the
order was ignored, and riot police forced their way through the crowds to attack
the assailants. Officers forced the attackers back before returning to their
stations amid applause and cheers from the crowd.

"What happened now is the continuation of the political class' militia, that has
been assaulting us since morning," Imad Bazzi, an organizer with You Stink, told
The Daily Star.

However, the press office of Berri's Amal Movement released a statement denying
any relationship with the attackers, and called for "calm."

On its twitter account ISF posted photos of some of its members with bandaged
arms and legs, saying they were beaten by protesters.

It said that freedom of expression should remain peaceful and not involve
attacks on people and public and private property.

The ISF also said its members were protecting the tents of protesters.

By nightfall, the protester's numbers had multiplied, as citizens made their way
to Riad al-Solh Square, heeding calls made by You Stink earlier in the the day.

Ali Ismail made his way to the protest with his wife and children in tow. "I am
not scared to join demonstrations - I am scared what will happen if I don't," he
said. "I would wear it as a badge of honor if the security forces were to arrest
me and my family this evening."

The demonstrators called for the release of all activists arrested by the police
during the day.

Around 40 demonstrators who were apprehended were released shortly after.

The Military Tribunal also approved the release of nine demonstrators out of 16
captured during the Aug. 29 protest organized by You Stink.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday

Why memories of Gujarat 2002 stay

LENGTH: 1160 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 3 -- Riots under BJP rule are the culmination of the Sangh
Parivar's ideological impulse to keep communal tensions alive while for Congress
they are tactical instruments

Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Rajnath Singh's decision to accord a
prominent role to Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi is presumably based on
the belief that the diverse Indian electorate would forgive him for the communal
mayhem of 2002, as it often has the Congress for the riots under its rule. This
can be presumed from the comments Mr. Singh made at a function in Delhi in early
February. In a recriminatory tone, he had then asked, "Our opposition parties
allege that BJP is the party which creates enmity between Hindus and Muslims.
Did riots not take place during Congress rule?"

Not just the votaries and apologists of the BJP but even ideologically neutral
individuals often echo the sentiments Mr. Singh expressed. From Jabalpur (Madhya
Pradesh) in 1961 to Bharatpur (Rajasthan) in 2012, the Congress has palpably
failed to control communal hotheads from running amok periodically. Yet the
party hasn't been tagged communal, and still garners a substantial chunk of the
minority as well as secular votes. What explains the dichotomy in the public
response to the riots under the BJP rule as compared to those under the Congress
governments?

Elemental

For one, the phenomenon of communal riot is an elemental aspect of the Sangh
Parivar's ideology, an extreme manifestation of its politics which is predicated
on articulating and redressing the grievances of Hindus, real or imagined, the
provenance of which lies either in the medieval past or in post-Independence
public policies the saffron brigade perceives as unjustifiably favouring the
minorities.

This worldview pits the Hindus against the minorities, particularly the Muslims,
until such time the inexhaustible list of grievances is addressed. The politics
emanating from this worldview consequently spawns an ambience of tension among
communities, reduced or heightened depending on the exigencies of circumstances
but never allowed to dissipate. In other words, the inter-community tension,
signifying the abnormal in politics, has no possibility of closure in the
immediate future. It is designed to become our daily state of existence.

The tension is stoked at pan-India, State and district levels. The Ram
Janmabhoomi movement sought to meld the Hindus, with all their class, caste,
linguistic and regional divides, into a monolith, through a demand asking
Muslims to voluntarily relinquish their custody of the Babri Masjid. Of similar
nature are the demands for relocating mosques abutting the Krishna and Shiv
temples in Mathura and Varanasi. These symbols of pan-India Hindu mobilisation
are augmented through the manufacturing of disputes over places of worship of
local significance. Into this category fall the protracted disputes over the
Bhagyalakshmi temple at the base of the Charminar in Hyderabad, the Baba
Budangiri-Guru Dattatreya shrine in Karnataka, and the Bhojshala complex in
Dhar, Madhya Pradesh.

In addition, there are hundreds of places of worship and graveyards in mofussil
towns whose ownerships are contended between Hindus and Muslims. No doubt, some
of these disputes date back decades but, over the years, myriad groups
comprising the Sangh Parivar have taken over the leadership of these 'little
battles of liberation'. For variety, Christian priests are attacked and churches
vandalised on the charges of converting Hindus to Christianity.

In this culture of inter-community tension, alternatively fanned and allowed to
simmer, the riot is the logical culmination of an insidious process. It is akin
to a person experiencing a nervous breakdown after suffering acute mental agony
for months; it is similar to living life on the edge, uncertain though you are
about the precise moment of the inevitable fall off the precipice. Indeed,
communal tension in perpetuity is less traumatic only in degrees to an outbreak
of a riot.

The sheer salience of tension-riot in the politics of BJP is precisely why a
localised inter-community conflict under its rule acquires a resonance
countrywide. It is perceived as illustrative of the fate awaiting the minorities
in an India in which the BJP exercises untrammeled power. The 2002 riot of
Gujarat was horrifying not only because of its barbarity but also because it was
viewed to have been ideologically driven and, therefore, bound to be replicated
elsewhere.

By contrast, the riots under the Congress rule, even the ones its activists
spearhead, are instrumental rather than ideological. Barring the anti-Sikh
pogrom of 1984, the riots under the Congress rarely spill beyond a parliamentary
constituency or two. The motive behind such mayhem is usually a local
Congressman wanting to win an election from a constituency; a riot or communal
tension rarely becomes a tool for political mobilisation countrywide, again, the
1984 riots being the exception. Though cynical, the breakdown in inter-community
relationship is almost always followed by attempts to restore the earlier social
harmony.

Atonement

No doubt, the Congress was justifiably implicated in the 1984 riots. It
symbolically atoned for its guilt by appointing Manmohan Singh as Prime
Minister, and he, on August 12, 2005, apologised not only to the Sikh community
in Parliament, but also to the entire nation "because what took place in 1984 is
the negation of the concept of nationhood in our Constitution".

More significantly, the Congress is forgiven because the riots under it are
often (not always, though) the handiwork of organisations owing allegiance or
belonging to the Sangh Parivar. It's a conclusion several commissions of inquiry
appointed to probe riots have reached. There are just too many to be quoted. But
sample what the Joseph Vithayathil Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971
said. It traced the origin of communal tension in the town to the RSS's decision
to establish its units there. In an incident the rioters accosted one Muhammad
and offered him the following choice, "If you want to save your life you should
go round the house three times repeating the words, 'Rama, Rama'." The
commission noted, "Muhammad did that. But you cannot expect the 70 million
Muslims of India to do that as a condition for maintaining communal harmony in
the country".

More than 40 years after Tellicherry, tension-riot remains the Sangh Parivar's
defining strategy of achieving its ideological goal of turning India Hindu. This
is why we remember the riots under the BJP and not those under the Congress,
which too has been responsible for the spilling of blood and untold misery.

(Ajaz Ashraf is a Delhi-based journalist. E-mail: ashrafajaz3@gmail.com)
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

Conflict patterns, violent trends

LENGTH: 846  words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Aug. 4 -- Nepalis are aware that violent ethnic conflicts have increased
in the last decade. However, not much is known in terms of patterns and trends
of the conflicts. Such knowledge will be useful in better understanding the
phenomena and formulating more informed approaches and policies to manage them.
This article will point out some known, others less known and unknown patterns
and trends.

Despite the projection of Nepal as a peaceful and ethnically harmonious society,
ethnic violence was never new. The repression of minority groups and ethnic
activists occurred throughout Nepal's history since its formation. The Limbu and
Tamang rebellions and their repression in the last decades of the eighteenth
century, and the Kirati and Tamang rebellions in the 1950s, are some examples
from the recent and distant past.

However, the level, scale and nature of violence are different today. As table 1
points out, ethnic violence increased significantly in the last decade. While
the country witnessed around six violent conflicts between ethnic groups
(violent protests, attacks and riots) during the four decades from 1951 to 1990
(table 1), the last two decades (1990-2010) witnessed ten violent ethnic riots
(excluding violent activities of armed groups).

The violent conflicts can be divided broadly into two categories: the first
includes riots and attacks, often instigated and launched by extremist
organisations of the dominant group, against minority religious groups and
communities, but occasionally launched by marginalised groups against the
dominant group as well. Groups like Madhesis, Muslims and Christians have been
victims of riots, bombings, murders and violent attacks. The Muslims have a long
history of being attacked, whereas the Christians have been attacked after
transition began in 2006. The second type of violent activity is a new
phenomenon; for the first time in Nepal's history, an ethnic armed group, the
Kirat Workers Party, appeared in 1997 and such groups have proliferated since
the turn of the century.

Compared to before, riots have spread after the turn of the century to different
parts of the country. The Hindu-Muslim riots during 1958-59 and 1971 were
confined to central Tarai districts and its vicinity (Mahottari, Bara and
Rauthahat). All five violent riots in 1990s were confined to Nepalganj, where a
considerable Muslim population lives. After the turn of the century, riots have
spread to Kathmandu and eastern, central and western districts in the Tarai. The
hill community was involved in riots against the Madhesis in 2000 (Rhitik Roshan
incident) and Muslims in 2004 in Kathmandu (riots after the killings of Nepalis
in Iraq).

Violent ethnic protests, riots and attacks have occurred more often during open,
democratic years. Of the 16 cases listed in Table 1, violent riots were recorded
only twice during the three and half decade long autocratic years (1960-1990 and
2002-2006). Violent ethnic conflicts increased after the restoration of
democracy in 1990 and during the transition since 2006. Nine violent conflicts/
riots occurred during the democratic years since 1990 (five during the 1990s and
four during the first decade of the twenty-first century). While democracy can
be a peaceful mechanism for managing conflicts, it can also provide space for
extremists to incite and engage in violent activities, especially during
transition and the early years when the system has not taken roots.

The Tarai/Madhes has been affected more by violent conflicts. According to a
news report that cited a Home Ministry source, 16 and 10 active armed groups
respectively were operating in the Tarai and eastern hilly regions in 2011. Data
on killings by ethnic organiasations, collected by INSEC, show that the Madhesi
organisations are involved the most killings, with a high of 108 in 2007, 75 in
2008, 22 in 2009 and 29 in 2010.

The extremist Hindu organisations rank second in the killings. They have killed
more people than organisations of indigenous nationalities: seven by Hindu
organisations and four by indigenous organisations between 2005 and 2010. The
killings by ethnic organisations have declined after reaching a peak of 109 in
2007, but have remained around 25-30 per annum for 2009 and 2010. Violent riots
since 1990 have mostly occurred in urban and populous areas while activities of
the armed rebels were mostly limited to rural areas, both in the hills and the
Tarai.

The rebellions of indigenous nationalities and Madhesis have occurred due to the
groups' perception of inequality and injustice towards them. On the other hand,
dominant groups have engaged in violent riots and killings due to their sense of
loss of their privileges and rights. The first type of violent conflict can be
addressed by accommodation while the later type of violence can be curbed
through improvement in law and order. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Long before hockey riots, Grey Cup fans ravaged downtown Vancouver

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 527  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Decades before hockey hooligans ravaged downtown Vancouver in a fit of Stanley
Cup rage, football fans rampaged through the city in wild riots that broke out
during the sport's Canadian championships.

Grey Cup festivities erupted into violent mobs twice during the 1960s, with
revellers pelting police officers with bottles, uprooting street signs and
smashing windows as they tore through the city's core.

Both the 1963 and 1966 riots led to hundreds of arrests, mostly for public
drunkenness and assault, said Michael Barnholden, the author of Reading the Riot
Act: A Brief History of Riots in Vancouver.

"The Grey Cup riot of 1963 was the largest riot in Vancouver history up to that
point, the 1966 riot not far behind," he said in an interview Saturday.

While authorities largely brushed off the first outburst as "part of the
celebrations," the second round shook them enough that some suggested the city
stop hosting the championship, Barnholden said.

The proposal clearly didn't stick -the Canadian Football League's marquee event
has returned to Vancouver several times over since then, and hordes of football
fans flocked to the city for the 99th edition.

Vancouver police came under fire this spring for their handling of the Stanley
Cup finals, which triggered widespread destruction and left the city's downtown
a mess of broken glass and burnt-out cars.

Several reviews of police operations were ordered following the June 15 riot, in
part to determine whether lessons from a similar riot in 1994 were put into
practice.

Vancouver city officials on Saturday said there were more restrictions on where
alcohol would be served and security staff would be doing liquor inspections of
various sites, including the family fun zone outside BC Place.

Police monitoring Grey Cup festivities in the 1960s didn't seem to learn from
their mistakes, Barnholden said.

In 1963, which saw the B.C. Lions face off against the Hamilton Tiger Cats, "the
real action started Saturday after the game," while fans caroused in downtown
bars, he said.

Someone threw a bottle, smacking a woman in the head. The incident caught the
attention of police officers on patrol, but their efforts to arrest the culprit
only riled up the crowd, he said.

Soon people hurtled bottles, rocks, eggs and tomatoes at the officers, who
called in reinforcements, and the area near Granville and Georgia streets turned
into a "battlefront," he said.

Between 3 p.m. Friday and noon Sunday, 319 people were arrested, including 249
charged with public drunkenness, he said.

Most were between the ages of 18 and 24, he said, at a time when the legal
drinking age was 21.

"Police, of course, promised to be better prepared next time," but maintained
they had never lost control of the situation, he said.

When the Grey Cup returned three years later, 200 people were arrested before
the game even started.

The Grey Cup parade, the traditional kickoff to the festivities, took place on a
Friday night and trouble began almost immediately after it wrapped up,
Barnholden said.

Vandals toppled street signs, tore down flags and decorations and shattered
windows, leaving the streets "ankle-deep in broken glass," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Canadian Press; Dancers perform during the  Grey Cup parade in
Vancouver on Saturday. For full coverage of the  99th Grey Cup between the B.C.
Lions and the Winnipeg Blue Bombers,  see Sports 11.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

THE WORLD WATCHES VANCOUVER

BYLINE: Josh O'Kane

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; RIOTS IN VANCOUVER; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 482 words


Vancouver's image as an urban paradise, gained during the Olympics, was
shattered on an international scale when rioters tore the city's downtown to
shreds.

Canadians who had earlier piled on the Canucks bandwagon were distancing
themselves on social networks and in the media from the thousands who packed the
city's downtown core for Game 7 who torched, looted and cheered on public
vandalism in light of the Canucks' loss.

But what happened didn't just shock people at home. International media on
Thursday shone their light away from the Stanley Cup game and onto the crowds.

Sports Illustrated ran it as their top story with enormous art and a vaguely
apologetic lead: "I feel bad for the 99 percent of Vancouver residents who
didn't riot," Michael Rosenberg wrote. Passionate sports fans are going to cause
riots, he continued, but no matter the city, it's going to tarnish its
reputation - "all of North America now sees Vancouver as a city of chokers and
jerks."

The Christian Science Monitor wrote that "Vancouver riots have Canadians
blushing." CBS ran a headline quote calling Vancouver "embarrassed." The front
page of Australia's Sydney Morning Herald ran a now-infamous photo of a couple
kissing in the riots, noting immediately that "a massive fight raged around
them."

The New York Times called it "one of the worst episodes of rioting Canada has
seen in decades" - this less than a year after Toronto's G20 summit. Times
reporters wrote a lengthy piece on the destruction that made its website's top
stories of the day, and pointed out that Wednesday night's riots "far
outstripped" the violence after the Canucks' 1994 Cup final loss.

Len Berman at The Huffington Post wrote, "...it's a Stanley Cup tradition. The
two teams shake hands when it ends, and then the fans show their sportsmanship
by rioting."

On the main sports site of the BBC online, the only hockey-related story was on
Vancouver's riots. "Riot police in Vancouver used tear gas to quell violence
that broke out after the Vancouver Canucks lost the final game of the Stanley
Cup," the BBC wrote.

International news websites also showcased photo slideshows and video montages
of the destruction - Der Spiegel, Le Monde, al-Jazeera and others.

"Vancouver riots" was among the top "in the news" headlines on The Washington
Post - with no front headlines about the game itself - and in the U.K., The
Guardian featured a scathing attack on the riots from famed Vancouver musician
Matthew Good that was at one point the site's most-viewed story. Both news
websites ran headlines saying the riots had "shamed" the city.

Mr. Good's column, co-opted from his much-read and highly political blog, called
the riots an "utter embarrassment" that "disgraced" Vancouver and will for years
to come. "If the Olympics succeeded in charming the pants off the world, that
warm, fuzzy feeling has now been decimated."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

No 'rush to justice' in charging riot suspects

BYLINE: WENDY STUECK

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; CRIME; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department has identified hundreds of people who looted
stores and torched cars during the riot that swept the city's downtown on June
15, the final night of the Stanley Cup playoffs.

But it will take time for charges to be laid against those involved, in part
because police want to ensure rioters aren't prematurely charged with a minor
offence and then later found to have been involved in more serious crimes.

"We will be charging hundreds of people," Vancouver police chief Jim Chu told
reporters after the public portion of a police board meeting on Wednesday.

"But if we rush to justice that could mean incomplete cases in terms of the
complete involvement of that individual being presented to the courts. We don't
want that - we want the full picture presented to the judges so that the
appropriate sentences are meted out."

To date, 37 people - 30 men and seven women - have turned themselves in, with
charges pending further investigation, the VPD said in an update.

With the help of thousands of photos and videos sent to police by members of the
public, riot investigators have so far identified 202 incidents, with each
involving from one to 300 suspects.

Most of the people who have turned themselves in to date do not have criminal
records, Chief Chu said.

Some of the crimes being investigated are participating in a riot, assault,
break and enter, weapons possession and arson.

During the board meeting, board members - including Mayor Gregor Robertson -
expressed their support for Chief Chu and the officers who were on duty the
night of the riot, saying police were able to shut it down over three hours and
showed restraint in tough conditions.

In the days and weeks following the riot, both Mr. Robertson and Chief Chu came
under fire over their role in planning for crowds of excited sports fans
streaming in to the downtown core and how police responded to early signs of
trouble. An estimated 150,000 people were in the downtown core on the night of
the riot, many of them packed into city-approved, public-viewing sites.

Many critics said there were too few police on duty the night of the riot. Mr.
Robertson this week said in hindsight that both he and Chief Chu agree more
officers were needed, but said the figure would not be released unless the
authors of an independent review decide to do so.

That review, headed by former Nova Scotia deputy attorney general Doug Keefe and
John Furlong, former VANOC co-chair, is expected to file its report by Aug. 31.

The riot resulted in millions of dollars worth of damage to downtown businesses
and dozens of people have filed workers' compensation claims for physical and
psychological injuries related to the riot.

Chief Chu said on Wednesday he had already met with the external review team and
has another meeting scheduled with crowd-control experts from the Ottawa police
force that are part of the review. Mr. Robertson said he had not yet met with
the review team.

As he has on previous occasions since the riot, Mr. Robertson said the city
would continue to support large public gatherings, including the three-night
fireworks event known as the Celebration of Light that kicks off July 30.

"I'm confident in the chief and the VPD and the rest of the region supporting
[us] that we're going to have a safe event," Mr. Robertson said.

In an appearance before the police board, NPA councillor and mayoral candidate
Suzanne Anton said the riot resulted in an "international black eye" for the
city and made several suggestions, including a regional police unit focused on
security planning for large special events.

To date, there has been one complaint filed with the B.C. Office of the Police
Complaint Commissioner relating to police conduct during the riot, a tally that
Chief Chu said reflects the training and restraint exercised by officers.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Chaos attracts international attention, and leaves city with black eye

BYLINE: Medha, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 379  words


Vancouver's international reputation has been tarnished. Media around the world
carried reports of the riots that erupted after the Canucks' Stanley Cup loss
Wednesday night and most of them were a scathing indictment of the city. The
Atlantic, based in Washington D.C., wrote: "In Syria they riot for freedom. In
Pakistan they riot against drone strikes. In China they riot about many things,
most recently in the Guangdong province for worker's rights. But in Canada,
which is officially ranked as one of the wealthiest and most peaceful nations in
the world, they riot over, yes, hockey."

"Angry drunken fans running wild" was top news at USA Today, while Trouble in
Vancouver's Streets After Defeat was a headline on The New York Times' website.
USA Today's website sounded a further warning with, "Vancouver hockey riots
highlight need for traveller awareness."

The UK's The Guardian also highlighted the violent mood in the city after the
game. In addition, the newspaper's website carried an opinion piece by B.C.
musician Matthew Good, who said, "The pointless riots that followed the Canucks'
defeat make a mockery of Vancouver's claims to be a world class city."

One headline on the L.A. Times sports blog read, Vancouver riots show darker
side of feel-good host city of 2010 Winter Olympics, while Time magazine's
website was even more graphic with Vancouver Riots: Hockey Fans Stick It to
Their Own City.

Rick Antonson, CEO of Tourism Vancouver, agreed that the city's reputation had
been compromised by the events of Wednesday night and that the afterglow of the
Olympics has been dulled.

"It is deplorable that those who did this, did it wearing Canuck T-shirts, when
they are just not representative of hockey fans or the people of Vancouver,"
Antonson said. "But these are the images that the world got to see and these are
the images that they will believe in."

His view is that this will have a definite effect on tourism in the short-term
and hard work will be needed to repair the damage.

B.C. Minister of Tourism Pat Bell felt that though the rioting was unfortunate,
it was isolated.

He hopes that international tourists will understand and that in the long-term,
the post-Olympics reputation of a peaceful, friendly Vancouver will prevail.

medha@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Bosch,  PNG; Vancouver's riots following Game 7 of the Stanley
Cup Final were called 'pointless' in the British press.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Why relief only for 1984 riot victims and not for 2002 ones, asks Abu Azmi

BYLINE: Kanchan Srivastava

LENGTH: 420  words


Launching a scathing attack on the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the
centre, state unit chief of Samajwadi Party, Abu Azmi, on Monday, said the
saffron government was discriminating against Muslims in the country by
announcing compensation only to kin of Sikhs who had been killed in New Delhi in
1984 in the wake of then prime minister Indira Gandhi's murder. Azmi demanded
that additional compensation be paid to the victims of the 2002 Gujarat riots
also.

The central government had last October announced compensation of Rs5 lakh each
to the kin of 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims, and has written to all states to
disburse the fund as early as possible. This compensation is in addition to what
the victims have so far received from the government and other agencies.

Azmi, who is a legislator from Govandi-Mankhurd constituency, said: "If Modi
thinks that victims of 1984 riots need to be compensated additionally, then
victims of 2002 Gujarat riots and 1992-93 Mumbai riots also deserve similar
treatment."

Azmi said he would write to the prime minister seeking similar relief for
victims of these two riots. He is set to mobilise the community to press his
demand by organising a public meeting in Nagpada which has considerable Muslim
population.

"Most of the victims in these two riots were Muslims and therefore they are
being deliberately ignored by the BJP government. By such grave discrimination,
Modi is polarising the country on religious grounds," said Azmi, who added that
the kin of many of the victims of both these riots were yet to be compensated
due to red-tape. He did not however provide any details.

Raising doubts about the intentions of the Modi government, Azmi said: "Modi is
playing politics of compensation. Delhi elections are here and by paying
additional compensation, he is seeking to secure Sikh votes."

Azmi blamed the prime minister for insulting the community. "Modi has always
rated Muslims as second grade citizens. He never wears a skull-cap."

He also accused the state government of similar biases against the minority
community. "Modi's discrimination policy is being followed diligently by the
Fadnavis government which decided against granting reservation to Muslims in
educational institutions even after the Bombay high court had okayed it."

In numbers

1984 anti-Sikh riots: 3,325 deaths; 2,733 were killed in Delhi alone; rest of
the victims were from UP, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, etc.

1992-93 Mumbai riots:

900 deaths.

2002 Gujarat riots:

1,169 deaths and 2,548 injured.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Riot victims slam CM, 'rented' Muslim leaders

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 475  words

DATELINE: AHMEDABAD/VADODARA


The 2002 riots victims, mostly Muslims, hit out at Chief Minister Narendra Modi
as well as the Muslim faces spotted at his Sadbhavna Mission fast venue on Day
II. The victims said both mock their pain and quest for justice, which remained
unfulfilled yet.

Nazir Master, a victim of Naroda Patiya massacre, said, "Modi has ambition to be
the Prime Minister and therefore he is seeking acceptance from Muslims. But, by
doing so, he is overlooking the plight of the riots victims. And the Muslims who
are thronging his fast venue are unaware of the victims' plight. They are
getting swayed by Modi."

Referring to the Muslim faces joining Modi at the fast venue, Salim Shaikh from
Naroda Patiya said, "They are 'bikau' persons who have not undergone the pain of
the 2002 riots. We have seen our dear ones being killed and raped and are still
waiting for justice."

Imtiyaz Qureshi, who is a victim and witness to the Naroda Gam massacre, said,
"Sadbhavna is goodwill to all. The Muslims going to Modi are those who have not
bear the brunt of the 2002 riots. So, there is no big deal that they are going
with Modi. Let Modi take an initiative to take us (riots victims) also with him
by making sure that we get justice and the real culprits are brought to book."

Riot victims from Vadodara called the Muslims attending Modi's function as
"rented", adding that they would not be forgiven by the God for their wrong
doings.

A statement issued by Rukhsar Salim Memon and Shabnam Arif Memon, who lost their
family members in the riots, said their wounds would have been healed had Modi
visited a single Muslim family after 2002. "We would have surely forgiven him
had he done that but it is not possible though he is doing it in a public
platform," the girls said in the statement.

They added, "Our lives were changed after the communal riots, and by supporting
Modi's fasting, we would not like to hurt the souls of those who died in the
riots. The 'shameless, rented' Muslims will not be forgiven by the Allah."

Firozabanu Memon, who takes care of her daughter Rukhsar and nephew Shabnam by
selling vegetable in Tandalja area of Vadodara, said, "This is nothing but
emotional drama and we would never support this type of gimmick. We have lost
much in the riots and it cannot be replaced by such political stunts. I only
know what hardships I have faced while educating these two girls."

Meanwhile, Ahmedabad police did not allow the victims of Naroda Patiya massacre
and some voluntary organisations to sit on dharna in the locality against
Narendra Modi on Sunday. The programme was coordinated by Jan Sangharsh Manch
(JSM), a voluntary organisation fighting legal fight for the riots victims. As
soon as they started distributing an open letter to Modi in the form of
pamphlets in the afternoon, the police detained them and sent them to Shahibaug
Police Headquarters.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Mining riot early fight for rights

BYLINE: PAUL MAGUIRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 365 words


JACK O'Shea chuckles and his eyes gleam as he looks back on December 16, 1929.

He was a 20-year-old Hunter Valley coalminer then, protesting with about 4000 of
his colleagues in what became known as the Rothbury Riot.

Mr O'Shea remembers the day when northern coalfields men rose against "scab"
labourers being used down the pits, from which they had been locked out, and
police shot and killed a miner who was sitting by the road with his back to the
troubles.

Mr O'Shea, now 96 and living in a Cessnock aged care home, has been interviewed
for a $350,000 television documentary on the 16-month lockout that culminated in
the riot.

A spokesman for Newcastle-based Lockout Productions, Greg Hall, said three men
who were at the riot had been interviewed.

"Jack O'Shea, Jim Comerford from Kurri and Tom McMahon from Wollongong are the
only ones we know who were at the riot and are still alive," Mr Hall said.

"We would love to hear from anyone else who was either at the riot or has
memorabilia, old photographs, diaries, letters or anecdotal stories from people
who were there.

"The lockout and riot were a pivotal time in Australian history as the workers
fought for their rights, and its interesting to note how relevant it remains
today as the Federal Government has tough new industrial relations legislation
before Parliament which workers and the union movement oppose."

Mr O'Shea said police had shot at him and his colleagues during the riot, and
men either side of him were injured as they fled.

The miners eventually went back to work on lower pay.

"But the union gained strength and its members became more militant from what
happened during the lockout and the riot," Mr O'Shea said.

A ROBBERY has delayed by at least two months production of a documentary on the
1929 northern coalfields lockout and Rothbury Riot.

Lockout Productions spokesman Greg Hall said the company's office in the
Newcastle Trades Hall King Street building was ransacked on Tuesday night.

Camera gear, laptop and desktop computers with interviews and material gathered
in the past four years was stolen.

The documentary is funded by Hunter Valley investors, including a $75,000 outlay
by the region's mineworkers trust.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CATALYST: Jack O'Shea, who was in the 1929 Rothbury riot, says it
helped to strengthen unionism.- Picture by Peter Stoop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Mayor doesn't know Cup-riot cop count; Controversy over number of police on duty
after Game 7

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 623  words


Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson on Saturday remained out of the spotlight after
reports the police chief will not give him figures on the number of officers
activated the night of the Stanley Cup riot in downtown Vancouver.

Robertson was slated to speak at a Canadian Citizenship ceremony on the Musqueam
Reserve in south Vancouver Saturday but cancelled at the last minute.

There was no reason given for his change of plans and he was unavailable for
comment afterward.

Other municipal politicians on Saturday spoke of the controversy brewing over
the lack of information being made public on the staffing levels of police the
night of the riot.

"It is hard to believe the mayor of the city did not have the facts,"
municipality Coun. Suzanne Anton said Saturday of Robertson's admission he has
no idea how many officers were on the streets when the crowds turned ugly.

"It is extraordinary to think he doesn't have them now," she added.

Robertson has maintained he had conversations with Police Chief Jim Chu leading
up to the final NHL Stanley Cup Game 7 at Rogers Arena. But he has indicated he
left the policing end to Chu and was not privy to any of the plans or staff
numbers police had going into that riot-filled evening.

"I question his leadership," Anton said. "He also doesn't have much curiosity in
running this event" she added of his lack of knowledge of the police numbers.

She said the so-called "fun zone" in downtown Vancouver, in which big screen
televisions were set up and the road closed, was initiated through the mayor's
office and she feels Roberston needs to be held accountable.

Since the night of the riot, Robertson has said the policing measures were all
left to Chu. The police chief has not been forthcoming with any sort of staff
numbers as the riot intensified.

By the time the backup arrived, a full-blown riot had erupted, leading to major
property damage in the city core.

VPD's Chu has declined to confirm the size of the force patrolling for Game 7,
He did say: "There were hundreds of officers deployed and hundreds more were
brought in later on."

In March, Chu said he was aiming for about the same level of policing used by
Calgary in 2004, and Edmonton in 2006, when those cities played host to games in
the Stanley Cup final.

Vancouver police are defending the number of officers on the street during last
week's riot, saying it was about the same during the gold-medal hockey game
during the 2010 Olympics.

The VPD has refused to say how many officers were on duty the night of the
Stanley Cup riot, but administrative reports filed with city council and the
Vancouver Police Board suggest the initial plan was to have about 300 in the
street.

The officers in place that initially were unable to control the riot, included a
100-member RCMP tactical troop and 100 members of the VPD crowd-control unit,
two groups specially trained in riot response.

The force is continuing to refuse to release its tally of feet on the street,
and maintains it wouldn't matter anyway because there will always be debate over
how many officers would have been enough.

"Following the events of June 15, 2011, media attention has focused on the
number of police on the streets that night. Debate appears to be raging over
whether the number was too small and what should have been the 'correct' number.
While the debate is always worthwhile having, it is important to remember that
there is no 'correct' number."

"Realistically, there is no plausible number of police that could have been
deployed that would have prevented this riot. Nor can anyone predict with 100
per cent certainty whether a riot will occur. Toronto had many more police,
drawn from across the country, on the streets for the G20 and they still had a
riot."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: ROBERTSON;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday

Museum, events mark race riot's anniversary

BYLINE: By Michele Steinbacher;msteinbacher@pantagraph.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 611 words


Setting it Right

Race riot exhibit - The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum in Springfield will
host a one-day symposium Aug. 16 about the Springfield Race Riot of 1908. The
date was incorrect in Sunday's Pantagraph. The museum's "Something So Horrible"
exhibit about the riot includes a piece of wood from a tree where a victim was
lynched in the 1908 riot. The exhibit's artifact affiliation with the crime was
incorrect in the same article.

----------------------------------------

SPRINGFIELD - The reasons behind the infamous 1908 riots that rocked Illinois'
state capital, the history that followed and how race relations remain an issue
a century later are at the heart of a current exhibit in Springfield and talks
planned this fall in the capital and Bloomington.

The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum offers in-depth analysis of
the three-day riot with its exhibit, "Something so Horrible: The Springfield,
Illinois, Race Riot of 1908." It runs through October.

Using artifacts, photos, news reports and oral histories, the exhibit walks
visitors through the tragic weekend in Illinois history, and how it led to the
birth of the nation's pre-eminent civil rights organization - the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

"It presents a chapter in our history that most people would like to forget, but
that we must remember so that we can avoid repeating those mistakes," said
museum spokesman David Blanchette.

Some artifacts include period rifles and bayonets from the state militia (now
called the National Guard), a Ku Klux Klan robe, and rope from a noose, said
Blanchette.

The museum's exhibit isn't the only place to learn about the riot.

About 15 years ago, the city created the "1908 Race Riot Walking Tour." Markers
are placed at the 1908 Sangamon County Jail locations and at seven other
downtown spots, including the two where a mob lynched Scott Burton and William
Donnegan.

Following are other museum events tied to the "Something so Horrible" exhibit.
All events are free, unless noted. Learn more at www.PresidentLincoln.org or
call (217) 558-8934.

w Aug. 15: Symposium on "The Story of 'Something So Horrible' exhibit;" 10 a.m.
to 3:30 p.m.; reservations required.

-  Aug. 16-Oct. 31: "In 1908...," a sculptural archive, from artist Brian
Gillis; companion piece to exhibit featuring audio, video and primary source
artifacts.

-  Sept. 11, Roberta Senechal de la Roche. Book signing and discussion of "In
Lincoln's Shadow: The 1908 Race Riot in Springfield, Illinois," 7 p.m., Union
Theater. Also, three panel discussions of the book lead to her capstone lecture,
including: Aug. 21, "The History: Chronology of the Riot;" Aug. 28, "The
People/Players: Community, Rioters and Victims;" and Sept. 4, "The Aftermath:
Retrospective and Reconciliation."

- Oct. 10, Morris Dees. Lecture by civil rights activist and co-founder of the
Southern Poverty Law Center., 7 p.m., Lincoln Hotel and Conference Center; in
conjunction with the NAACP's Illinois annual conference. Nonconference seats are
$10. Illinois State University Police Chief Ron Swan also will discuss the riots
during the conference.

- Oct. 23, Paula Giddings. Book signing and discussion of "Ida: A Sword Among
Lions: Ida B. Wells and the Campaign Against Lynching," 7 p.m., Union Theater.

- Oct. 23, Swan headlines the Twin Cities' NAACP Freedom Fund Banquet at the
Parke Hotel, Bloomington. He'll discuss "From the Ashes of Tragedy: The Birth of
the NAACP."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Pantagraph


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Myths, mobs and moral panics - understanding the reasons for the riots

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 323 words

ABSTRACT

Ebook gives a different view from the media on the realities that sparked the
riots

FULL TEXT

I mentioned the "media and the riots" conference yesterday, which is taking
place in a week's time.

Perhaps the participants should first read an ebook entitled Mad mobs and
Englishmen? Myths and realities of the 2011 riots, which is available from
today.*

The authors, Steve Reicher and Clifford Stott, argue that the August riots were
not simply the result of mindless criminality or the result of irrational mob
mentality.

They point instead to the people's grievances - a lack of opportunity, shared
identity or empowerment - as the central factors.

In evaluating the riots, they draw together authoritative academic research with
detailed analysis of the live reports from the frontline.

They not only place the events in their historical context, but also offer
suggestions about how a repeat scenario can be avoided in future.

Reicher, professor of social psychology at St Andrews University, is regarded as
a leading expert in crowd psychology. Stott, senior lecturer in psychology at
Liverpool university, is one of Europe's leading authorities on the policing of
riots.

There has been wide praise from those who have already read the book. They
include George Akerlof, winner of the 2001 Nobel prize in economics and
professor of economics at Berkeley, who describes it "compelling evidence for an
alternative view of what really caused the uprisings."

Claudia Hammond, presenter of Radio 4's All in the Mind, said: "Anyone who
really wants to understand the riots should read this."

And Superintendent Roger Evans, former deputy commander of the Metropolitan
police's territorial support group, believes it to be a "reasoned and
intelligent approach in stark contrast to the moral panics apparent in
Westminster and the media in the immediate aftermath of the riots."

*Published by Constable and Robinson. Kindle price: £2.39 on amazon.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field14 & Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10. Legion
baseballZone 1 Tourney At Husson, BangorTuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns.,
weatherThursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer (14-5) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-2), 7 p.m.Saturday, July 26State
TourneyAt Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. G5 loser, 7 p.m.Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. G5 winner, 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.State Tourney At Husson, BangorWednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30
p.m.Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.Junior
LegionState TourneyTuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.GolfHole-in-oneDevon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.MSGAAt Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54Greater Bangor OpenAt Bangor Muni
GCFriday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)LOCALAt
Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 UpAt Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No.
17Harness racingNorthern Maine FairAt Presque IsleFriday's resultsFirst, Pace,
$2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4,
$39.00Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80Fourth, Pace,
$2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60Sixth, Pace,
$3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00Seventh, Trot,
$3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40Eighth, Pace,
$2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field14 & Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10. Legion
baseballZone 1 Tourney At Husson, BangorTuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns.,
weatherThursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer (14-5) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-2), 7 p.m.Saturday, July 26State
TourneyAt Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. G5 loser, 7 p.m.Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. G5 winner, 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.State Tourney At Husson, BangorWednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30
p.m.Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.Junior
LegionState TourneyTuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.GolfHole-in-oneDevon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.MSGAAt Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54Greater Bangor OpenAt Bangor Muni
GCFriday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)LOCALAt
Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 UpAt Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No.
17Harness racingNorthern Maine FairAt Presque IsleFriday's resultsFirst, Pace,
$2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4,
$39.00Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80Fourth, Pace,
$2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60Sixth, Pace,
$3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00Seventh, Trot,
$3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40Eighth, Pace,
$2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field14 & Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10. Legion
baseballZone 1 Tourney At Husson, BangorTuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns.,
weatherThursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer (14-5) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-2), 7 p.m.Saturday, July 26State
TourneyAt Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. G5 loser, 7 p.m.Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. G5 winner, 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.State Tourney At Husson, BangorWednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30
p.m.Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.Junior
LegionState TourneyTuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.GolfHole-in-oneDevon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.MSGAAt Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54Greater Bangor OpenAt Bangor Muni
GCFriday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)LOCALAt
Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 UpAt Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No.
17Harness racingNorthern Maine FairAt Presque IsleFriday's resultsFirst, Pace,
$2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4,
$39.00Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80Fourth, Pace,
$2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60Sixth, Pace,
$3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00Seventh, Trot,
$3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40Eighth, Pace,
$2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field14 & Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10. Legion
baseballZone 1 Tourney At Husson, BangorTuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns.,
weatherThursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer (14-5) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-2), 7 p.m.Saturday, July 26State
TourneyAt Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. G5 loser, 7 p.m.Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. G5 winner, 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.State Tourney At Husson, BangorWednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30
p.m.Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.Junior
LegionState TourneyTuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.GolfHole-in-oneDevon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.MSGAAt Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54Greater Bangor OpenAt Bangor Muni
GCFriday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)LOCALAt
Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 UpAt Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No.
17Harness racingNorthern Maine FairAt Presque IsleFriday's resultsFirst, Pace,
$2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4,
$39.00Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80Fourth, Pace,
$2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60Sixth, Pace,
$3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00Seventh, Trot,
$3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40Eighth, Pace,
$2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Riots victims slam Modi, 'rented' Muslim leaders

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 576  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad, Vadodara


The 2002 riots victims, mostly Muslims, hit out at Narendra Modi as well as the
Muslim faces spotted at his Sadbhavna Mission fast venue on Day II. The victims
said both mock their pain and quest for justice, which remained unfulfilled yet.

Nazir Master, a victim of Naroda Patiya massacre, said, "Modi has ambition to be
the Prime Minister and therefore he is seeking acceptance from Muslims. But, by
doing so, he is overlooking the plight of the riots victims. And the Muslims who
are thronging his fast venue are unaware of the victims' plight. They are
getting swayed by Modi."

Salim Shaikh from Naroda Patiya said, "They are 'bikau' persons who have not
undergone the pain of the riots. We have seen our dear ones being killed and
raped and are still waiting for justice."

Imtiyaz Qureshi, a victim and witness to the Naroda Gam massacre, said, "Muslims
going to Modi are those who have not bear the brunt of the 2002 riots. So, there
is no big deal that they are going with Modi."

Riot victims from Vadodara called the Muslims attending Modi's function as
"rented", adding that they would not be forgiven by the God for their wrong
doings.

A statement issued by Rukhsar Salim Memon and Shabnam Arif Memon, who lost their
family members in the riots, said their wounds would have been healed had Modi
visited a single Muslim family after 2002. "We would have surely forgiven him
had he done that but it is not possible though he is doing it in a public
platform," the girls said in the statement.

They added, "Our lives were changed after the communal riots, and by supporting
Modi's fasting, we would not like to hurt the souls of those who died in the
riots. The 'shameless, rented' Muslims will not be forgiven by the Allah."

Firozabanu Memon, who takes care of her daughter Rukhsar and nephew Shabnam by
selling vegetable in Tandalja area of Vadodara, said, "This is nothing but
emotional drama and we will never support this type of gimmick. We have lost
much in the riots and it cannot be replaced by such political stunts. I only
know what hardships I have faced while educating these two girls."

Meanwhile, Ahmedabad police did not allow the victims of Naroda Patiya massacre
and some voluntary organisations to sit on dharna in the locality against
Narendra Modi on Sunday.

Meanwhile, dismissing Modi's three-day fast as a political stunt, post-Godhra
riot victims wrote an open letter to the CM on Sunday saying 'sadbhavana' cannot
be without justice.

"No amount of power or arrogance gave Midas his glass of water nor will you get
your sadbhavana with all your developmental publicity," riot victims stated.

"We have no ill-feelings towards our Hindu brothers and sisters despite our
terrible loss and sufferings. We both are the victims of powerful political
forces whose strength lies in our division," the letter written by the Jan
Sangharsh Manch (JSM), an NGO, on behalf of the riot victims, said.

"We alone can create 'sadbhavana' by uniting and defeating the forces of fraud
and deception for vote politics. You may be doing all this for your great
ambition to become Prime Minister of the country, but we have only one small
demand for justice," the letter said.

"If you were so great a Chief Minister as you claim today, why could not you
protect these innocent, helpless Muslims? In fact, why did you fail to protect
the innocent 58 passengers of Sabarmati Express who also died in the terrible
fire on 27th February 2002," the riot victims asked.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Sparks, not fires

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 1439  words


Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Vadodara and now East Delhi - a series of communal
incidents have flared up of late. How should we understand their causes? How far
might tensions escalate?

Let us start with a brief historical background. After Partition, as I
documented in my book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in
India, India witnessed its worst phase of communal rioting during 1977-93. Since
1993, communal violence has been declining, with the major exception of 2002,
when Gujarat burnt.

Basically, communal violence has a three-fold strategic structure: what the
Hindu right does, how the Muslim right reacts, and how some "secular" parties
make political calculations. It does not always have to be a "Hindu action and
Muslim reaction" model. It can be the other way round as well. In Hyderabad and
Aligarh, the Muslim right has historically been strong, often causing communal
trouble. But, on the whole, all three players deploy strategic reasoning.

What motivates each political player? Many of the lower- and middle-level cadres
of the BJP have always been socialised in Hindu nationalism. That ideology says
Muslims have been disloyal to India and have hurt the growth of Hindu society.
Ground-level exertions of Hindu pride, attempts at Hindu consolidation and
animosity towards Muslims routinely accompany the electoral rise of Hindu
nationalists. As part of ruling coalitions, Hindu nationalists have been in
power four times in Delhi: 1977-79, 1998-99, 1999-2004, and now. In different
degrees, including in the current phase, the lower- and middle-level leaders
have expressed themselves in a Hindu nationalist ideological vein.

Communal tensions can, in principle, remain hidden if Muslims don't react to
such provocations. But the problem is not so simple. The rise of Hindu
nationalists creates strategic opportunities for the Muslim right, which
believes that its political future can be enhanced if communal fires are stoked
and if it can present itself as a saviour of the Muslim community in an adverse
environment. The Muslim right and Hindu right always feed off each other. The
spread of the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) beyond Telangana, its ability
to win two seats in Maharashtra and its announcement that it will open chapters
in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, three states with some of the highest
percentages of Muslims, exemplifies this phenomenon. Unlike the Muslim League of
Kerala, whose moderation has always been resented by extremist Muslim
organisations, the MIM is quintessentially a rightwing organisation, which
defines Muslim interests as aggressively as the RSS does Hindu interests.

The secular parties, at least some of them, are normally the third player in the
communal game. The logic of their strategy is as follows: if communal violence
breaks out, the BJP or RSS can easily continued...
(http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/sparks-not-fires/2) be blamed,
and the Muslim vote can be consolidated.

Something like this has almost certainly happened in UP. The Samajwadi Party
(SP), which runs the state government, has a close relationship with the state's
Muslims. It saw Muslim insecurity as a way to solidify Muslim support. Narendra
Modi's ascendancy emboldened state cadres of the party. And some Muslim leaders
detected a strategic opportunity.

If this is the strategic structure of the problem, how should one foresee future
directions? Will India witness a revival of the severe rioting of 1978-93? We
need to keep three factors in mind: income levels, Hindu-Muslim ties and Modi's
political strategy.

The literature on the relationship between income and riots suggests that at
high levels of income, riots become episodic. France had its riots in 2005, as
did the US in 1993. But such riots were not a regular and continuing phenomenon,
which they tend to be at lower levels of income. The literature heavily focuses
on state capacity as a key variable generating this outcome. Tensions and small
skirmishes can emerge, but before they turn into full-fledged rioting, the
police or security forces intervene and put down the disturbances. Sparks do not
easily become fires.

India provides mixed evidence for this theory. First, Hindu-Muslim riots are
primarily an urban, not a rural, phenomenon. Urban incomes have always been
greater than rural incomes. In India, more riots have broken out in places that
had higher incomes. The second feature of Indian riots, however, affirms the
theory. The period of declining riots, since 1993, does coincide with incomes
rising at an unprecedented rate.

The key question is this: has India reached a threshold of income where riots,
as a result of higher state capacities, would decline for sure? No one seriously
suggests that bureaucratic capacity is high anywhere in India, with the possible
exception of Kerala. UP, where riots have made the biggest comeback, might be
among the lowest-income states, with an ineffectual bureaucracy, but Maharashtra
and Gujarat, which have also had riots, are among the richest, with higher
administrative capacity. Moreover, during 1950-95, Gujarat and Maharashtra had
more deaths in communal riots than UP and Bihar.

The second factor, the nature of Hindu-Muslim ties, was a key argument in my
book. In urban India, riots were locally concentrated. During 1950-95, a mere
eight cities - Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Aligarh, Meerut, Vadodara, Delhi
and Kolkata - accounted for 46 per cent of all deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots. In
those cities where bridging ties existed between the two communities - in
business, politics, education and other walks of life - the local state organs
functioned well in times of tension, and violence was minimal or very rare.
Contrariwise, Hindu-Muslim segregation, in daily life and associations, was the
best predictor of rioting. If India's future economic growth produces bridging
ties between Hindus and Muslims, one should expect riots not to have a large
resurgence. However, if it forges only bonding ties - ties inside the religious
community, not across religious boundaries - the constraining effects
continued...
(http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/sparks-not-fires/2) of
bridging will not exist.

Enduring patterns in the Hindu-Muslim relationship are normally a medium- to
long-run phenomenon. It is the third factor, Modi's political strategy, that
will be decisive in the shorter run. If large communal riots do return, they
will hurt Modi in two ways. First, restoring economic growth and governance was
his most important campaign theme. Large riots will seriously hurt investment
prospects and undermine governance. In the worst period of riots, 1977-93, India
was not as globally interconnected as it is now. Nor did it seek foreign
investment. That is no longer true. Modi is known for an investment-driven model
of growth. On his foreign trips, he has systematically courted investors.

Second, putting the 2002 riots entirely behind and seeking a new identity in the
form of economic progress and governance has been the dominant Modi strategy for
some time. If riots spread and he is unable to control them, especially in
BJP-ruled states, the contentions, images and politics of 2002 will come back to
haunt. Muslims, of course, will not return to him, but many Hindus who voted for
his governance and growth promise, not for Hindu nationalism, will also desert
him. Surveys show that every fourth vote for the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha
elections was for him, not the party. His newly acquired international standing,
which has taken quite long to build, will also suffer badly.

Thus, Modi is likely to be opposed to an instrumental use of riots in politics,
by his cadres or any other party. The tenacity and resolution with which Modi
uses power to combat ground-level strategies will ultimately determine how far
communal violence goes. One should expect small disturbances, not big
conflagrations, not many in any case. If my analysis turns out to be wrong,
immense violent convulsions will rock India's project of economic progress.
Majoritarian Sinhala nationalism was singlehandedly responsible for taking the
shine off Sri Lanka, viewed by many in the 1970s as a future economic tiger,
potentially comparable to Singapore. India needs to avoid the Sri Lankan fate.

The writer, Sol Goldman Professor of International Studies and the Social
Sciences and Director of the India Initiative, Brown University, is a
contributing editor for 'The Indian Express'. The argument advanced in this
column is developed at greater length in the Journal of Democracy, October 2014.

express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field


14 & Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam:1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10.


Legion baseball


Zone 1 Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Tuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)


Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns., weather


Thursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2


Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 1 Bangor 5


Saturday, July 26


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.


Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-3), 7 p.m.


Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. No. 3 Brewer (15-5), 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Wednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30 p.m.


Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.


Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.


Junior Legion


State Tourney


Tuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0


Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5


Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1


Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.


Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.





Golf


Hole-in-one


Devon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.


Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.


MSGA


At Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54


Greater Bangor Open


At Bangor Muni GC


Friday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160


Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)


LOCAL


At Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75


At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9


At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 Up


At Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No. 17


Harness racing


Northern Maine Fair


At Presque Isle


Friday's results


First, Pace, $2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40


Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4, $39.00


Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80


Fourth, Pace, $2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20


Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60


Sixth, Pace, $3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00


Seventh, Trot, $3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40


Eighth, Pace, $2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590




LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field


14 & Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam:1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10.


Legion baseball


Zone 1 Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Tuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)


Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns., weather


Thursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2


Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 1 Bangor 5


Saturday, July 26


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.


Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-3), 7 p.m.


Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. No. 3 Brewer (15-5), 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Wednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30 p.m.


Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.


Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.


Junior Legion


State Tourney


Tuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0


Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5


Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1


Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.


Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.





Golf


Hole-in-one


Devon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.


Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.


MSGA


At Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54


Greater Bangor Open


At Bangor Muni GC


Friday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160


Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)


LOCAL


At Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75


At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9


At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 Up


At Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No. 17


Harness racing


Northern Maine Fair


At Presque Isle


Friday's results


First, Pace, $2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40


Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4, $39.00


Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80


Fourth, Pace, $2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20


Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60


Sixth, Pace, $3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00


Seventh, Trot, $3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40


Eighth, Pace, $2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590




LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field


14 & Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam:1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10.


Legion baseball


Zone 1 Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Tuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)


Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns., weather


Thursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2


Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 1 Bangor 5


Saturday, July 26


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.


Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-3), 7 p.m.


Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. No. 3 Brewer (15-5), 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Wednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30 p.m.


Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.


Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.


Junior Legion


State Tourney


Tuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0


Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5


Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1


Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.


Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.





Golf


Hole-in-one


Devon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.


Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.


MSGA


At Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54


Greater Bangor Open


At Bangor Muni GC


Friday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160


Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)


LOCAL


At Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75


At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9


At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 Up


At Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No. 17


Harness racing


Northern Maine Fair


At Presque Isle


Friday's results


First, Pace, $2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40


Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4, $39.00


Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80


Fourth, Pace, $2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20


Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60


Sixth, Pace, $3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00


Seventh, Trot, $3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40


Eighth, Pace, $2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590




LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for July 25, 2014

LENGTH: 3469 words


Track & field


14 & Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


USATF Group D Boys and Coed Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor
Rec TC, Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden
Rec TC, Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Lukas Modrusan, Hampden, 8:06.31. 800 Race Walk Midget:
1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:22.94. 2, Tyler Libby, Hampden, 6:25.39.100 Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 17.27. 2, Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 17.30. 3, Tyler
Wilkinson, Brewer, 17.60. 100 Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 15.46. 2, Kyle
Long, Brewer, 15.78. 3, Carter Brocato, Bangor, 15.96. 100 Midget: 1, Ben Brook,
Bangor, 13.48. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 14.85. 3, Logan


Geiser, Brewer, 15.37. 100 Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots (Orono, 13.11. 2,
Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.11. 3, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.39. 400
Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:25.49. 2, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:27.51.
3, Matthew Cormier, Blue Hill, 1:28.70. 400 Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato, Bangor,
1:19.49. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:20.78. 3, Ethan Hallett, Hampden, 1:26.10.
400 Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:02.17. 2, Cayman Zephir, Central, 1:13.26.
3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 1:13.60. 400 Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin,
Central, 1:05.07. 2, Jeremiah Scheff, Blue Hill, 1:10.25. 3, Meredith Bradshaw
Thomas, Blue Hill, 1:12.62. 1500 Bantam:1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 5:59.38. 2,
Evan Smith, Red Riots (Orono, 6:34.49.


3, James McConville, Red Riots (Orono, 6:55.94. 1500 Midget: 1, Nicholas
Cormier, Blue Hill, 6:08.15. 2, Liam Farrell, Red Riots (Orono, 6:14.90. 3,
Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:53.22. 1500 Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey, Bangor, 4:54.84.
2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 5:37.20. 3, Eric Mote, Blue Hill, 6:07.41.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Bangor 'A' (Josh Cameron, James Brocato, Ian Blackwell,
Dashel Knapp), 1:22.05. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Jack Brewer, Ben Arsenault,


Nicholas Needham, Kameron Stoops), 1:23.71. 3, Lincoln 'A' (Julian Worster,
Kodiak Gerken, Kooper McCarthy, Owen Fullerton), 1:23.80. 4x100 Relay Bantam: 1,
Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Cooper Sever, Mason Kenney, Chase Campbell, Noah Kreutz),
1:10.66. 2, Bangor 'A' (Colby Oiler, Michael Snyer, Ryan Shorey, Carter
Brocato), 1:10.93. 3, Old Town 'A' (Owen Connor Self, Conner May, Spencer
Gordon, Stirling Hall), 1:22.11. 4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town 'A' (Nicholas
Haggerty, Nick Letourneau, Jacob O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:02.53. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ben Culina, Xander Lannigan, Liam Farrell, John Nadeau), 1:13.14.
4x100 Relay Youth: 1, Blue Hill 'A' (Meredith Bradshaw Thomas, Duncan Howell,
Jeremiah Scheff, Eric Mote), 1:06.30. 4x100 Relay Mite Mixed: 1, Blue Hill 'A'
(Matthew Cormier, Acadia Evans, Maranda Pert, Keira Stearns), 1:20.18. 2, Old
Town 'A' (Natasha Alyokhin, Tyler Priest, Addie Trefts, Michael Rene), 1:26.67.
3, Central 'A' (Kourtney Kenneson, Madison Kenneson, Brady Jerome, Emma Byers),
1:28.09. 4x100 Relay Bantam Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Ty Velgouse, Kennen Bean,
Nevaeh Daigle, Julia Viani), 1:10.78. 2, Bangor 'A' (Joshua Bohm, Jasmine Knapp,
Samuel Rutledge, Cadence Stockford), 1:14.43. 3, Blue Hill 'A' (Ian Potter,
Charles St. Lawrence, Ana Scheff, Caroline Mazgai), 1:17.11. 4x100 Relay Midget
Mixed:1, Central 'A' (Pierce Hall, Lucas Ames, Kiyana Jerome, Emilee Cohen),
1:04.99. 2, Blue Hill 'A' (Grace Broughton, Abigail Mazgai, Aidan Stearns, Henry
Scheff), 1:07.39. 3, Blue Hill 'B' (Nicholas Cormier, Grady Walsh, Sydney
Walsh,), 1:10.15. 4x100 Relay Youth Mixed: 1, Old Town 'A' (Delaney Veilleux,
Kyle Smith, Elizabeth Trefts, Liang-kang Lin), 59.16. 2, Old Town 'C' (Whitney
Thomas, Amber Morgan, David Beal), 1:00.21. 3, Central 'A' (Nathaniel Jerome
(15), Allie Elliott, Jaeden Viani, Elijah Ames(15)), 1:01.39. Javelin Mite: 1,
Cole Mazzei, Bangor, 58-09. 2, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 58-02. 3, Brady Paradis,
Old Town, 40-10. Javelin Bantam: 1, Cooper Moran, Brewer, 77-02. 2, Clark
Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-10. 3, Will Kusnierz, Central, 59-06. Javelin Midget: 1,
Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 88-01. 2, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 87-02.
3, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 79-08. Javelin Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 118-06. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots (Orono, 105-06. 3, Cameron Tower,
Red Riots (Orono, 93-09. Long Jump Mite: 1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 10-00.25. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 9-04.75. 3,


Ashton Carusoe, Bangor, 9-04.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln,
12-02.25. 2, Kyle Long, Brewer, 11-07.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill,
10-04.75. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 13-02. 2, Henry Scheff, Blue Hill, 12-03. 3,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 12-02.50. Long Jump Youth: 1, Trent Lick, Red Riots
(Orono, 15-10. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 15-08.50. 3, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 14-07.25. Pole Vault Youth:


1, Michael Hayden, Brewer, 6-00. 2, Peter Blackwell, Bangor, 5-06. 3, Jared
Hoxie, Brewer, 5-00. Discus Midget: 1, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 63-06. 2,
Nathan Regan, Old Town, 61-10. 3,


Austin Proudfoot, Old Town, 60-06. Discus Youth: 1, Jacob St. Louis, Bangor,
113-00. 2, Jacob McCluskey, Bangor, 94-00. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots (Orono,
85-06. 80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 14.59. 2, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots (Orono, 16.37. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.17. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 18.32. 2, Matthew Glidden, Pittsfield, 18.39. 3,
Liang-kang Lin, Old Town, 18.92.


USATF Group D Girls Results (Top three in each event) -- Clubs: Bangor Rec TC,
Brewer Rec TC, Blue Hill Peninsula TC, Central TC, Coolnings TC, Hampden Rec TC,
Lincoln Rec TC,Old Town TC, Red Riots (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Emily Sinclair, Red Riots (Orono, 6:11.57. 2, Addie
Trefts, Old Town,


7:31.67. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1, Megan Brewer, Red Riots (Orono, 5:33.17. 2,
Laura Kirkpatrick, Red Riots (Orono, 5:48.25. 3, Shalomi Goewey, Pittsfield,
5:57.87. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 16.44. 2, Hannah
Dunn, Brewer, 16.70. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 17.26. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1,
Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.93. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue Hill, 19.46. 3,
Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 20.42. 200 Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 37.22. 2,
Anna Molloy, Red Riots (Orono, 37.31. 3, Madison Ross, Brewer, 38.11. 200
Bantam:


1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 32.90. 2, Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 33.68. 3, Julia
Viani, Central, 34.96. 200 Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 31.29. 2, McKenzie
Lawrence, Central, 31.32. 3, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 31.82. 200 Youth: 1, Mykayla
Hoggard, Bangor, 28.50. 2, Lily Moran, Old Town, 30.27. 3, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 30.76. 800 Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:05.25. 2, Sophie
Schall, Hampden, 3:34.41. 3, Sadie May, Old Town, 3:45.03. 800 Bantam:


1, Nora White, Red Riots (Orono, 3:15.58. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:20.79. 3,
Cadence Stockford, Bangor, 3:21.68. 800 Midget: 1, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor,
3:00.59. 2, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:01.97. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor,
3:10.69. 800 Youth:1, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:49.54. 2, Caroline Looke,
Blue Hill, 2:50.09. 3, Arianne Geiser, Brewer, 2:52.10. 3000 Midget :1, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:21.93. 3000 Youth: 1, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:35.85. 2,
Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 13:42.92. 4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central T 'A' (Kamryn
Tyrrell, Natalie Giles, Addison Verrill, Kacy Tyrrell), 1:17.88. 2, Red Riot
(Orono) 'A' (Ruth White, Clara White, Solece Campbell, Anna Molloy), 1:21.60. 3,
Old Town T 'A' (Noel Thomas, Lily Rand, Elyannah Briggs, Sadie May), 1:30.40.
4x400 Relay Bantam: 1, Bangor 'A' (Allie Cameron, Jasmine Knapp, Michaela
Saulter, Cadence Stockford), 5:46.85. 2, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Abby Batchelder,
Darby Connor-Self, Megan Brewer, Hannah Sinclair), 6:17.85. 3, Old Town


'A' (Emma Trefts, Emily Jones, Sadie Phillips, Lillianna Powers), 6:34.44. 4x400
Relay Midget:


1, Red Riot (Orono) 'A' (Hannah Batchelder, Erin Gerbi, Krista Bass, Eva White),
5:43.67. 2, Bangor 'A' (Olivia Davis, Alyssa Elliot, Emma Hall, Willow Knapp),
5:57.29. 3, Old Town 'A' (Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts, Mackenzie
Saucier), 6:01.12. 4x400 Relay Youth:


1, Blue Hill 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:00.53. 2, Old Town T 'A' (Lily Moran, Grace Harvey, Elizabeth
Trefts, Morgan Paradis), 5:18.34. Triple Jump Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer,
25-10. 2, Kaya Lolar, Old Town, 23-07.50. 3, Claudia


Damboise, Old Town, 23-02.50. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
33-03.75. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-04.50. 3, Katie O'Brien, Red Riots
(Orono, 30-00.25. High Jump Mite: 1, Sophie Schall, Hampden, 3-00. 2, Vayda
Billings, Brewer, 3-00. 3, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. High Jump Bantam: 1,
Bayley Casavant, Central, 3-05. 2, Darby Connor-Self, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. 3,
Abby Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-03. High Jump Midget: 1, Mackenzie Lambert,
Bangor, 4-01. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red Riots (Orono, 3-09. 3, Teagan Blackie,
Old Town, 3-09. High Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 5-00. 2, Tess
Williamson, Blue Hill, 4-01. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 4-01. Pole Vault
Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-06. 2, Emma Hargreaves, Old Town, 5-06.
2, Whitney Thomas, Old Town, 5-06. Shot Put Mite: 1, Chloe Daigle, Central,
17-01.50. 2, Vayda Billings, Brewer, 16-02. 3, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill,
14-10.25. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central, 21-03. 2, Libby Frazee,
Bangor, 19-07. 3, Taylor Gardner, Hampden, 15-00. Shot Put Midget: 1, Claudia
Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 23-06. 3, Emilee Cohen,
Central, 21-00. Shot Put Youth: 1, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 32-02.75. 2, Emma
Hargreaves, Old Town, 27-08.25. 3, Jennah Geiser, Brewer, 24-10.


Legion baseball


Zone 1 Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Tuesday, July 22


Game 1: No. 5 Motor City 11, No. 4 Penquis 0 (8 inns.)


Wednesday, July 23


G2: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 2 Trenton 1, suspended after 6Â 1/2 inns., weather


Thursday, July 24


G2: No. 3 Brewer 11, Trenton 2, completion of suspended game


G3: No. 1 Bangor 11, No. 5 Motor City 2


Friday, July 25


G4: No. 2 Trenton 5, No. 5 Motor City 3, Motor City eliminated


G5: No. 3 Brewer 6, No. 1 Bangor 5


Saturday, July 26


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


P1: Zone 2 runner-up (Franklin County) vs. Zone 4 runner-up (Saco & Biddeford
Savings-Westbrook), 10 a.m.


P2: Zone 3 runner-up (Bessey Motors-South Paris) vs. Zone 5 runner-up (Fayette
Staples-Saco), 3 p.m.


Zone 1 Tourney


G6: No. 2 Trenton (14-6) vs. No. 1 Bangor (17-3), 7 p.m.


Sunday, July 27


G7: G6 winner vs. No. 3 Brewer (15-5), 1 p.m.


G8: (If-necessary game), 4 p.m.


State Tourney


At Husson, Bangor


Wednesday, July 30


G1: Zone 1 winner vs. Zone 5 winner (Post 188-Eliot), 10 a.m.


G2: Zone 3 winner (Pastime Club-Lewiston) vs. P1 winner, 12:30 p.m.


G3: Zone 2 winner (Post 51-Oakland) vs. P2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G4: Zone 4 winner (Morrill Post-South Portland) vs. Zone 1 runner-up, 6:30 p.m.


Thursday, July 31


G5: G1 loser vs. G2 loser, 10 a.m.


G6: G3 loser vs. G4 loser, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G1 winner vs. G2 winner, 3:30 p.m.


G8: G3 winner vs. G4 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Friday, Aug. 1


G9: G6 winner vs. G7 loser, 11 a.m.


G10: G5 winner vs. G7 loser, 3 p.m.


G11: G7 winner vs. G8 winner, 6:30 p.m.


Saturday, Aug. 2


*G12: G11 loser vs. G9 winner, noon


*G13: G11 winner vs. G10 winner, 3 p.m.


Sunday, Aug. 3


**G14: G12 winner vs. G13 winner, noon


**G15: (If-necessary game}, 3:30 p.m.


*- Pairings for G12 and G13 will not match previous opponents unless absolutely
necessary.


**- If three teams remain after G13 the G11 winner receives a bye in G14.


Junior Legion


State Tourney


Tuesday, July 22


Madison Junior 39ers 8, Innovative Workplace Solutions (Augusta) 6


Gray-NG Post 7, Yankee Ford (Cheverus) 4


Chase Custom Homes (Gorham) 6, Libby-Mitchell Post (Scarborough) 1


Lyman Eagles 7, Fayette-Staples Post (Saco) 0


Wednesday, July 23


Standish Post 3, Chase Custom 2


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) 6, Lyman Eagles 5


Thursday, July 24


Madison Junior 6, Bruno's Restaurant (Portland) 4 (8 inns.)


Fairfield Post 18, Gray-NG 1


Saturday, July 26


A.T. Hutchins (Deering) at South Portland (Wainwright Field), 11 a.m.


Madison Junior at Bangor (UMaine), 11 a.m.


Standish Post at Wells Post (Wells Middle School), 11 a.m.


Fairfield Post at Oxford Hills (OH High School), 11 a.m.


Sunday, July 27


South Portland at A.T. Hutchins (Deering HS), 11 a.m.


Bangor at Madison Junior (Memorial Field), 11 a.m.


Wells at Standish (Bonny Eagle HS), 11 a.m.


Oxford Hills at Fairfield (Lawrence HS), 11 .m.





Golf


Hole-in-one


Devon Downs


WINTERPORT -- Devon Downs of Winterport recorded his first career hole-in-one
when he aced the 110-yard seventh hole during Sonny's Junior Golf Camp tourney
Friday. Downs use a 5-wood to notch the ace, which was witnessed by Kota Noonan,
John Davis, Alex Knapp, Josh Demaso, Derrick Davi and Skip Howard.


Ed Darling


BAR HARBOR -- Ed Darling aced the 152-yard 15th hole at Kebo Valley on Friday.
Darling used a 4-Hybrid for the shot, which was witnessed by Ron Tibbetts and
Larry Eldridge.


MSGA


At Martindale CC


Junior Event -- Ages Boys 15-17: Gavin Dugas 78, Luke Ruffing 78, Drew Kane 79,
Craig Smith 80, Chris deWolf 82, Tyler O'Connor 82, Eric Dugas 83, Macarthur Kim
85, Alex Whitmore 86, Kenny Tuttle 86, Kyle Lamson 86, Alexander Spiller 88,
Brendan Donovan 88, Jacob Bartlett 91, Justin Keaney 92, Sam Meredith 93, Manoli
Gammaitoni 94, Matthew Keaney 95, Noah Jule 95, John Z Alden 100, Michael Bryant
101, Nicholas Gammaitoni 102, Antonio A.J. Parisi 104; Boys 13-14: Austin Legge
76, Caleb Manuel 83, Jeremy Baker 88, Kyle Cholod 89, Adam White 90, Ben
Gosselin 92, Leif Olson 94, Samuel A Cundff 95, Matthew Merrill 99, Aaron
Perkins 102; Girls 15-17: Kelsie Dessent 82, Erin Holmes 86, Mckenze Coyne 98;
Girls 13-14: Stephanie Rodrigue 84, Janelle Bryant 91, Maddie Kate Kaufman 93,
Markella Gammaitoni 104, Valerie Doucette 105; 12 and Under: Ryder Henry 38,
Ryan Stimson 41, Evan Glicos 44, Bennett Berg 47, Jack Clark 49, Colin Merritt
51, Demetri Gammaitoni 52, Sam Clark 54


Greater Bangor Open


At Bangor Muni GC


Friday's second-round scores


Mike Van Sickle 60-66--126, David Chung 63-63--126, Jesse Larson 62-65--127,
Jesse Speirs 68-62--130, Bobby Gage 66-65--131, Cody Paladino 65-66--131, Thomas
Murray 65-67--132, Eric Egloff 68-64--132, Chris DeJohn 67-66--133, Brian
Bergstol 68-66--134, John Hickson (p&s) 66-68--134, Nick Antonelli 67-68--135,
Patrick Rada 68-67--135, Josh Salah 70-65--135, Christopher Fitzpatrick
69-67--136, Colin Brennan 68-68--136, Marc Hurtubise (p&s) 69-67--136, Greg
Jarmas 69-67--136, Mark Purrington 68-68--136, Brandon Parker 70-66--136, Jason
Harris 70-67--137, Kyle Gallo 70-67--137, Jon McLean 70-67--137, Matt Smith
68-69--137, Shawn Warren 68-69--137


Cody Semmelrock 67-70--137, Chad Bouchard 70-68--138, Matt Dubrowski 71-67--138,
Mike Dugas 70-68--138, Ryan Gay 73-65--138, Paul Simpkins 68-70--138, Ricky
Stimets 69-69--138, Andrew Turner 71-67--138, Sam Bracket 71-67--138, Fran Quinn
69-69--138, Matthew Baker 70-69--139, Michael Carbone 70-69--139, Ken Lewis
68-71--139, Jason Parajeckas 68-71--139, Joseph Harney 69-70--139, Don Robertson
(p&s) 72-67--139, Francis Rouillier 70-69--139, T. Jay Fairlie 68-71--139, Josh
Landine (a) 74-71--145, Gary Van Sickle (a) 72-74--146, Neil Lyons (a)
74-73--147, David Jones (a) 74-75--149, Christopher Juntura (a) 73-76--149,
Connor Murphy (a) 77-72--149, Ben Estabrook (a) 75-74--149, Alex Purdom (a)
75-75--150, Eric Fowle (a) 78-75--153, Chris Ruggiero (a) 75-78--153, David
Robinson (a) 80-79--159


FAILED TO QUALIFY: Andrew Mason 70-70--140, Daniel Augustus 70-70--140, Joel
Cutlip 70-70--140, Sean Gorgone 66-74--140, Andrew Larkin 72-68--140, Thomas
Brewer 73-68--141, Clement Herviou 69-72--141, David Hilgers 68-73--14, Camiko
Smith 71-70--141, Eric Onesi 73-69--142, Rich Berberian 69-73--142, Joe Clark
Jr. (s) 73-69--142, Matthew Loubier 73-69--142, Joe Toland 74-68--142, Dakota
Brown 76-67--143, Patrick Bucklin 72-71--143, Matt Saglio 71-72--143, Maxime
Barre 72-71--143, Ryan Oullette 70-74--144, Dylan Dethier 70-74--144, John
Elliott (p&s) 73-71--144, Scott Hacker 73-71--144, Peter Hong 70-74--144, Ian
Thimble 72-72--144, Brian Johnson 74-71--145


Kerry Johnston (p&s) 70-75--145, Edward Natti 71-74--145, Coleman Davis
74-71--145, Greg Mergel 69-76--145, Dan St. Louis (s) 73-72--145, Geoff
Gelderman 74-72--146, Ron Bibeau (p&s) 74-73--147, Jace Pearson 73-74--147,
Michael Hersey 72-75--147, Dave Soucy (s) 73-74--147, Jason Ruffin 74-74--148,
Eric Dugas 70-79--149, Derick Fors 75-74--149, Jean-Philip Cornellier
72-77--149, Peter Ruymann 74-75--149, Dirk Ayers 76-73--149, Mac Boucher
76-75--151, Timothy Carey 74-77--151, Robert Meheran 77-74--151, John Wachtler
74-78--152, Philippe Gariepy 73-80--153, Bradley Young 76-78--154, Tovie St.
Louis 77-79--156, Chad Hopkins 83-77--160


Saturday's tee times


7:00 a.m. -- David Robinson (a), Chris Ruggiero (a), Eric Fowle (a)


7:09 -- Alex Purdom (a), Ben Estabrook (a), Connor Murphy (a)


7:18 -- Christopher Juntura (a), David Jones (a), Neil Lyons (a)


7:27 -- Gary Van Sickle (a), Josh Landine (a), T. Jay Fairlie


7:36 -- Francis Rouillier, Don Robertson (p&s), Joseph Harney


7:45 -- Jason Parajeckas, Ken Lewis, Michael Carbone


7:54 -- Matthew Baker, Fran Quinn, Sam Bracket


8:12 -- Andrew Turner, Ricky Stimets, Paul Simpkins


8:21 -- Mike Dugas, Ryan Gay, Matt Dubrowski


8:30 -- Chad Bouchard, Cody Semmelrock, Shawn Warren


8:39 -- Matt Smith, Jon McLean, Kyle Gallo


8:48 -- Jason Harris, Brandon Parker, Mark Purrington


8:57 -- Greg Jarmas, Marc Hurtubise (p&s), Colin Brennan


9:15 -- Josh Salah, Christopher Fitzpatrick, Patrick Rada


9:24 -- Nick Antonelli, John Hickson (p&s), Brian Bergstol


9:33 -- Chris DeJohn, Eric Egloff, Thomas Murray


9:42 -- Cody Paladino, Bobby Gage, Jesse Speirs


9:51 -- Jesse Larson, David Chung, Mike Van Sickle


(p&s: pro division & senior division; s: senior division; a: amateur)


LOCAL


At Sonny's, Winterport


Junior Golf Camp, 9-hole tourney -- Short course, Par 34 -- Girls Division;
Sarah Dumas 53, Megan Cleaves 65, Kellie Armstrong 70, Sydney Brown 73; Boys
Division; Josh Demaso 38, Alex Knapp 41, Ban Allen 43,Devon Downs 51, Patrick
Shaw 53, Ty Knappe 67, Kota Noonan 70, John Davis 75


At Pine Hill GC


R.H. Foster Senior League -- Modified Stableford:.1st Mike French, Dickie Reed
and Phil Newbury +5, 2nd (tie) Ralph Holyoke, Darrell Grover and Grady
Stevenson, Mike LaChance, Dick Crawford and Bunny Russell, Even; 4th Pat Davis,
Darrell Grover and Ed Dorian -3, 5th Bruce Treworgy, Steve Cyr and Ray McNinch
-6; Pins: No. 5 Ed Dorian 36-0, No. 14 Bunny Russell 36-9


At Piscataquis CC


String Scramble -- Net: 1. Jason Goggin, Bob Bradford, Dave Leland 25; 2. Bill
Kirby, Jeanette Morrill, Roger Millett 26; 3. Mike Schnieder, Sue Perkins, Bill
Carsten 28; 4.Bob Sawyer, Sue Leland, Magid Shahin 29; 5.Frank Rollins, Dave
Garland, Wayne Chase 30; 6. Butch Goodwin, Mike Brown, Chuck Libby 32


Presidents Cup: Bob Sawyer defeated Wayne Clukey, 1 Up


At Kebo Valley


Green Mountain -- Individual hole team total, front 9: 1. Ron Tibbetts, Larry
Eldridge, Ed Darling 10 pts. No. 5; back 9: Ron Tibbetts, Larry Eldridge, Ed
Darling 9 pts. No. 14, Brent Barker, Mark Foley, Doug Lackey 9 pts. No. 17


Harness racing


Northern Maine Fair


At Presque Isle


Friday's results


First, Pace, $2,400


3. Maras World, K. Hafford III 8.00-3.00-2.20


4. Iswhatitis, S. Thayer 2.60-2.10


5. Willy Mac, D. Duncan 2.10


T-2:00.3; Qu. 3-4, $8.00; Ex. 3-4, $20.40


Second, Pace, $2,500


4. Wahhahuckaloogi, C. Nye 3.60-2.40-2.40


2. Mac N Ernie, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.60


7. Dynamic Datsyuk, S. Thayer 2.40


T-2:00.4; Qu. 2-4, $7.00; Ex. 4-2, $7.00; Tri. 4-2-7, $23.00; DD 3-4, $39.00


Third, Pace, $3,000


5. Sun Bleau Slick, K. Switzer Jr. 12.40-8.60-8.00


1. Fort Hamilton, G. Bowden 6.00-4.00


4. Batonette, S. Thayer 4.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-5, $14.60; Ex. 5-1, $24.00; Tri. 5-1-4, $310.80


Fourth, Pace, $2,600


2. No Faultz, K. Switzer Jr. 3.20-2.40-2.20


8. McPfast Bluegrass, C. Nye 3.00-2.20


3. Notin Fancy, S. Thayer 3.00


T-1:59.2; Qu. 2-8, $8.80; Ex. 2-8, $4.80; Tri. 2-8-3, $35.20


Fifth, Pace, $3,400


1. One False Move, K. Switzer Jr. 3.00-2.20-2.10


2. Ohm Like Clockwork, C. Nye 3.40-2.40


4. Joseph Michael, G. Bowden 2.20


T-1:56.2; Qu. 1-2, $26.60; Ex. 1-2, $116.80; Tri. 1-2-4, $66.60


Sixth, Pace, $3,400


1. Rawdon Gold Digger, K. Switzer Jr. 6.00-3.40-2.40


7. Forever Paradise, S. Thayer 2.80-2.20


5. Test of Will, F. Ward Jr. 3.40


T-1:57.4; Qu. 1-7, $5.60; Ex. 1-7, $8.80; Tri. 1-7-5, $97.00


Seventh, Trot, $3,400


2. Stirling Abacus, S. MacKenzie 6.80-5.40-2.80


5. B J Eldorado, S. Thayer 21.00-2.60


3. Shes A Hasty Honey, W. Brown 4.20


T-2:03.2; Qu. 2-5, $30.80; Ex. 2-5, $50.20; Tri. 2-5-3, $382.40


Eighth, Pace, $2,500


4. Pembroke Joe Dunn, W. Brown 15.00-10.20-4.00


6. Raytheking, S. Thayer 4.60-3.40


1. Southwest Bliss, C. Nye 2.80


T-1:59.2; Qu. 4-6, $14.80; Ex. 4-6, $23.20; Tri. 4-6-1, 121.60; DD 2-4,


$49.60; Total Handle: $13,590




LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 10, 2006 Friday

Covering a dark moment ;
 Journal, Register took different approaches in their stories on the 1908 race
riot

BYLINE: DAVE BAKKE Staff Writer

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 1442 words


The race riot of August 1908 began with an alleged midnight assault on Mabel
Hallam as she slept in her Springfield home on the night of Thursday, Aug. 13.

The story of the attack received major play in the Illinois State Register -
coverage that bordered on the hysterical and probably inflamed passions that
already were at the boiling point.

The Register put the story on Page 1 with the headline, "Dragged from her bed
and outraged by Negro." The Illinois State Journal, in contrast, put the initial
story on Page 3, and while the Journal story went into detail about the alleged
crime, its overall tone was more restrained than the Register's.

Hallam was described in the Register story as being "in the relentless clutches
of the brute." The article went as far as to mention possible suspects - casting
suspicion on several black workers who were helping to construct a nearby home,
none of whom apparently had anything to do with the attack.

The Register's first story ended with this: "That such an outrage should occur
in a principal residential district and in one of the best homes of the city is
to be greatly deplored. It is bad enough to have such characters to contend with
in the slums ... no effort should be spared to find the black viper and to force
appropriate punishment."

In those years, stories in Springfield newspapers did not carry bylines, so the
name of the reporter who wrote that first story - a story that may well have
inspired many rioters - is lost to history. Also common in the journalism of the
day was news reporting being mixed with editorial opinion. To the contemporary
newspaper reader, many articles printed in the early 20th century seem libelous.

As events unfolded over the next few days in 1908, the Register devoted page
after page to the riots and their aftermath. The Journal also printed numerous
stories and photographs on the riots, but took at least a slightly more
restrained tone than the Register.

Though the editorials of both the Journal and the Register decried the mob
violence of that week, critics have pointed to particular sentences and
paragraphs that seemed to excuse the rioters. An example from the Journal's
first editorial deplored the lawlessness of the rioters, but also advocated "...
prompt, stern and unhampered legal justice against offenders of the class of
murderers and violators of female chastity."

History has been harsh regarding the roles of both the Register and Journal -
direct ancestors of today's State Journal-Register - in their coverage and
opinions on the riot. A famous article for a national magazine, The Independent,
written by William Walling just a few weeks after the riot, is the source of
that opinion for some. But there are problems with Walling's story as well.

In his article, Walling makes reference to an inflammatory story printed in "the
evening paper" three days after the riots began. The story, Walling writes, was
headlined, "Negro Family Leaves City When Ordered," and Walling quotes the story
as stating that the family was "obnoxious" anyway and agreed with their being
forced to leave.

But the story apparently was from one of the other evening newspapers published
in Springfield in 1908 (there were about 15 daily, weekly and monthly local
newspapers at the time), because it did not appear in either the Journal or the
Register.

Walling also refers specifically to an editorial in The Journal that seemed to
excuse the actions of the mob as the only recourse for frustrated whites in
Springfield. The tenor of the editorials in both the Register and Journal was
that the cause of the riot was racial tension that had been building due to
alleged lax enforcement of law and order in Springfield.

The Journal's first editorial on the subject said the riots probably were
inevitable, due to lackadaisical law enforcement, and had been predicted in
Springfield for decades. The Register printed that thought on the same day,
Sunday, stating that the prevailing racial tension only needed a spark to ignite
it and that the spark was the assault of Mabel Hallam.

But both newspapers went on to condemn the mob violence in their editorials that
day, as they did in subsequent editorials, some of which praised Gov. Charles
Dineen and other law enforcement officials for their actions to restore peace.
Both papers called for strict punishment of the mob leaders.

The editorial opinions of both newspapers in 1908 continued to be printed on
pages 3 or 4, just under the newspapers' mastheads, as they had been for years.
Those pieces were not specifically labeled as editorials as they are today, but
it is clear that is what they were.

The Journal's first editorial on the riots appeared in Sunday's newspaper, along
with its first photographs of the destruction and, considering what had
happened, an oddly inappropriate photograph of a smiling Mabel Hallam.

Sunday's State Journal editorial explained that the newspaper had "forborne
entering into any discussion of the incidents of the last few days and the facts
precedent which might, at this time, further inflame, prejudice and further
complicate the situation."

The Register's news coverage on Saturday began with this paragraph: "Mob law,
implacable, inexorable, with justice as its excuse and basing its depredations
upon the theory that might makes right, held Springfield in its grasp all night
last night while a great mob of men, thirsting for revenge for the brutal
assault on Mrs. Hallem (sic) ... stoned the troops called out to resist them,
defied police and sheriff's deputies ..."

Both newspapers were extremely thorough in their reporting, including printing
verbatim statements of many of the principal players in the riot, including
Hallam, which allowed individuals to tell their stories in their own words. Long
lists of the dead and injured, with details of how each was killed or injured,
were printed.

Both papers printed excerpts from editorials on the riots from other newspapers,
all of which were stunned at what had happened and were critical of Springfield.

After order had been restored, the Register, in particular, was
self-congratulatory regarding its coverage of the riots.

"It is unnecessary for the State Register to call attention to the complete and
perfect manner in which it told the story in detail and with accuracy from every
point..." the paper wrote of itself. "From a mechanical standpoint, the edition
was perfect, the headlines and the stories being arranged in such manner as to
enable the reader to grasp without any trouble all the details in connection
therewith."

The Register also boasted that no one in Springfield was able to censor it while
its reporters went about the job of reporting on the riots. The paper ratcheted
up its daily press run from 14,000 to 25,000 at the height of the carnage.

The State Journal refrained from patting itself on the back. It succinctly added
up the toll of several days of rioting in one account headlined, "The Situation
Epitomized."

It read: "Two Negroes lynched. Three white men dead from wounds received during
riots. Three more whites dying. Seventy-seven others more or less seriously
injured. Property valued at $120,000 destroyed. Business suspended at sunset.
Four thousand militiamen enforcing order with bayonets and ball cartridges. One
hundred homeless blacks under military protection in the state armory. One woman
and thirty men under arrest on charges of murder and rioting. State's Attorney
Hatch preparing to ask for a special grand jury to begin immediate inquiry and
prosecution of participants in riots."

One hundred seven indictments came out of the rioting, but there was only one
conviction - for theft; a reform candidate was elected the next mayor; and the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was formed as a
result of the city's riots.

Two weeks after the alleged assault, Mabel Hallam told authorities that
Richardson was not the man who attacked her and gave them the description of
another black man. Later, she confessed to a special grand jury that she had not
been attacked by a black man at all, but had been with her white lover.
Richardson was freed from jail.

And there is no evidence that the blacks forced to flee Springfield by the
violence stayed away permanently. In fact, according to records examined by
Roberta Senechal, who wrote a 1990 book on the riots, the black population of
Springfield continued to grow.

"For Springfield's blacks," Senechal writes in her book, "The Sociogenesis of a
Race Riot ...," the riot was a major, but short-term, disruption of life and
work. When the city seemed reasonably secure, most blacks simply went home."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1. The 1908 Springfield race riot resulted in the destruction of 40
homes owned by black people; 15 black-owned businesses were destroyed.
2. Springfield's race riot left six people dead and inspired a national movement
that became the NAACP.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The streets of London;
As the dust settles

BYLINE: LEADERS

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 496 words


PEOPLE don't riot for no reason. But the reasons for the riots now rocking
London are not easy to discern. When street riots began to explode across the
Middle East some months ago they were seen as actions of oppressed societies
determined to shake off the shackles of oppressive regimes.

Other riots in Third World countries were seen as protests against the scarcity
or high price of food. Recent riots in Greece and Spain were expressions of
popular anger against economic austerity measures that were interpreted as
unfairly making ordinary people pay for the mistakes and misdeeds of financiers
and politicians. The 1981 riots in Brixton, London, were judged by an official
inquiry after the events to have been chiefly ignited by a long period of malign
and racist policing in poor black neighbourhoods. Three decades later the London
riots of 2011 are all the more disturbing because they appear so pointless and
inexplicable. Mobs of youths, in the regulation international uniform of jacket
and hoodie, are attacking people and property apparently at random, seemingly
motivated only by rage and criminal opportunism. Londoners debating the riots,
even as they continue, have their own opinions on the causes. To some it's the
product of lax policing and a generation gone astray. To others, perhaps more
thoughtful, it's at least partly the culmination of years of frustration for
young people locked out of the economy by poor education and lack of job
opportunities. Still more see it as a result of Britain's own post financial
crisis austerity drive, with a drastically reduced police force unable to match
the blindly angry mob. Perhaps these riots will never be fully explained. But
they do come at a time when, around the world, populations are losing confidence
in the integrity and capability of their political leaders and resentment is
rising against those who hold the financial levers. Material inequality is, in
many countries, at postwar highs. Education in much of the English-speaking
world has slumped, social programs are in retreat and the agenda in much of the
northern hemisphere is focused squarely on addressing financial crises that few
comprehend. As the dust settles DUST will always be a byproduct of coalmining,
as the Minerals Council readily admits. But techniques are available to reduce
dust and it is pleasing that Hunter mines are working with the NSW office of
environment and heritage to ensure no reasonable measures are overlooked. This
is particularly important in the Upper Hunter, where the scale of the industry's
expansion has turned dust into a major community issue. It is clear that not
every mine owner or manager shares the same level of concern about dust or the
same willingness to accommodate the community's wishes by spending the necessary
money to control the nuisance. In those circumstances the government's
imposition of legally binding dust-reduction conditions on the region's mines is
a welcome intervention.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Frances riots Lessons for U.S. immigration reform

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 724  words


It is disingenuous of a segment of American commentators to use the riots in
France as one more occasion for French-bashing and triumphalist economic theory
of the sort summed up in a Wall Street Journal headline Tuesday Why they riot in
Paris, but not in New York. Memories should not be so shallow. From the Atlanta
race riot of 1906 to the labor riots of the 1920s to the Los Angeles Zoot Suit
riots in 1943 (between servicemen and Mexican immigrants) to the ravaging race
riots of the 1960s in New York, Jersey City, Newark, Chicago, San Francisco,
Philadelphia, Detroit and several other major cities, to the New York City
blackout riot of 1977 (when the citys electricity blew out) to the Miami and
Tampa riots of 1989 and the Los Angeles riots of 1992 and thats just a selective
list its been a century of riots. Theres no room for self-righteousness or
gloating. Theres plenty of room for learning from French errors and remembering
what helped diminish the risk of civil insurrections at home. Admittedly, the
French have only themselves to blame for the violence in their streets. Without
excusing a single act of civil disturbance, its clear that Frances relationship
with its largely Arab and North African immigrants is a miserable failure
wrought by years of indifference, segregation and blind eyes to immigrants
economic and social disaffection from French society. Back in the 1950s and
1960s, when France was enjoying its share of Europes economic miracle,
immigrants were invited in, especially from former colonies, and given work the
French didnt want to do. But they were never welcomed into French society as
equal members of French culture and politics. The immigrant experience in France
was similar to the black experience in the United States, up to and including a
legacy of slavery: The French can always say that they never had slavery within
their borders, but they only abolished slavery in some of their colonies five
years before the United States did in the South. The 1970s brought an economic
slowdown, but not a concurrent slow-down in immigration from the Middle East and
Africa. Immigrants piled up in city suburbs, Paris northeast banlieu especially
projects writ large, and as architecturally grim concrete jungles. Warnings of a
social time-bomb began spreading, provoking what the French do very well: talk,
books, conferences, promises. In 1995, the French-born filmmaker Mathieu
Kassovitz released a movie called Hate (La haine), depicting suburbs of
violence, drugs, sex and desperation. He closed the movie with the story of the
man falling from a high-rise and thinking, half-way down, that all is well. Last
month, the body hit the pavement. Immigrants it brought here in chains aside,
Americas immigrant experience is far more hopeful, not least because this is a
nation of immigrants. Its never been perfect. Riots here have had the same roots
as those in France: When swaths of the population feel excluded, they eventually
rebel. The acts may be inexcusable. The causes should never so easily be judged,
or dismissed. The relative calm since the 1970s may be deceptive. Immigrants
continue to pour in, and for those with a measure of affluence, assimilation
continues to be easiest. But America continues to ignore its biggest immigration
problem pretty much the way the French did theirs. The United States
acknowledges that there are now up to 10 million illegal immigrants in the
country, mostly from Mexico and Latin America, but does nothing about it. In a
vast country with long borders, the problem is more diffuse. But no one
traveling along the southern border with Mexico can call the culture of
improvised ghetto towns (colonias) on the American side of the border either a
minor or a diffuse problem. There, too, time-bombs are ticking. President Bushs
proposed solution is a guest-worker program giving illegal immigrants a measure
of recognition, but with a built-in time limit on U.S. residency. Thats not a
program built around integration. Its a repeat of the French method of the 1950s
and 1960s. Theresult likely wont be dissimilar from the one unfolding in France
today. Immigration has been Americas saving grace because of the emphasis on
integration and opportunity. It will remain a saving grace only if that emphasis
tags along this century, as it did the last two.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Uncaptioned photo of rioter

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I would have taken part in many historical riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 389 words


AH, fame at last! A mention in Neil White's column.

Mr White claims that England's history of riots shows that we are not now a
green and pleasant land.

Of course, England like all other countries has a turbulent history. But that
does not take away from the fact that, generally speaking, we now live in such a
land, except perhaps for some inner city areas.

There is a difference between a riot with mindless criminality and an uprising
which has a real reason. Modern examples are in Egypt, Libya and Syria.

Mr White mentions the following "riots" in England: May Day Riots in 1517, the
Bawdy House Riots in 1668, the Gordon Riots of 1780, the Luddites in
Nottinghamshire and the Luton Peace Day Riots in 1919.

As Mr White puts it, the first was a riot on May Day 1517 but really it was an
uprising of poverty stricken English folk against wealthy foreign merchants and
bankers flaunting their wealth. Yes, it was an uprising against foreigners, not
an excuse for mindless criminality. The 1668 Bawdy House uprisings were
conducted by young men who had a ritual of attacking brothels on Shrove
Tuesdays. These acts were described in some of the popular literature of the
time as "a sign of the virtue of young Londoners".

This was, again, not a riot without a cause.

The infamous Gordon Riots of 1780 were when thousands of Protestants rioted
against the laws to give more freedom to Catholics.

It does seem as if this was an excuse for looting and general rioting.

The Luddite uprising in Nottinghamshire was brought about by the Industrial
Revolution. Many textile artisans were being left without work by mechanised
looms. The Luddites smashed many of the mechanical looms and who could blame
them? After the end of the Great War, many servicemen came home to find no work,
many were disabled and the land fit for heroes did not exist.

In Luton, they really had their noses rubbed in it when they saw the Mayor and
other dignitaries, who had not been to war, spending vast sums of money on a
peace celebration while they faced poverty. As a result there was an uprising of
ex-servicemen. Yes, they did some looting - for food and things they really
needed.

Neil White suggested I might like to have been around for the 1517 uprising.

In fact, I would have happily taken part in any of them, apart from the Gordon
Riots.

Granville V Stone Swanwick

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

DEBATE LOOKS FOR ANSWERS TO CITY RIOTS

BYLINE: Vicky Farncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 326 words


HUNDREDS of students and community activists gave up their Saturday to discuss
what could be learned from the Birmingham riots.

The event, 'After the Riots: Analysis and Debate' took place in a lecture
theatre at the Birmingham Midland Institute, in Margaret Street, Birmingham.

Speaker Ajmal Hussain, a research associate from Aston University, said he was
delighted by the turnout. "There's been quite a diverse crowd," he said. "It
just goes to show the appetite for wanting to know what was behind the riots,
particularly as there hasn't been any appropriate response from the Government."

Amjal's speech focused on the gaps between public figures and the communities
they represent, now and before the riots.

"People have been looking to their politicians for answers. Following the
Handsworth riots there were three separate inquiries. This time there's been
nothing," he said. "It's been brushed under the carpet."

Malcolm James, from the London School of Economics, gave a talk based on his
experiences working with young people in deprived areas of London.

"When you understand their feelings of deprivation and marginalisation, then you
understand why they took part in the riots," he said.

Among those listening to the debate was University of Birmingham student Malia
Bouattia, aged 23, of Edgbaston. She said she had been initially pleased by the
riots as it showed people were making a stand against racial injustice.

"I thought it was good that people were being heard," she said. "I came here
today because I was interested in hearing more about why there has been no civil
response."

Student Leander Jones, aged 21, was keen to argue that the riots were not
mindless violence but the result of poor social policy.

"The 1981 riots took place in exactly the same areas," he said. "I think that's
conclusive evidence that there are underlying factors causing them."

The event was organised by the British Sociological Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Trouble: The Orange shop on New Street is looted during the riots.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

Leading Article: Urban riots: Thirty years after Brixton

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 667 words


Three days on, with youths skirmishing with police in Lewisham and attacking
businesses in Hackney late yesterday, it is clear that Britain, and particularly
London, is experiencing some of its most serious and most destructive urban
violence since the Brixton and Toxteth riots of 1981. Thirty years on, some of
the echoes of those traumatic earlier events are very strong: riots taking place
against the backdrop of a royal wedding and an economic downturn; riots in some
of the same locations, even in some cases the same streets; riots repeating many
of the same patterns of events - including the looting of clothes and
televisions - and all of it resulting in many of the same public and political
responses. Some things, though, are different.

One of these, much debated over the past 24 hours, is the role of technology.
There was much speculation, back in 1981, about secret organisers pulling the
strings of copycat riots. Almost all of those allegations - those were the days
before mobile phones - proved to be as baseless as the earlier claims that
French secret agents were behind the Gordon riots of 1780 (in which 285
Londoners were shot dead) or that 19th-century outbreaks of rural rick-burning
were masterminded by "distant and foreign incendiaries". This time, there is no
lack of anecdotal evidence about the use of social networks and BlackBerry
Messenger to focus and co-ordinate some of the rioting. It would be astonishing
if there was no such role. But it is dangerous merely to dub these the BBM riots
and leave it at that. Rioting should not be condoned, much less romanticised.
But it tends to represent something more than a conspiracy. Experience teaches
that even rioting needs to be treated as chosen and explicable conduct - even
when it is indisputably wrong, as now.

There is, though, an important difference between 1981 and 2011. Thirty years
ago, Lord Scarman's landmark report concluded that the Brixton riots were
"essentially an outburst of anger and resentment by young black people against
the police". The evidence for that conclusion was overwhelming. Thirty years
ago, London's police had provided repeated provocation for concern and anger.
Much policing of that era was too aggressive, too high-handed, based on crude
and often racist stereotypes, and lacked any convincing accountability, either
strategically or for individual abuses.

It would be reckless to pretend that the latest riots owe nothing to bad
policing as well as bad people. The circumstances of the shooting of Mark Duggan
in Tottenham, the official response (or lack of it) to a protest against his
killing, and the local backdrop to these events, must be fully examined before a
final judgment is made. Moreover, police use of guns will always run the risk of
lethal abuse. But it is also clear that there have been major changes, almost
all of them for the better, in the policing of London and of black communities,
in the years since Scarman. Police training, behaviour, leadership, methods and
accountability have all been qualitatively improved. Tottenham is also an
improved place in countless ways.

Today's rioting has set that all back, in heartbreaking destructive individual
and community ways. Yet the riots of 2011, like those of 1981, still have to be
understood, though not in any way excused or justified, so that they can be
overcome. The riots are a product of the lives which the rioters choose or feel
constrained to live. Blaming the riots on individual wickedness, conspiracies or
on government spending cuts is too glib for such complex issues, though they
cannot be dismissed altogether even so. Both conspiracy and deprivation are part
of the complex and grim story, as is the cult of violence, especially guns, and
a rage against exclusion from consumerist fulfilment. A new Scarman would no
longer be able to explain these riots as an outburst of resentment against the
police. But they are an outburst of resentment and a mark of manifold failure
all the same.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

'Awfully busy' Narendra Modi tried his best to save 2002 Gujarat riot victims:
SIT

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 349 words


AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) has done
much more than just giving a clean chit to Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi
on allegations of his involvement in the 2002 riots.

Not only does the report, submitted by SIT chairman RK Raghavan, exonerate Modi
from the criminal charge of conspiracy and facilitating riots, it goes an extra
mile to explain the efforts of an "awfully busy" Modi to protect the riot
-affected and offer them relief and rehabilitation.

Experts say the closure report is very different in spirit than the first report
submitted by SIT member AK Malhotra, who had questioned Modi's actions on
several counts including allegedly deputing cabinet ministers in police control
rooms and his negligence towards the riot-affected. Raghavan's report claims
Modi visited Gulbarg Society and Naroda Patia, which witnessed two of the worst
massacres during the riots, and relief camps on March 5 and 6, 2002.

Stating that the Army was called in well in time, the report further says, "The
CM was awfully busy with the steps to control the law and order situation,
providing medical treatment to the riot victims, their rehabilitation, giving
ex-gratia payment to the riot affected, NGO relief camps and with the payment of
compensation for destruction of properties during the riots, and also with his
efforts to restore peace and normalcy in the state."

The closure report admits that the state government was wrong in not banning the
BJP-supported VHP bandh on February 28, 2002, but in the same breath adds it
doesn't amount to conspiracy. On charges of Modi issuing illegal instructions to
allow Hindus to vent their anger, the SIT states, "The chief minister emphasized
that miscreants (in the train carnage case) should be apprehended and not
allowed to escape. He was also concerned about the number of causalities in the
incident. The CM gave directions that steps should be taken not to delay medical
help for passengers and to impose curfew to avoid any untoward incident, Godhra
being a sensitive place."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Panel Seeks Clearer View Of 1921 Tulsa Race Riot

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Feb. 20


Nearly 78 years after one of the deadliest racial confrontations in the nation's
history, a multiracial commission of citizens and historians is trying to
determine how many people really were killed in the Tulsa race riot and whether
survivors are entitled to reparations.

The 11-member Tulsa Race Riot Commission, created by the Oklahoma Legislature in
1997, is even looking for mass graves where the bodies of dozens of blacks who
may have been killed in the riot on June 1, 1921, were dumped.

"We were suspicious of the official figures of the time," said Bob Blackburn,
chairman of the commission and deputy executive director of the Oklahoma
Historical Society. "We also wanted to come up with a portrait of what north
Tulsa looked like before the riot."

The exact number of people killed in the riot, which destroyed a 30-square-block
area of north Tulsa known as Greenwood, a primarily black neighborhood, was
never determined. Newspaper accounts at the time varied, with some reporting as
many as 76 dead. But some historians, citing survivors' accounts, have put the
figure as high as 300.

The riot was touched off after a black shoeshine man was arrested after a white
girl said he tried to assault her in an elevator. The man was eventually cleared
and all charges were dropped, but not before a mob of armed white men showed up
at the Tulsa County Courthouse threatening a lynching.

That prompted the city's black residents to take up arms and head for the jail.
A scuffle led to gunfire, and firebombings and shootings went on for a day
before the Oklahoma National Guard arrived.

Using old census records, mortgage notes, city directories, building permits and
other official documents, the commission is developing a data base to try to
reconstruct north Tulsa on paper and determine who owned the bombed property and
what it was worth.

Mr. Blackburn said the commission had found that many more whites owned property
in north Tulsa than was initially thought. And, like their black counterparts,
they received no compensation after their property was destroyed. Still, the
commission's most controversial work has been in trying to provide a more
accurate death toll.

The commission has hired archeologists and forensic pathologists to assist in
the search for mass graves.

Scott Ellsworth, a former historian at the Smithsonian Institution and author of
"Death in a Promised Land: The Tulsa Race Riot of 1921," is one of the advisers
to the commission. The historian John Hope Franklin, whose father lost his home
in the riot, is also an adviser to the commission. Mr. Franklin headed the
advisory board to the President's Initiative on Race last year.

Mr. Ellsworth said the commission had examined records from a defunct funeral
home showing the city was billed for the burial of 30 people who died in the
riot and who had not been identified as riot victims.

He also said that while searching a city-owned cemetery for mass graves, the
commission found two headstones with no names on them dated June 1, 1921. He
said the commission thought these graves to be those of previously unidentified
riot victims, most likely black.

And there were numerous accounts of bodies being dumped into the Arkansas River,
he said.

"This may well be the worst incident of racial violence in American history,"
Mr. Ellsworth said of the Tulsa riot. He said it was quite likely that at least
300 people were killed.

In addition to the death toll, the commission hopes to answer a number of other
questions, many of them grounded in local lore. Blacks here have long maintained
that whites used airplanes to bomb buildings in north Tulsa. The commission
hopes to find records showing whether any Tulsa residents owned airplanes in
1921, and where they were based.

But the commission's hardest job may be to come: how to determine who is
eligible for reparations and what those reparations should be.

Since the beginning, many blacks have accused the city authorities of turning a
blind eye to the destruction, and the National Guard of stepping in too late.
Some say that if that is found to be true, the city and the state may be held
accountable.

The commission is financed through a $50,000 grant from the Oklahoma Historical
Society; the money is being used to pay the expenses of experts and advisers.

Although the commission thought at first that only a handful of riot survivors
were still living, it now says that more than 30 could be alive.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Revisiting riots;
One year after Muzaffarnagar riots, politicians continue to play the dangerous
game of fanning communal tension in the interest of electoral gains

BYLINE: Edit

LENGTH: 627  words


One year after Muzaffarnagar riots, politicians continue to play the dangerous
game of fanning communal tension in the interest of electoral gains

Riots leave scars with their own stories. Despite the telling and retelling of
these terrifying narratives, incidents of violence erupt regularly across India,
particularly in North India. The lives of the riot-affected hardly ever recover
from the violent disruption. Renewal of communal harmony continues to be as
challenging as the task of transforming cynical politicians aiding and abetting
the spiral of violence in 21st century India.

The depressing picture one year after the Muzaffarnagar riots, which left 65
people dead and over 60,000 displaced, is generic to all riots. The most tragic
part of this oft-repeated narrative: not only do the protagonists not feel
remorse or the urge to atone for their crimes, but the state's continued failure
to punish the guilty further emboldens the perpetrators to continue leveraging
riots as an electoral project.

Muzaffarnagar is a good example. Most of the riot accused are still roaming free
- some among them like the BJP MLA Sangeet Som - have even been given Z+
security cover. Their lives violently disrupted one year ago, the victims, still
await justice and rehabilitation. Neither of the two, however,  seems to be on
the agenda of the political classes; whether in power or in opposition. The
discourse around communal violence, then and now, remains sterile and yields
little hope of a new beginning to break the cycle of cynical politics. Neither
the past, nor the present has compelled politicians across the ideological
spectrum to seriously introspect about the cost of indulging in electoral
machinations centred on communal lines.

Taking place during the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections, the Muzaffarnagar
riots drove a deep wedge between communities not just in Western Uttar Pradesh,
but across the 82-member electorally lucrative state. Pitted against each other,
the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) used the campaign
to further deepen social polarisation. The BJP even fielded two of the riot
-accused as party candidates. Three months down the line, political equations
have drastically changed at the Centre but the parties on both sides continue to
play the dangerous communal game of divide and rule. With a resurgent BJP at the
helm of affairs, outfits of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) are feeding
subterranean tensions in the region.

In Muzaffarnagar's Shamli area an increasing number of Muslims, fearful of
further communal repercussions,  are selling their properties to Jat neighbours
at rates far below the market price. According to news reports, in the Kankra
village, which saw eight murders and several riot-related cases, the majority of
Muslims have sold their homes to Jats. A large number of Muslim families
continue to stay in relief camps, close to Muslim-dominated villages. As always,
the Muzaffarnagar riots have taken the heaviest toll on girls and women. Pulled
out of schools by their anxious parents, these girls are now forced to while
away their time at home.

But political parties - who can actually turn the situation around if they want
to - are impervious to any such obligation. Even worse, the BJP and the SP are
loath to jettison the communal card which they consider to be an effective
electoral instrument. Nothing perhaps could be more revealing of this mindset
than the BJP's decision to field the communally controversial MP Yogi Adityanath
as its speaker in the recent Lok Sabha debate on communal riots. The future
ahead of us appears bleak unless the political class abandons divisive
strategies, lock, stock and barrel.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              March 7, 1994 Monday
                                  Late Edition

POLICE MOVE ON DRAG RIOT

BYLINE: NICOLE TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 303 words


About 1,500 people lining both sides of the Princes Highway at Tempe fled last
night as police officers in riot gear moved into the car park of a takeaway
restaurant.

The unrest follows last Sunday's riot, in which three 20-year-old men were
arrested and five police officers were injured at a gathering of drag-race
drivers near Denos Diner.

Last night, youths threw glass bottles, bricks and stones at passing cars before
the riot police moved in.

A number of police cars were damaged - some had smashed windscreens - but police
did not know late last night if any arrests had taken place.

At 10 pm, a line of nearly 20 police officers in riot gear - with shields,
batons, leg guards and face-masks - moved up the highway and converged on the
diner, followed by at least three police dog-handlers.

The crowd began to panic as the line of riot police appeared and hundreds of
young people ran up the highway.

Owners of more than a dozen cars parked outside the diner drove off within
minutes, and what appeared to be undercover police officers in plain clothes
began taking people out of the crowds in armlocks.

Just before 10.30 pm, a second wave of police - this time 50 uniformed officers
- came up from south of the diner.

In all, 120 police officers were involved in the operation, called Safer Streets
II. A police spokesman said last night: "There have been complaints of dangerous
driving down here and unruly, unlawful behaviour."

The co-owner of Denos Diner, Mr Deniz Sinmaz, said: "The kids have nowhere to go
and this is where they have ended up."

Mr Sinmaz was forced to close his diner at 10 pm after an order by the Land and
Environment Court on Friday.

Marrickville Council alleged in court that the owners of Denos Diner had
breached the approved trading hours of closing at midnight on Saturday and 10 pm
on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Riot police ready to control the crowd at Tempe last night,
after hundreds of youths gathered and some threw missiles at passing cars.
Picture by STEVE CHRISTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

SIT to probe anti-Sikh riots, says AAP Govt

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- Delhi Government today decided on a probe by a Special
Investigation Team into the 1984 anti- Sikh riots here, two days after Congress
vice-president Rahul Gandhi said some of the partymen were probably involved in
the violence but were punished.

The politically sensitive decision to form the SIT to investigate the riots
which left around 3000 Sikhs dead following the assassination of the then prime
minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 may create trouble in the
relationship between AAP and Congress which has been providing outside support
to Kejriwal dispensation.

But the move was welcomed by riot victims with one of their prominent lawyers
saying it gave them a "ray of hope".

"Government is going to form a SIT to probe the 1984 riots. The modalities of
the probe will be discussed at a cabinet meeting on Friday. Lt Governor Najeeb
Jung has in-principle agreed to the proposal to appoint the SIT," PWD Minister
Manish Sisodia told reporters.

Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal discussed the issue with
Jung.

To a query on effectiveness of SIT as the riots had taken place nearly 30 years
back, Sisodia said "honest efforts will definitely yield results".

Two days back, in an interview to a TV channel, Gandhi had admitted that "some
Congress men were probably involved in 1984 anti-Sikh riots and they have been
punished for it".

Gandhi had insisted that the Congress government in 1984 "was not aiding and
abetting the riots" but had tried to stop the violence.

Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar are facing allegations of
involvement in riots after Indira Gandhi was assassinated on October 31, 1984.

Claiming that effective investigation into the anti- Sikh riots was part of
AAP's agenda, Sisodia said the party had held a daylong fast at Jantar Mantar to
express solidarity with the victims.

Senior lawyer HS Phoolka, who joined AAP recently, said, "The decision of
government to form SIT has given a ray of hope to riot victims that justice
would be done to them."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday

'Anti-Sikh riots were worse than '02 violence'

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 228 words


AHMEDABAD: He had caught the attention of the nation when he hurled his shoe at
the then Union home minister P Chidambaram in April 2009 and brought the 1984
anti-Sikh riots back to public attention. Jarnail Singh, a
journalist-turned-activist, is now trying to get justice for the victims of the
Delhi riots by creating public consensus on the 1984 violence. On Sunday, he
will take out a token march on SG Road.

Comparing the Gujarat riots of 2002 with the 1984 riots, Singh told journalists
on Saturday that the latter were more horrific not only in the execution but
also in their aftermath. "In the case of the 2002 riots, the media raised
questions and the judiciary took note and set up an SIT which summoned even the
state chief minister. But nothing has happened for the victims of 1984 riots as
the government has always tried to belittle the issue. In Gujarat, a former
minster is behind bars but, in Delhi, the accused have become ministers and held
important positions again and again," he said. Singh has also penned a book on
aftermath of the anti-Sikh riots.

He said that several commissions were appointed to probe the riots that killed
over 3,000 Sikhs in a matter of three days but nothing has come out of them. No
action has been taken against the political heavyweights or the 72 policemen
named in various cases.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday

Make inquiry into Groenpunt riot - DA

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 268 words


A FULL and independent commission of inquiry was needed into a riot in which
Groenpunt Prison, in the Free State, was set alight, the DA said yesterday.


  "It is important that the root causes of the outbreak of this violence be
determined," said DA MP James Selfe.
 Prisoners refused to eat, then vandalised the facility in Deneysville on
Monday, setting alight cells and offices and injuring four warders.
  A total of 50 inmates were injured in police attempts to stop the riot.
  Prisoners had complained about the quality of food and some prison officials.
They wanted a unit head to be fired.
  "There needs to be a full and independent inquiry into the matter to establish
why this riot occurred, who were the instigators of the riot, and whether
grievances by inmates were allegedly the precipitate cause of the riot," Selfe
said.
 The DA would ask the correctional services department to present a report on
the matter to the portfolio committee when parliament resumed.
  Correctional Services Minister Sibusiso Ndebele said prison riots would not be
tolerated.
  "While the department of correctional services is fully committed to the
humane treatment of every detainee, acts of riots by inmates at correctional
centres are not acceptable and will be dealt with firmly," he said.
  Correctional Services acting national commissioner Nontsikilelo Jolingana said
the situation at Groenpunt was under control yesterday.
  Ndebele said the rehabilitation of offenders, as well as safe and orderly
custody were two sides of the same coin. "The balance between security, control
and justice is paramount." - Sapa

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

100 Years Later, A Painful Episode Is Observed at Last

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1139 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 23


Two years ago, Saudia Muwwakkil, the director of communications for the Martin
Luther King Jr. National Historic Site, invited community leaders to discuss how
to mark the 100th anniversary of a 1906 race riot in which mobs of whites
descended on the city's black residents.

The racial strife shut down Atlanta for four days and ended with the bodies of
black men hanging from trees and streetlights. But of those Ms. Muwwakkil
called, almost none had heard of it.

The riot, so contrary to Atlanta's conception of itself as the progressive,
racially harmonious capital of the New South, had been erased from the city's
consciousness, left out of timelines and textbooks.

Ms. Muwwakkil said she was not surprised by the response. ''I'm an Atlanta
native,'' she said, ''and I had never learned anything about the riot. It wasn't
taught.''

But in the months leading up to the 100th anniversary this weekend, there has
been a concerted effort to correct the city's amnesia, with walking tours,
public art, memorial services, numerous articles and three new books.
Genealogists have found a few descendants of those involved and located the
marked tombstone of one victim. Next year, the riot will become part of the
state's social studies curriculum.

The rioting began on Saturday, Sept. 22, 1906, with a surge of white hysteria
fomented by segregationist politicians and, more immediately, wildly exaggerated
newspaper articles of attacks on white women by black men. By the time the
violence ended, at least two dozen blacks had been killed and scores more
injured, some taken from their homes or pulled off streetcars.

Later accounts attributed the deaths of two whites to the rioting, one of them a
pregnant woman who died of a heart attack when she saw two black men torn apart
by bullets.

The violence made international headlines. But in Atlanta, newspapers played
down the events, reassuring readers that the ''Negroes'' had been ''disarmed and
dispersed.''

In recent years, the country has grappled with the racial episodes of its past
in myriad ways, including front-page apologies by newspapers, truth commissions
and criminal trials. If Atlanta is late in coming to the table, it is at least
partly because of the way the city sees itself: as a place that has always
offered an economic salve for racial tensions.

But the auditorium was full on Friday when Carole Merritt, a historian, stood
and said, ''The story of the riot has been too shameful to tell.''

Ms. Merritt was participating in a symposium at Georgia State University, just
blocks from the Five Points intersection downtown where the mob had first
gathered. She has written a book about the Herndon family, whose patriarch,
Alonzo Herndon, became Atlanta's first black millionaire. His Peachtree Street
barber shop, elegantly appointed in mahogany and marble, was one of the rioters'
first targets.

The city's self-image was under construction well before the riot. The black
educator Booker T. Washington had offered his ''Atlanta compromise,'' promising
that blacks and whites could work together without social integration. The white
newspaperman Henry W. Grady persuaded Northerners to invest in a tolerant,
industrial New South.

But in 1906, the city teemed with uneasy change, full of new residents who fit
into unfamiliar categories: successful black business owners, college-educated
blacks, the first generation of young black men not born into slavery. During
the riot, three black corpses were tossed at the base of a statue of Mr. Grady.

Though the episode is commonly called the Atlanta Race Riot, some say the name
is itself a whitewash, because the word riot implies unrest by a minority group.

''It's not a riot,'' said June Dobbs Butts, 78. ''No, it was a massacre.'' Ms.
Butts's father, John Wesley Dobbs, a civil rights leader, referred to the
episode as ''the Horror.''

That first night, whites shot, beat or stabbed to death any black man they could
catch. One victim was a lame bootblack, another a Western Union messenger. On
Sunday, with most blacks huddled inside their homes, groups of whites went into
black neighborhoods in search of more victims. Some blacks defended themselves
with guns, driving away their attackers. On Monday, a white party entered
Brownsville, a middle-class black neighborhood, and a shootout ensued, resulting
in the death of a white county police officer named James Heard.

If the violence contradicted the city's self-image, the response was pure
Atlanta. By Tuesday, white city officials had met with a hand-picked group of
black leaders in an effort to restore order, beginning a tradition of
interracial dialogue that became known as ''the Atlanta way.''

The process of forgetting began almost immediately. ''Atlanta is herself again,
business is restored, and the riot is forgotten,'' one newspaper headline
declared two days later.

But the riot shaped the city in powerful ways. Scores of middle-class blacks
left the city, and segregation grew more entrenched.

''Interracial cooperation was not equal,'' said Clarissa Myrick-Harris, a
historian and member of the Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot,
which planned this weekend's events. ''It was another way of maintaining and
asserting power over blacks.''

''The white elite chose who they were going to meet with in the black
community,'' Dr. Myrick-Harris said, and a class divide emerged. Whites blamed
the lower classes, both black and white, for the violence, and some black
leaders characterized blacks who fought back as threats.

The riot also weighed heavily against assimilationists like Booker T. Washington
in favor of more radical black thinkers like W. E. B. DuBois, who thought
federal intervention was needed to protect blacks.

''It disproved Washington's belief that if blacks worked hard, saved money and
became respectable, then whites would recognize their interest in protecting
them,'' said David Fort Godshalk, the author of a recent book about the riot.

The riot helped spur the formation of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and was cited as a life-changing experience for
people as diverse as Walter White, who became the head of that organization, and
Margaret Mitchell, the author of ''Gone With the Wind.''

And its remembrance has brought a measure of pride to people like Pat Walker
Bearden, who knew that her grandfather, Alexander Walker, had been in prison but
only recently learned that it was because he had fired as Officer Heard
approached his house. Mr. Walker had two small children and a pregnant wife. He
was convicted in the officer's death.

Ms. Bearden said that while she was working on her family genealogy, she began
to learn more about Mr. Walker from her father: ''Dad would always start out
saying, 'Papa didn't take no mess.' ''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: People gathered at the grave site of Martin Luther King Jr. on
Thursday as part of this weekend's commemoration of the 1906 race riot in
Atlanta. Above, descendants of those involved in the riot were on hand,
including Farrow Allen, left, and Pat Walker Bearden and Yolanda Walker Simmons,
who are sisters. (Photographs by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday

Riots a year on:What the police boss hopefuls think

BYLINE: The public go to the polls on November 15 to elect the powerful new post
of police and crime commissioner. Labour candidate Tony Lloyd and the Tories'
Michael Winstanley tell us their views at the end of a week of special reports
on last year's Manchester and Salford riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 835 words


What do you view as the main cause of the riots?

Manchester's riots were copy-cat but still different from those in London in
that they were opportunistic, not a response to injustice.

But the failure of police in London to quickly get on top of the situation gave
a green light to those in Manchester and other cities who saw a chance to loot
and profit.

The damage caused was massive both physical and reputational and the
overwhelming majority of Mancunians condemned the riots and the rioters.

But without making any excuse for those involved, a society which fails to help
the most needy, abandons the young to unemployment and cuts the social support
which keeps us together, risks creating a minority which will ignore all moral
and social boundaries.

How would you rate GMP's response to the riots?

Police in London failed to respond properly to legitimate concern after the
death of Mark Duggan and then failed to get numbers on the streets quickly
enough to control the situation.

This took police away from Manchester. People asked if intelligence through
social media and the exclusion of people coming into the city centre could have
made a difference. But the actions of the individual police officers, putting
personal safety at risk, deserved all our thanks and praise.

Equally the very rapid detection by the police of those involved and getting
them into court quickly gave a very important signal riot and you will face
punishment.

Do you think there could be a repeat of the riots in Greater Manchester?

We all hope not and some things did help. The quick police response in bringing
people to court gave a powerful signal as did the almost unanimous criticism by
people across Manchester of the rioters.

The underlying problems though of too many of our (young) people facing
long-term unemployment, withdrawal of support for education and the cuts in
support programmes for vulnerable families are stupid and give the wrong
message.

What would be the most important single factor in preventing a repeat?

In the short-term there has got to be a recognition that police numbers in a
riot do matter. 15,000 police jobs are to go nationwide. 15,000 police were
needed to bring London's riots under control. It's not complicated to recognise
that numbers matter, is it?

So Greater Manchester needs its police cuts reversed. That said, a government
which seems to have abandoned the young and those who are most needy has got to
change and underlying social issues have got to be back in focus.

What do you view as the main cause of the riots?

The riots here appeared to take many people by surprise. They took the form of
copycat activity that was happening in London and in other parts of the country
and were nothing less than criminality, for which there is simply no excuse.

It was clear that a criminal minority were opportunistic and decided to exploit
the situation for their own ends, causing misery and suffering to many innocent
people. Whatever the perceived problems were, the individuals that took to the
streets of Manchester to take part in criminal activity chose to do so. There
can never be any justification for such action.

How would you rate GMP's response to the riots?

GMP was slightly taken aback by the speed in which rioters took to the streets
and appeared slightly hesitant in dealing with the situation.

However, following the initial hesitation GMP responded well and got the
situation under control fairly quickly. I was also impressed with how quickly
the police processed the offenders through the courts and how they were dealt
with. This was important in sending a clear message that this behaviour will not
be tolerated by the rest of society and that crime will never pay. I'm pleased
the government is reforming our courts to make them work more swiftly.

Do you think there could be a repeat of the riots in Greater Manchester?

It is very important that we never become complacent.

As witnessed last year things can change and escalate very quickly. The
prevention of this behaviour is something that we all have to work together on.
The police and councils can't do it on their own.

All agencies need to be involved in working with our communities identifying
difficult families and putting in actions that will help prevent problems.
Working with our young people and engaging with them is vital if we are to
convince everyone that they have a part to play in making our community a better
place to live.

What would be the most important single factor in preventing a repeat?

The response by the people of Manchester in cleaning up the city and
demonstrating that they wouldn't stand for this kind of behaviour sent out a
clear message to those involved.

The condemnation by the people of Manchester coupled with the knowledge that the
police will respond effectively and efficiently demonstrates this kind of
behaviour will not be tolerated. This should also be backed up with a criminal
justice system that deals with criminals quickly and that they receive sentences
without delay.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday

Riots a year on:What the police boss hopefuls think

BYLINE: The public go to the polls on November 15 to elect the powerful new post
of police and crime commissioner. Labour candidate Tony Lloyd and the Tories'
Michael Winstanley tell us their views at the end of a week of special reports
on last year's Manchester and Salford riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 835 words


What do you view as the main cause of the riots?

Manchester's riots were copy-cat but still different from those in London in
that they were opportunistic, not a response to injustice.

But the failure of police in London to quickly get on top of the situation gave
a green light to those in Manchester and other cities who saw a chance to loot
and profit.

The damage caused was massive both physical and reputational and the
overwhelming majority of Mancunians condemned the riots and the rioters.

But without making any excuse for those involved, a society which fails to help
the most needy, abandons the young to unemployment and cuts the social support
which keeps us together, risks creating a minority which will ignore all moral
and social boundaries.

How would you rate GMP's response to the riots?

Police in London failed to respond properly to legitimate concern after the
death of Mark Duggan and then failed to get numbers on the streets quickly
enough to control the situation.

This took police away from Manchester. People asked if intelligence through
social media and the exclusion of people coming into the city centre could have
made a difference. But the actions of the individual police officers, putting
personal safety at risk, deserved all our thanks and praise.

Equally the very rapid detection by the police of those involved and getting
them into court quickly gave a very important signal riot and you will face
punishment.

Do you think there could be a repeat of the riots in Greater Manchester?

We all hope not and some things did help. The quick police response in bringing
people to court gave a powerful signal as did the almost unanimous criticism by
people across Manchester of the rioters.

The underlying problems though of too many of our (young) people facing
long-term unemployment, withdrawal of support for education and the cuts in
support programmes for vulnerable families are stupid and give the wrong
message.

What would be the most important single factor in preventing a repeat?

In the short-term there has got to be a recognition that police numbers in a
riot do matter. 15,000 police jobs are to go nationwide. 15,000 police were
needed to bring London's riots under control. It's not complicated to recognise
that numbers matter, is it?

So Greater Manchester needs its police cuts reversed. That said, a government
which seems to have abandoned the young and those who are most needy has got to
change and underlying social issues have got to be back in focus.

What do you view as the main cause of the riots?

The riots here appeared to take many people by surprise. They took the form of
copycat activity that was happening in London and in other parts of the country
and were nothing less than criminality, for which there is simply no excuse.

It was clear that a criminal minority were opportunistic and decided to exploit
the situation for their own ends, causing misery and suffering to many innocent
people. Whatever the perceived problems were, the individuals that took to the
streets of Manchester to take part in criminal activity chose to do so. There
can never be any justification for such action.

How would you rate GMP's response to the riots?

GMP was slightly taken aback by the speed in which rioters took to the streets
and appeared slightly hesitant in dealing with the situation.

However, following the initial hesitation GMP responded well and got the
situation under control fairly quickly. I was also impressed with how quickly
the police processed the offenders through the courts and how they were dealt
with. This was important in sending a clear message that this behaviour will not
be tolerated by the rest of society and that crime will never pay. I'm pleased
the government is reforming our courts to make them work more swiftly.

Do you think there could be a repeat of the riots in Greater Manchester?

It is very important that we never become complacent.

As witnessed last year things can change and escalate very quickly. The
prevention of this behaviour is something that we all have to work together on.
The police and councils can't do it on their own.

All agencies need to be involved in working with our communities identifying
difficult families and putting in actions that will help prevent problems.
Working with our young people and engaging with them is vital if we are to
convince everyone that they have a part to play in making our community a better
place to live.

What would be the most important single factor in preventing a repeat?

The response by the people of Manchester in cleaning up the city and
demonstrating that they wouldn't stand for this kind of behaviour sent out a
clear message to those involved.

The condemnation by the people of Manchester coupled with the knowledge that the
police will respond effectively and efficiently demonstrates this kind of
behaviour will not be tolerated. This should also be backed up with a criminal
justice system that deals with criminals quickly and that they receive sentences
without delay.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

'Electric Daisy' Riot in Hollywood: Reactions From Around the Web

BYLINE: THR staff

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 445  words


A riot broke out at the world premiere of the Electric Daisy Carnival Experience
in Hollywood on Wednesday night, and reaction on the Web was almost
instantaneous.

According to Los Angeles' KTLA-TV, DJ Kaskade called for a "block party" outside
Grauman's Chinese Theatre. As a result, thousands of people showed up in
Hollywood; police were forced to shut down part of Hollywood Boulevard and then
donned riot gear once the crowd started fighting, throwing bottles and even
setting fire to a police car. Police also fired riot beanbags into the crowd.

After the riot broke out, the incident became a trending topic on Google, and
many people took to Twitter to share their thoughts.

Among them was DJ Kaskade, who is said to have started the incident with a tweet
earlier in the day about a "block party" he was setting up outside the theater.

STORY: Riot Breaks Out at 'Electric Daisy' Film Premiere in Hollywood

After the riot broke, he took to Twitter to urge people to leave the scene with
a slew of tweets, including:

-- EVERYONE CHILL NOW!!! The block party has officially been shut down! BUT THIS
IS TOO CRAZY AND WE NEED TO BE SAFE!

---EVERYONE NEEDS TO GO HOME NOW! I DON'T WANT THIS TO REFLECT BADLY ON EDM OR
WHAT WE ARE ABOUT. BE RESPECTFUL AND CHILL OUT!!!

--I AM REALLY CONCERNED FOR EVERYONES SAFETY AT THIS POINT! PLEASE RELAX

Here is a sample of other tweets posted Wednesday night:

Christian Tizya Wow a riot's happening on Hollywood Blvd over a film. Must be
good, or bad? Kirk Diedrich Electric Daisy Festival movie starts a dance riot in
Hollywood. West Hollywood is like, "Oh, no you di'n't!"

STORY: Electric Daisy Carnival's Las Vegas Debut Deemed a Success

Justin McGoldrick what a great drive home GaGaAGoGo Violent ravers! J. Cooper
ABSOLUTE LOW LIFE TRASH Dale W. Eisinger The sense of entitlement those on
Ecstasy have - worse than the GOP Francois And hip hop is the root of all evil?
"Riot Breaks Out at 'Electric Daisy' Film Premiere in Hollywood" Barb Never
heard of Electric Daisy Carnival until recent riot-LA for premiere

STORY: Electric Daisy Carnival Kicks Off: Is Las Vegas Becoming America's Answer
to Ibiza?

Alyse Michele so this is happening outside my apartment right now... Diamondave
Police fire nonlethal bean bags into rowdy Electric Daisy Carnival crowd ...
this my friends is not music but a sad joke!!! KillTheMic Woah: Riot Breaks Out
at 'Electric Daisy' Film Premiere in Hollywood Linda Gamboa Who would have
thought ravers were so unruly. What do you expect from people who wear furry
boots. Erik Goodrich Is this how raves are? KB "Electric Daisy" film premiere in
L.A. turns into a riot. Guess it's not just hockey fans. #canucks

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday
                                 First Edition

We're a weird mob but we're tolerant:look at our race riot history

BYLINE: Peter FitzSimons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 918 words


Race riots have shaped our history more than we care to admit, says Peter
FitzSimons, who is presenting a new television series on the subject.

Show me someone who says ''Australian history is dull,'' and I will show you
someone who hasn't got a clue. In fact, we have a fabulously vibrant,
extraordinarily colourful history - sometimes inspiring, often bloody, but
always fascinating - warts and all.

For the pundits were right, we really are a weird mob, and nowhere is that
weirdness more apparent than in our history of race riots.

Race riots? Who? Us? Australia?

In Sydney, the phrase ''race riots'' conjures up the disgraceful images of
Cronulla Beach in 2005, and many have the mistaken impression that our history
of such riots starts and finishes there, apart from the odd flare-up. But the
truth of it - and it is the foundation stone on which the whole series rests -
is that Cronulla was not an aberration, but simply the latest in a long series
of race riots we have had.

It starts with the rising minority Catholics and the ruling Protestants tearing
Melbourne apart in 1846, and appears once more with white miners going hard
after the Chinese ''invaders'' at Buckland River in 1857 and Lambing Flat in
1861. It continues with the returned soldiers in Brissie clashing with the
Russian Bolsheviks in 1919, and the Australian born miners hunting down Italian
and other Southern Europeans in Kalgoorlie in 1934 and burning down 80 of their
houses. It flares yet once more when the Italian migrants rise at Bonegilla in
1952, and when asylum seekers and protesters push down the fences at Woomera
Detention Centre in 2002, and once more for the road - specifically Eveleigh
Street - when Redfern police and Aboriginal residents fight throughout an entire
night in 2004.

Throughout, we Australians have shot at each other, thrown stones and insults,
knifed and clubbed each other, thrown Molotov cocktails, demonised particular
races and religions, and even sworn to wipe certain among us from the face of
the earth.

But here is the strange and wonderful thing. After each riot, there has been an
extraordinarily uniform response. That is, the broad mass of people reel in
horror, get their bearings, and then use the ugliness of the riot as a clear
sign of the direction we should not be heading henceforth.

On each occasion, decent Australia rises up, tells the rioters to pull their
bloody heads in, and race relations actually improve afterwards. Race riots are
one of the ways Australia reinvents itself. After the 1846 riots, The Age
thundered in an editorial that such clashes belonged to the ''old world, but
have no place in this, the new world''. The Brisbane Courier sounded exactly the
same theme after the returned soldiers went after the Bolsheviks in 1919. We
don't do that stuff in these parts. Pull your bloody heads in!

And they do.

Of all the journalistic exercises I have been involved in over the last 30
years, this has been the most intense, and one of the most illuminating. I have
loved travelling all over Australia, digging out the stories, and bringing them
to the screen through a variety of narratives, creative still-shots, old photos
and footage, all put together with commentary from historical experts and - from
the more recent riots - accounts from eyewitnesses and even participants. From
Broome to the Buckland River, from Brisbane to the Back 'Beyond, we travelled
all over the country - with 35 days of shooting with a first class camera crew -
driven hard all the way by the inspiring producer from Essential Media, Sally
Aitken.

In Sydney, the story is at its most inspiring at Redfern. Just a little over a
decade ago, after the death of young Aboriginal man Thomas ''TJ'' Hickey,
Eveleigh Street exploded, as police and a mob of enraged indigenous residents
went hard at each other throughout one appalling night where it was a miracle
no-one was killed. At dawn, both sides retreated to not only lick their many
wounds, but also to think about what had happened and why . . . and work out how
to reduce the friction.

These days, some problems remain, admittedly, but with a group of inspiring
Aboriginal and police leaders working closely together, Redfern has been
transformed - providing a model for the rest of the country on how things can be
turned around with engaged goodwill from all sides. As to the ugliness of what
happened at Cronulla Beach in December 2005 - where, whipped up by radio
rabble-rousers among others, the mob turned up in force, intent on attacking
Muslims - the enduring outcry against it has also been transformative. And I
don't just mean because Cronulla Beach is now a cosmopolitan delight.

Two weeks ago, after the murderous atrocities by a Muslim man at the Lindt Cafe,
there were fears of ''reprisal attacks,'' against the Muslim community as a
whole. A protest was even planned, precisely the kind of protest in our history
that has oft turned ugly and then into a full-blown riot.

But how many actually turned up at Martin Place for the protest? Four.

Just four sad souls, who were roundly booed by the mourners at Martin Place for
their trouble. That way lies madness. We've been there before. We don't want to
do that any more. The Great Australian Race Riot documents a part of our history
that is rarely discussed or examined, and I am proud of it.

I am, you are, we are Australian, and this, too, is part of our story/

The Great Australian Race Riot airs on Sunday, January 4, 11, and 18 on SBS One
at 8.30pm.

Twitter: @Peter_Fitz

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEVEN PHOTOS: A riot in Redfern in 2004 (above and left).Photos: Edwina
Pickles From left: A painting of the Eureka Stockade, a migrant riot at
Bonegilla in 1961, and a disturbance at the Woomera Detention Centre. Tensions
boiled over in Cronulla in December 2005 (above and right). Photos: Andrew
Meares, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     June 16, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Vancouver riots in past involved fewer people

BYLINE: VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; STANLEY CUP FINAL 1994; STANLEY CUP RIOT: AFTERMATH; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 508 words


Vancouver has seen rioting before, though never on the scale of this week's
disturbance following the Canucks' Stanley Cup loss to the New York Rangers.

* Last summer, police arrested 60 males for drunkenness, breach of the peace and
assault following a Punjabi concert in Vancouver. Three hundred of the 1,800
people, mostly males, attending the concert were ejected for drunkenness and
fighting in what was described as a "near-riot."

* A Rolling Stones riot in 1972 involved 200 youths who threw rocks the size of
footballs, firebombed a police car and put 13 police officers in hospital.

* The Gastown riot of August 1971 saw 38 people variously charged with causing a
disturbance, assaulting police officers and possession of dangerous weapons.

The riot began as a "smoke-in" by 1,200 young people protesting a police
crackdown on marijuana. Mounted police moved in with their riot sticks after the
crowd -- which included tourists, shop owners, members of the media and
protesters -- ignored an order to disperse.

Dozens were injured, prompting later claims of police brutality. In an effort to
improve community relations, Gastown merchants organized a peaceful "love-in"
the following weekend, which 20,000 attended. By drawing attention to the area,
it sparked Gastown's revitalization.

* A July 1969 melee at English Bay resulted in 10 late-night arrests after 300
youths became rowdy during the opening celebrations of the Vancouver Sea
Festival.

* Vancouver police arrested more than 300 screaming, bottle-throwing rioters on
the eve of the November 1966 Grey Cup game between the Saskatchewan Roughriders
and the Ottawa Rough Riders at Empire Stadium. Charges of drunkenness and
malicious damage were laid after windows were broken, street signs uprooted and
ornamental garbage cans ripped from their posts.

* Similarly, Vancouver police arrested 171 rioters after the Hamilton Tiger Cats
beat the B.C. Lions in the 1963 Grey Cup game at Empire Stadium.

* Roving gangs of youths threw eggs and firecrackers and set off false fire-box
and bank alarms as they battled police in the citywide Halloween riots of 1963
and 1962. Children as young as seven years were injured in the melees; police
made numerous arrests, mostly for vandalism.

* In 1935, the city's jobless gathered at the Hudson's Bay store, smashing
showcases and demanding work. The mob later moved on to Hastings and Carrall,
prompting then-mayor Gerry McGeer to read the Riot Act in Victory Square.

* Relief camp workers protested for jobs and food in an assembly on the Powell
Street grounds in 1912, prompting the city's second reading of the Riot Act.

* Vancouver's first recorded riot dates to 1905, when then-mayor R.A. Anderson
invoked the Riot Act to control an angry crowd protesting an attempt to build a
sawmill on Deadman's Island, just off Stanley Park.

Once a Salish burial ground and later a cemetery for Vancouver's pioneers, the
island has for the past 50 years been the site of the HMCS Discovery naval
training base.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GASTOWN RIOT: mounted police run through crowd in '71

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Broken Britain: Broken record

BYLINE: Ann Czernik

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1028 words


If riots are the voices of the unheard, they've come over loud and clear. But
nothing we've heard from government will bring an end to the causes of unrest.
If anything, the promised eviction of council tenants, rough justice in
7/11-style courts and the deployment of armed officers in a shopping centre in
Manchester at the weekend are simply stoking the fire. Riots have been
misunderstood in the same terms for decades and reoccur within a few years.

Since 1981 there have been dozens of riots in Britain, ranging from the poll tax
riots, race riots and, more recently, student riots. The interpretation and
response to mass expressions of anger, frustration and despair from the media,
politicians or the public is like a broken record. Over and over again, we hear
the same phrases and the same message. Poor parenting, lone parenting, gang
culture, poor white trash, drug abuse, lawlessness and greed are named and
blamed. The message is simple. The government has no solutions. Riots are
presented as a symptom of a diseased, deviant minority that must be punished.
People were put in fear of their lives, some lost their livelihoods, many will
lose their liberty and, tragically, some have died. This has to be fixed and
fast - but it is social, not criminal justice that will bring stability and
safety to our streets. What is markedly different about recent events is that an
entire generation has formed an underclass independent of background, race or
national identity. This formation is based not only upon their current
circumstances but what they believe their future will be in the absence of
radical change. In 1981, Lambeth Council leader Ted Knight complained that the
police presence had provoked the riots. Margaret Thatcher responded by saying:
"What absolute nonsense and what appalling remarks. No-one should condone
violence. No-one should condone the events. They were criminal." Months later,
Lord Scarman's inquiry located the cause of the riots within a discourse of the
plight of ethnic communities. He viewed the riots as a consequence of the
complexities of the relationship between ethnic minorities and white British.
Racism, poverty and the fictional African-Caribbean family without fathers,
without discipline and without responsibility were posited as the roots of the
problem. It is impossible to separate Scarman's interpretation from the
rationale of colonialism and he excused oppressive police practices as an
inability to respond to difference, not institutionalised racism. Thirty years
later, David Cameron has proclaimed that riots are "criminality pure and simple
and there is absolutely no excuse for it ... It is simply preposterous for
anyone to suggest that people looting in Tottenham at the weekend, still less
three days later in Salford, were in any way doing so because of the death of
Mark Duggan." In every instance of violent urban unrest that has taken place in
Britain since 1981 three factors have been present - an oppressive police
presence, poverty and tensions arising from discrimination and deprivation. An
incident, in this case the death of Mark Duggan, finally ignites emotions and
produces a violent reaction with its own rules of engagement and inherent logic.
This is the pathology of riots. Much has been made of the Olympic hopeful, the
teaching assistant and the ballerina in the dock. Clearly a teaching assistant
earning £11,000 a year has nothing to complain about in a country where the
average wage is two-and-a-half times more than what he earns in a year. The
class of 2011 was created by the belief that, in or out of work, they have no
hope, no future and nothing left to lose. The experience of young people at the
hands of police during the demonstrations against tuition fees and cuts to EMA
bound this generation. The experience of young black men became the universal
experience of young working-class people. Race per se was not a factor in the
riots. Riots occur when a group of disadvantaged, oppressed people are motivated
by fury to reclaim the symbols and artefacts of the culture that has cast them
out. So where did this generation go to seek and destroy? The high street became
the theatre for their war with society. Cameron has made a grave error of
judgement when he said: "Young people stealing the flat-screen televisions or
burning shops - that wasn't about politics or protest. It was about theft."
Looting is not primarily motivated by greed or theft. It is social unrest and is
a feature of riots. Historically, looting is an ancient act of war. To plunder
the enemy's valued treasure is the reward of battle. To defile architecture and
objects of a civilisation is the means by which the victor obliterates all
traces of the enemy. In 2003 Geoff Hoon regarded Iraqi looters as "civilians
liberating those items that are in the charge of the regime by entering its
former facilities and secret organisations and redistributing that wealth among
the Iraqi people." He said: "I regard such behaviour as good practice." Looting
is a symbolic act whereby cultural values are reassigned, if only temporarily.
The class of 2011 made an audacious, bold statement - if you do not give us what
we want, we will come and take it. Looters mimicked the behaviour of shoppers by
selecting, displaying and parading their loot. Young women carefully packaged
their goods in branded carrier bags. This was a grotesque form of consumption
borne of the excesses of late neoliberalism. "I am, therefore I shop" - with or
without cash or credit. Of course this is theft, but in the context of riot,
looting must be interpreted as a meaningful social act. Riots are stripped of
social and political significance in the days that follow episodes of social
unrest. Discipline, punishment and silence scab over the surface but underneath
the poison of inequality festers. Governments condemn the drift into lawlessness
and disagree about the impact of poverty and social deprivation. It's easier to
punish rioters than it is to fix the nation. Far better to lock up all that
despair in our overcrowded prisons, out of sight and totally out of Cameron's
tiny mind. Until the next time.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                   February 4, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Communications problem blamed for riot bungles

BYLINE: JEFF LEE; VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 1240 words


The Vancouver police department's handling of the Stanley Cup riot was all a
communications problem, and no one officer was responsible for the way the riot
unfolded.

That's the way Chief Ray Canuel explained a 150-page review that cited numerous
deficiencies and criticisms in the way his department conducted itself on June
14, when rioters looted downtown stories in the wake of the Vancouver Canucks'
loss to the New York Rangers in the deciding game of the Cup final.

The report makes a case for more training, more equipment, better communications
and a regional emergency command centre.

But it doesn't identify anyone responsible for what it portrays as the systemic
failure of the department's operational plan.

When he released the report Friday, Canuel said it would serve no purpose to
blame individual officers because the problems could all be characterized as
communications failures.

He said no one was fired, demoted or criticized for problems identified in the
report, although four civil suits arising from the riot continue.

"No officer made any mistake," he said.

The riot and seizure of media photographs as evidence led to more than 300
charges against 100 people.

Mayor Philip Owen backed his chief of police, saying he has the utmost
confidence in Canuel and the department.

"I think the chief and his staff have come up with a very honest report, because
they are saying things that they have not said in public before," he said.

But he stopped short of pledging to provide the $ 1 million-plus the chief said
is needed to train officers properly in riot control.

Instead, he said the city continues to call for a $ 12 million regional
operations centre, which would be funded by the municipal, federal and
provincial governments. He said council had been lobbying since before the riot
for the centre, which would act as a central command post for the Lower Mainland
in times of crisis.

Asked where the buck stops in apportioning responsibility for the riot, Owen
said:

"Well, the buck stops with everybody. We know we need new communications
equipment. We know we need more training . . . . We're going to deal with that.
I'm not sure the buck stops with anybody."

The report, which Canuel said he didn't have to release publicly, is a frank
analysis and critique of the events leading up to the riot, which paralysed much
of the downtown and gave the city an international black eye.

It said officers didn't have the proper equipment or training in crowd control.
They couldn't communicate with their command centre, which had communications
and command problems of its own. In many cases, the riot control equipment they
did have was rotting and unusable; and, in many cases, officers were gassed
because they were separated from their colleagues.

The making of command decisions was "seriously impaired" because of a number of
factors, including unclear authority, poor communications and lack of
information.

The phone list used to call officers at home was 18 months out of date. The
officers who did respond couldn't be briefed adequately.

The operational plan designed for such emergencies lacked detailed planning or
contingency plans.

The regular duty officer, who was supposed to oversee police deployment
throughout the city, ended up inside the riot area and was not able to do his
primary job.

The police couldn't tell crowds to disperse because they didn't have a public
address system.

But the report also offers solutions to those criticisms, including better
training, new equipment, a revised command structure, and a new regional
communications centre.

It also backed up use of the ARWEN gun, which fires rubber bullets, as a crowd
control device. Ryan Michael Berntt, 19, was hit in the head with an ARWEN
bullet during the riot.

Canuel said it is clear from the report that many changes have to be made in the
way the police respond to potential crises.

"We have to correct something that hasn't been corrected in a long time," Canuel
said. "The failure was a lack of communications."

The city learned the hard way how to control riot situations, he said, citing
the peaceful outcome of the Grey Cup celebrations in November.

"The deployment [during the Grey Cup] was different because we learned from the
mistakes we made. We did not want a repeat of the Stanley Cup riot."

The police department's review is the last of several examinations prompted by
the riot.

In October, the B.C. Police Commission released its findings, including 32
recommendations similar to the Vancouver police report.

The city conducted a review and held public meetings aimed at changing the way
it deals with major events.

The RCMP, which provided an emergency response team during the riot, conducted
an internal investigation.

FAILURES AND POSSIBLE FIX-UPS

Here are some of key findings and recommendations of the Vancouver police review
of the Stanley Cup riot:

Findings:

* The operational plan designed to deal with such emergencies "was deficient in
specific details and tactical contingencies."

* The operational plan did not spell out detailed command responsibilities.
Because of a number of circumstances, "the making of command decisions was
seriously impaired."

* There were not enough police deployed on the streets early enough to prevent
the riot.

* Some equipment, such as gas masks, was so damaged or ineffective it was
unusable. Equipment was not deployed to officers in the field quickly enough.

* The phone list used to call out extra officers in emergencies was 18 months
old, and mobilization efforts lacked planning. There was no logistics system in
place.

* The crowd at Robson and Thurlow was not told to disperse or warned that tear
gas would be used. Police did not have a loudspeaker system.

* Lack of coordination between Vancouver police and the RCMP tactical troop
unnecessarily exposed people to chemical agents.

* The crowd control unit was not large enough to deploy in two places at once.

* Regular police officers had little or no training in crowd behavior, crowd
control techniques or crowd control equipment, placing some members at risk and
reducing the department's effectiveness.

* The communications system was overloaded, and officers wearing gas masks and
crowd control helmets couldn't hear what was being said over the din of the
crowd.

* The Vancouver police duty officer became involved in events within the riot
area, including assuming a command role, which "significantly restricted his
ability to monitor, assess and deploy resources in the area outside the downtown
core."

* The diversion of officers from four patrol districts left those areas in
critical shortage of personnel.

Recommendations:

* The operational plan should include detailed plans for major incidents.

* The plan should clearly define the command structure, levels of authority and
responsibilities of officers.

* Increase the size of the crowd control unit from 41 officers to 70.

* A regional operations centre should be built to accommodate all emergency
agencies involved in major incidents.

* Minimum numbers of police should be deployed at public and private events,
especially ones where liquor is sold.

* A traffic management plan should be created.

* Emergency call-out lists should be updated monthly.

* Buy or rent a public address system for riot control.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHIEF RAY CANUEL (93-4504)

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                              May 30, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Riot, Valkyries both winners in season finale; Riot win game against rivals but
Valkyries finish season in first place

BYLINE: Rob Vanstone, The Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 393 words


Both teams had something to celebrate after the Regina Riot and Saskatoon
Valkyries wrapped up their regular-season schedules Saturday.

The Riot enjoyed a victory - a 27-26 conquest of its provincial rival - and the
Valkyries derived satisfaction from securing first place in the Western Women's
Canadian Football League's Prairie Division.

"We're still in first, and that's all we really wanted,' Valkyries running back
Sam Matheson said after rushing for 137 yards and three first-half touchdowns.

The Riot and Valkyries finished with 3-1 records, with Saskatoon getting the nod
for first place on the basis of the points differential in their two
regular-season meetings.

After the Valkyries won 47-21 in Saskatoon on May 22, the Riot needed to win by
at least 27 on Saturday to claim top spot.

There was some disappointment about the lack of a lopsided victory but, as the
Riot's Morgan Turner put it, "a win's a win."

The Riot got the victory on the strength of a 21-yard field goal by Turner with
2:10 remaining in the fourth quarter. She split the uprights to give Regina,
which trailed 19-0 late in the second quarter, its first and only lead of the
game.

Regina had a chance to go ahead by more, but a three-yard touchdown run by
Celeste Schnell was called back due a holding penalty on Turner, who also plays
running back. Shortly thereafter, Turner delivered what proved to be the
game-winning kick.

It was a familiar scenario for Turner, whose clutch 13-yard field goal enabled
the Riot to defeat the visiting Valkyries 31-29 in the 2015 Prairie Conference
final. Regina went on to capture the WWCFL title, which Saskatoon had won the
previous four years.

The Riot and Valkyries will both play host to conference semifinals on June 12,
with the opponents to be determined.

On Saturday, Saskatoon quarterback Stacey Boldt threw for 150 yards, including a
52-yard TD pass to Kelsey Dick. The Valkyries were missing several players -
including quarterbacks Alex Eyolfson and Reed Thorstad - due to their
participation in a national flag football event.

The Riot relied on the run, with Carmen Agar rushing for 206 yards and Schnell
adding 70. Agar and Schnell had short touchdown runs. The Riot also scored on a
pass from Aimee Kowalski to Claire Dore.

rvanstone@postmedia.com twitter.com/robvanstone !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Bell; Regina Riot defensive back Inaya Haque, left, blocks
Saskatoon Valkyries running back Tori Giles at Mosaic Stadium on Saturday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver police unprepared for riot: Report; Faulty equipment, bad planning

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 754  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver police and city officials should have been better prepared for the
massive crowds that flooded downtown for Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final, an
independent review of the June 15 riot has concluded.

The review found a litany of problems that plagued police as they tried to
control the incendiary riot, from faulty radios that prevented transmission of a
key command, to the improper location of needed riot control gear, to a lack of
a regional public safety plan.

But the authors of the report, John Furlong and Douglas Keefe say that, on
balance, the lessons presented by the riot shouldn't prevent Vancouver from
holding large downtown public events in the future.

And, they say, they concluded Mayor Gregor Robertson played no part in directing
police planning or financial discussions, something he has maintained since the
riot broke out.

The report contained a few criticisms of how what was supposed to be a peaceful
family-oriented gathering to mark the final game between the Vancouver Canucks
and the Boston Bruins turned into a night of widespread looting, vandalism and
violence.

The report's authors said the riot, in which at least 60 businesses were looted
or vandalized, "was not beyond imagining" and could have been predicted hours
earlier given the rapidly changing atmosphere downtown.

The two men, aided by a team of public safety consultants, made 53
recommendations aimed at improving public safety, major event planning, the
control of alcohol and judicial outcomes from the riot.

The report also addresses one of the hot-button issues that emerged after the
riot: how many officers the Vancouver Police Department deployed on Game 7 day.

Although police Chief Jim Chu has long argued that number is secret for security
purposes, Furlong and Keefe said keeping it secret now is a moot point. They
said the original police plan called for 446 officers to be deployed. By the end
of the night, 928 were on the job.

But they said that initial number was more than adequate to cover the city's
needs and noted that when Chicago won the 2009 Stanley Cup, 450 officers and 20
horses policed a crowd of 1.2 million people.

"We conclude the number of police identified in VPD's plan was appropriate,
given the threat level," the report said.

Instead, they said the police department's operational plan did not identify
criteria that would automatically trigger changes in responses.

"For example, the VPD's plan should have required a report on the number of
people downtown beginning late in the morning and providing options for earlier
deployment," the report said.

The provincial government formed the Keefe-Furlong inquiry on June 28 in an
effort to determine how the riot occurred and what could be done to prevent such
occurrences in future. Keefe is a former Nova Scotia deputy attorney general and
career bureaucrat. Furlong is the former president and CEO of the Vancouver
Organizing Committee for the 2010 Winter Olympics. He was hired after he offered
his services to B.C. Premier Christy Clark.

Over the past two months Furlong and Keefe met with a number of politicians,
police and business groups.

The reviewers also examined the recommendation that came out of a similar review
into the 1994 Stanley Cup riot that occurred in Vancouver when the Canucks lost
a Stanley Cup Finals Game 7 to the New York Rangers.

There were some similarities between the two events, including criticism over a
lack of co-ordinated planning among police departments and the discovery that,
again, as in 1994, malfunctioning equipment played a part.

The report noted "command confusion" ensued in trying to quell the June 15 riot,
in part because the RCMP's tactical troops were equipped with a faulty Vancouver
police radio. As a result, one portion of the group did not hear a command to
suit up in riot gear, causing delay and confusion.

At the same time, the VPD put a cache of gear in a bad location that was later
overrun by rioters.

"On an ordinary night, it might have been a small problem, but on June 15 the
congestion turned it into a significant problem," said the report.

Images of the riots, violence and looting spread quickly around the world and
were a dark counterpoint to the joyful images of the 2010 Vancouver Olympics
just months before.

Police and municipal officials were quick to decry the riots as the work of
violent anarchists and malcontents, although video footage showed that many of
the rioters were disappointed Canucks fans who were caught up in the moment and
impetuously joined in the mayhem.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Clark, Reuters; John Furlong describes the contents of a report on
the 2011 NHL Stanley Cup riots released by him and Douglas Keefe, left, in
Vancouver on Thursday.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Political riots deadlier than communal ones: NCRB

BYLINE: Deeptiman Tiwary

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 334 words


NEW DELHI: More people get injured or killed in political riots than in communal
conflagration. According to latest data released by National Crime Records
Bureau (NCRB), in 2014, there were over 2,400 victims of political violence,
while 2000 people were injured or killed in communal riots.

According to the data, most communal incidents were reported from Jharkhand
(349) followed by Haryana (201). West Bengal and Tamil Nadu had over 100
incidents each while Maharashtra recorded 99 cases.

UP, which witnessed one of the worst communal riots in 2013, recorded only 51
cases last year but had maximum number of victims at 356. Maharashtra followed
UP closely with 355 victims followed by Jharkhand with 349 victims.

Caste clashes were the third biggest reason for conflicts with over 1,800 people
either getting injured or killed in riots on caste lines. Curiously, however,
conflicts of Dalits and tribals with upper caste resulted in far lesser injuries
and deaths as compared to other inter-caste conflicts.

According to the data, 507 people became victims of riots caused by clashes
between people belonging to scheduled castes and tribes and those not from the
category. On the other hand, 1,346 people became victims of other caste
conflicts.

Most conflicts between Dalits and non-Dalits were reported from Maharashtra with
147 riots and 183 victims. It was followed by UP with 66 cases and 101 victims.
Bihar, curiously, recorded no such cases.

Maharashtra again led the pack with 241 cases in other caste conflicts category
followed by Tamil Nadu with 182 such cases. UP and Bihar had just nine and six
such cases respectively.

In the category of all riots (including all categories), Bihar led the pack with
13,566 incidents and 16,810 victims despite recording very few communal and
political riots or even caste conflicts.

The year also saw 170 industrial riots with 283 victims and 628 agrarian
agitations that ended up in riots and injured or killed 1,319 victims.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Plans for review advance as first charges laid; City hopes to gain lessons that
will allow future gatherings to go ahead without violence

BYLINE: Kim Bolan And Jeff Lee, Vancouver Sun; With Files From Jonathan Fowlie
And Neal Hall

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 912  words


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcoholfuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

Mayor Gregor Robertson said: "Everyone wants to understand how this riot
happened, ask the tough questions about it and move forward because we want to
keep having these big gatherings downtown."

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

Chu praised the progress of the newly formed Integrated Riot Investigation Team,
but police warned of other developments.

"In the ensuing high state of emotions following the recent hockey riot, there
is a growing danger that the tools of social media will be used to mete out
vigilante justice," the VPD said. "The Vancouver police department and its
integrated investigation team are asking the public to resist the temptation to
take justice into their own hands. We ask for your patience and continued shows
of responsible good citizenry as the investigation unfolds."

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot. Burnaby
resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two
men were stabbed in 700-block of Hornby that night. And 27-year-old Calgary
resident Joshua Lyle Evans has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous
to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Ladner man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who
allegedly stole a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak for
allegedly lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far. Chu urged others to follow
suit.

"If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at a time that is
convenient for you," he said. "If you wait until we find you -and we will find
you -we will arrest you in a public manner suitable to the public crimes you
have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said about the
riot.

"Based on the best information we had the following morning, we stated that the
instigators among the mob were 'criminals, anarchists and thugs who came to town
bent on destruction and mayhem' regardless of the outcome of the game," Chu
said.

"While we are still standing by that observation about the instigators, we are
learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have now been
charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not have
criminal records."

He said the suspects come from across the Lower Mainland and beyond and that the
task force will include police from across those jurisdictions.

RCMP Asst. Commissioner Craig Callens said the federal force is eager to help
out with the riot probe.

Four experienced Vancouver prosecutors will be assigned to handle all the riot
charges, Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said Monday.

He said the Criminal Justice Branch is devoting whatever resources are needed to
handle the police files.

Vancouver police issued a rare denial Monday of rumours they said "appear to
become more fantastical every day."

"The rumours tend to involve perceived interference with strategic, operational
or budgetary police matters from politicians or bureaucrats. The VPD would like
to make it absolutely clear there is no shred of truth to these rumours," the
release said.

At the top of the bizarre rumour list was a claim that city manager Penny Ballem
said had access to a police radio and had been interfering with police command
by directing officers.

"I guess I could always say I wanted a police radio, but I absolutely had no
police radio," she said.

Ballem has been criticized for admitting she didn't read the 1994 Stanley Cup
riot report before the playoffs. But she said Monday that her staff were
familiar with the recommendations, many of which have long been in place. She
also welcomed the review, to be completed by Aug. 31, saying it will not be
limited in scope.

Solicitor-General Shirley Bond said the review isn't supposed to be a full
inquiry.

The B.C. government is paying for both the review and the police task force. The
head of the review has not yet been named.

Among the issues to be addressed are: . The "learnings" from the previous
inquiry into the 1994 Stanley Cup riot and how they were included in planning
for the last game of the Stanley Cup series;

. The "foundational elements" of the police and city plans for the series and
how those plans worked in light of the riot;

. The availability of alcohol and what should have been done;

. How the city and police should deal with future public events.

Meanwhile, the so-called Wall of Healing around vandalized stores downtown is
coming down. The dozens of plywood sheets, which became a focal point for people
to leave messages of inspiration, apology and anger, have been given to the city
and will be store while plans for their display are worked out.

kbolan@vancouversun.com jefflee@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne,  PNG Files; Charges related to the riot have been laid or
recommended against six people, with more expected.; Wayne Leidenfrost,  PNG
Files/;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                Final C Edition

Plans for inquiry underway as first charges laid; City hopes to gain lessons
that will allow future gatherings to go ahead without violence

BYLINE: Kim Bolan and Jeff Lee, Vancouver Sun; With Files From Jonathan Fowlie
And Neal Hall

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 911  words


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcoholfuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

Mayor Gregor Robertson said: "Everyone wants to understand how this riot
happened, ask the tough questions about it and move forward because we want to
keep having these big gatherings downtown."

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

Chu praised the progress of the newly formed Integrated Riot Investigation Team,
but police warned of other developments.

"In the ensuing high state of emotions following the recent hockey riot, there
is a growing danger that the tools of social media will be used to mete out
vigilante justice," the VPD said. "The Vancouver police department and its
integrated investigation team are asking the public to resist the temptation to
take justice into their own hands. We ask for your patience and continued shows
of responsible good citizenry as the investigation unfolds."

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot. Burnaby
resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two
men were stabbed in 700-block of Hornby that night. And 27-year-old Calgary
resident Joshua Lyle Evans has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous
to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Ladner man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who
allegedly stole a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak for
allegedly lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far. Chu urged others to follow
suit.

"If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at a time that is
convenient for you," he said. "If you wait until we find you -and we will find
you -we will arrest you in a public manner suitable to the public crimes you
have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said about the
riot.

"Based on the best information we had the following morning, we stated that the
instigators among the mob were 'criminals, anarchists and thugs who came to town
bent on destruction and mayhem' regardless of the outcome of the game," Chu
said.

"While we are still standing by that observation about the instigators, we are
learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have now been
charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not have
criminal records."

He said the suspects come from across the Lower Mainland and beyond and that the
task force will include police from across those jurisdictions.

RCMP Asst. Commissioner Craig Callens said the federal force is eager to help
out with the riot probe.

Four experienced Vancouver prosecutors will be assigned to handle all the riot
charges, Crown spokesman Neil MacKenzie said Monday.

He said the Criminal Justice Branch is devoting whatever resources are needed to
handle the police files.

Vancouver police issued a rare denial Monday of rumours they said "appear to
become more fantastical every day."

"The rumours tend to involve perceived interference with strategic, operational
or budgetary police matters from politicians or bureaucrats. The VPD would like
to make it absolutely clear there is no shred of truth to these rumours," the
release said.

At the top of the bizarre rumour list was a claim that city manager Penny Ballem
said had access to a police radio and had been interfering with police command
by directing officers.

"I guess I could always say I wanted a police radio, but I absolutely had no
police radio," she said.

Ballem has been criticized for admitting she didn't read the 1994 Stanley Cup
riot report before the playoffs. But she said Monday that her staff were
familiar with the recommendations, many of which have long been in place. She
also welcomed the review, to be completed by Aug. 31, saying it will not be
limited in scope.

Solicitor-General Shirley Bond said the review isn't supposed to be a full
inquiry.

The B.C. government is paying for both the review and the police task force. The
head of the review has not yet been named.

Among the issues to be addressed are: . The "learnings" from the previous
inquiry into the 1994 Stanley Cup riot and how they were included in planning
for the last game of the Stanley Cup series;

. The "foundational elements" of the police and city plans for the series and
how those plans worked in light of the riot;

. The availability of alcohol and what should have been done;

. How the city and police should deal with future public events.

Meanwhile, the so-called Wall of Healing around vandalized stores downtown is
coming down. The dozens of plywood sheets, which became a focal point for people
to leave messages of inspiration, apology and anger, have been given to the city
and will be store while plans for their display are worked out.

kbolan@vancouversun.com

jefflee@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne,  PNG Files; Charges related to the riot have been laid or
recommended against six people, with more expected.; Wayne Leidenfrost,  PNG
Files/;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday

Riot smoke is always dirty

BYLINE: Keith Flett

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 587 words


There has been media commentary on who the rioters are - age and occupation -
and whether draconian sentencing policies are appropriate. Riots are nothing new
in our history and neither is the official reaction to them. As British
historian George Rude indicated in his extensive research on crowd behaviour
throughout history, the authorities have tended to see riots as political and
reacted politically to them. The riots that began in Tottenham on August 6 are
no exception.

Not everyone who participates in a riot is politically motivated but it is the
collective act that concerns the state. Hence there is a historical category of
"marginal" rioters, often arsonists. They may have just liked burning things but
context and timing may indicate some political element. After the Wilkes and
Liberty riots of the 1760s, the Gordon riots of the 1780s, Captain Swing in 1830
and various episodes in the Chartist period of the 1830s and 1840s, the
government put considerable effort into catching those who had participated. Few
were actually caught and most had trades, even if they were comparatively
youthful. Judges invariably handed out exemplary sentences. Hanging and
transportation to various parts of Australia were not uncommon. The historical
sociologist Charles Tilly has argued that after the period around Peterloo
1816-1819 when the state employed both legal and physical repression against
opponents it moved to the model we are more familiar with today. That is to say
that most protest was facilitated and dealt with leniently by the courts. If
needs be though the iron fist could be displayed. A new police force was created
from 1829 in London. Its activities were opposed from the beginning. Peel noted
on November 9 1830 that there had been some "unpleasant confrontations" between
the "police and the mob." The 1839 County and District Constabulary Act, which
aimed to create local police forces to deal with Chartism, was not significantly
altered until the 1970s. Draconian sentences were given, though not always
carried out, for the Swing riots, matters related to Ireland and those who
protested about the new Poor Law. The sentences did not stop protests and riots,
however. Arson attacks continued in the countryside through the 1830s and 1840s,
and the Chartist period was far more uproarious than that which immediately
preceded it. Just as some have suggested today that new ways of doing things
such as Twitter and Facebook must be behind the recent riots, so there was an
idea that the introduction of the first friction-based "Lucifer" match in 1830
made fire raising easier. Actually it did, though I can find no record of
attempts to ban it. The idea that those involved in protests and particularly
riots might not be politically motivated is nothing new. Rude has written of the
"shadowy realm" that existed between crime and protest. Writing in 1844,
however, Engels was clear about the matter: "What a man has he does not steal."
When you look at the literature on what happened to those who were arrested for
riot and how the state dealt with them, however, it is thin. That is perhaps
because the main development in recent times is not Twitter but CCTV, which
allows easier identification of alleged rioters. That may also explain why those
with trades are represented so well in cohorts of 19th-century rioters. They
were simply people who were more easily identified. The Riot Act was abolished
in 1973 because it was assumed such disorder was a matter of history. It wasn't.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           September 17, 2013 Tuesday

Akhilesh Yadav booed in Muzaffarnagar over mishandling of riots

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 364 words


LUCKNOW: ChiefMinister Akhilesh Yadav got a taste of public resentment against
his government and party when he was booed by a crowd during his tour of
Muzaffarnagar's riothit areas. Compounding troubles for SP, its Lok Sabha
candidate for Baghpat, Sompal Shastri, expressed his unwillingness to contest as
an SP candidate. A large crowd raised slogans against the chief minister at
Kawal village in Muzaffarnagar, where Akhilesh Yadav had gone on Sunday to meet
the family of Shahnawaz, killed on August 27.

The crowds raised slogans blaming the government for its failure to control the
riots. Many in the crowd said that the CM did not meet ordinary villagers and
remained surrounded by Samajwadi Party workers. Yadav visited several riot-hit
villages including Malikpura and Kandha.

He later said that villagers told him that foreign weapons were used during the
riots. "It has now become apparent some outsiders were also involved in the
riots. We are looking into all angles. Strict measures would be taken and the
National Security Act would be slapped on the accused," said Yadav.

SP continued to battle with the political fallout over the riots as Sompal
Shastri surrendered his ticket to contest the Bhagpat seat. Shastri, a former
Union minister and a respected Jat leader from the area, said that the
government had not been able to handle riots effectively and to express
solidarity with the people of the area he was surrendering his ticket to contest
as a Samajwadi Party candidate.

"It was the responsibility of the government to control the riots. Had the
leadership been alert, the situation could have been avoided. I am deeply
disturbed and therefore distancing myself from the Samajwadi Party," he said.

Shastri, who had once defeated Rashtriya Lok Dal chief and Union minister Ajit
Singh, is regarded as a prominent Jat leader of the area. The Muzaffarnagar
riots had taken on the hues of a Jat-Muslim clash which saw 41 people dead and
at least 43,000 people being displaced temporarily.

With Prime Minister Manmohan Singh slated to visit Muzaffarnagar on Monday, SP
would continue to face the heat over the riots in the coming days.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            March 3, 2004 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Three arrests over city riot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 189 words


SYDNEY police yesterday charged three more people, including two relatives of
Thomas "TJ" Hickey, over the Redfern riot sparked by the teenager's death.

NSW police said the latest arrests brought to 15 the number of people charged
over the February 15 riot.

Up to 40 police officers were injured in the riot.

Strike Force Timepiece, established to investigate the riot, yesterday arrested
a 27-year-old Riverstone man in Walgett, where he was due to face court this
afternoon.

He was charged with five offences, including using an explosive substance with
intent to cause grievous bodily harm, riot, affray, violent disorder and
throwing a missile.

Officers in Sydney also arrested a man in Quakers Hill.

The man, 38, also from Riverstone, was due to appear in Blacktown Court this
afternoon charged with violent disorder, throwing a missile, riot and affray.

Both men are members of TJ's family, according to police.

A 30-year-old Marrickville man was also arrested around 3.30pm at his house by
Newtown police.

He was charged with riot, affray, violent disorder and throwing a missile.

The man is due to appear at the Balmain Local Court today.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2004 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Law, order issue rocks Assembly

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Feb. 25 -- The law and order issue rocked the state assembly on Monday
when BSP and BJP members cornered state government over number of riots that
rocked Uttar Pradesh since this Samajwadi Party Government came to power leading
to adjournment of the House for 15 minutes.

Members of BSP and BJP entered the well of the House separately raising slogans
against the Government seeking Government reply on rehabilitation of the
Muzaffarnagar riot victims. Anugrah Narain Singh (Congress) raised the matter
during Question Hour and asked as how many riots took place in state since 2009.
Replying to the question Parliamentary Affairs Minister Md Azam Khan said only
four communal riots took place from April 2012 to February 14, 2014 in which 73
people were killed and 155 others were injured.

He said Government did its best to provide relief to the victims who have been
displaced. This answer opened a Pandora's box as Satish Mahana (BJP) said that
earlier government had informed the House that 27 riots had taken place while
now it is saying that just four riots had taken place. "It seems officials are
taking Government for a ride. The Government should clarify as which figure is
correct," Mahan asked.

Leader of the Opposition Swami Prasad Maurya also asked the government to
clearify its stand. The Government of India says 103 riots had taken place while
IB says 115 communal skirmishes have taken place. "It is pathetic that even
after several months people are living like refugees in the camps. The riots
were orchestrated by Samajwadi Party to derive a political mileage out of it,"
he said.

Before Government could say anything he trooped into the well of the House
alongwith other BSP members. They raised anti-government slogans. Amid that din
Parliamentary affairs minister said that many of the BSP leaders were also
involved in the riots and NSA was invoked against them. On the persuasion of
Speaker BSP members returned to their seats. But Azam Khan's allegation that BSP
men were involved in Muzaffarnagar riots and NSA was also invoked against them
incited BJP members.

"The Parliamentary affairs minister is saying that the Congress and BSP members
were involved in the riot and Goernment had invoked NSA against them. We want to
know who are the people against whom NSA is invoked and what action government
has taken against them," BJP Legislature party Leader Hukum Singh said. The BJP
now entered the Well of the House forcing Speaker to first adjourn the House fo
10 minutes and then extend it for 5 more minutes.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 6, 2013 Friday

Inmate sentenced to 5 years for role in prison riot

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 517 words


Sept. 06--NATCHEZ -- One man was sentenced to five years in prison and another
pleaded guilty Thursday for his part in the 2012 prison riot that injured dozens
and left one correctional officer dead.

Judge David Bramlette sentenced Pedro Gonzales De Los Reyes to 60 months in
prison and $1.3 million in restitution in U.S. District Court -- Southern
District of Mississippi in Natchez for his participation in the seven-hour
prisoner uprising at the Adams County Correctional Center on May 20, 2012.

The judge said the restitution is to be paid in conjunction with all other
inmates who have been or will be sentenced in the matter. The restitution is
equal to the estimated amount of damage caused by the riot.

ACCC is a privately owned prison, operated by Corrections Corporation of
America.

Reyes pleaded guilty in June to being a part of the riot -- which involved
hundreds of inmates and resulted in the death of correctional officer Catlin
Carithers.

While Bramlette said he took into consideration the fact that U.S. prosecutors
said Reyes had cooperated and been able to give evidence that helped the overall
investigation, he denied the defense's request to sentence him to no more than
40 months on the grounds that he was a minor participant in the event and had
not conspired to riot and had not taken any hostages.

Bramlette said sentencing enhancements that consider any participant in the riot
culpable in the assault and tying up of correctional officers still applied to
Reyes' case.

"Compared to others in this riot situation, he was a minor participant,"
Bramlette said. "Due to his activities and his knowledge of what could happen,
the enhancements are appropriate."

The injuries that were caused to those affected by the riot were "reasonably
foreseeable,'" the judge said.

Speaking through his attorney, Robert McDuff, Reyes apologized to the court and
everyone affected for his part in the riot.

"He regrets it, and he is sorry," McDuff said.

Bramlette said Reyes was formerly convicted of a money laundering scheme
involving $285,000 worth of cocaine.

Federal sentencing guidelines suggested Reyes could have received a sentence
ranging from 57-71 months. Bramlette did not issue a fine with the sentence
because Reyes is indigent, and the judge said Reyes faces deportation at the
expiration of his sentence.

Another inmate, Ernesto Lizama-Reynaga, pleaded guilty Thursday to participating
in the riot.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Lemon said had the case gone to trial, the
government would have been able to produce three witnesses who said they saw
Lizama-Reynaga attacking a prison command center with a pole and a piece of
concrete.

Lemon said the witnesses would have also testified they saw Lizama-Reynaga
strike windows with a metal pan from the prison kitchen and witnessed him with
items from the prison commissary and throwing items from the kitchen at the
window.

Lizama-Reynaga will be sentenced at 1:30 p.m. Nov. 19.

___ (c)2013 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130906-YY-Inmate-sentenced-to-5-years-for-role-in-prison-riot
-0906-20130906

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2013 The Natchez Democrat


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Adityanath blames Cong for riots

BYLINE: Mail Today/ New Delhi

LENGTH: 241  words


PUTTING the blame on the previous Congress government's communal agenda for
riots in Uttar Pradesh, BJP MP Yogi Adityanath has said that communal riots are
not happening in the BJP governed states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh while
the states governed by Congress and its supporting parties have been ravaged by
riots.

" This talk about 600 communal riots is totally wrong. Yes, there is a mention
of 113 riots. All these riots are result of communal agenda of previous
governments.

These riots have happened only in states ruled by Congress and its supporting
parties," Adityanath said on Aaj Tak ' s Seedhi Baat.

Speaking on ' Love Jihad' the Gorakhpur MP said that it started in 2003 in Uttar
Pradesh and the alleged gang- rape in Meerut was a result of Love Jihad.

" Love Jihad started in Kerala and then between 2003- 2007 these cases also
happened in UP. At that time there was Mulayam Singh's government. Since 2012
when SP again came to power these cases have increased. Meerut is a similar
case.

If there was no love Jihad then why are Muslim girls not marrying Hindu boys,"
he said.

On being told that there are cases of Muslim girls marrying Hindu boys, the MP
said: " that is not love Jihad but only love." The MP also asserted that the BJP
government will remove Article 370, bring Uniform Civil Code and construct Ram
Mandir as promised in the manifesto.

" These three things were part of our manifesto and it will be fulfiled," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Hindustan

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday

How will Netaji know pain of riots? Mulayam's visit canceled

LENGTH: 238  words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Sept. 21 -- Samajwadi Party (SP) Chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, who had
planned to visit Muzaffarnagar to know the pain of fire scorched riots,
cancelled his visit to the district as of now. According to the earlier program,
Mulayam was going to visit the riot-hit areas on Sept. 20.

Before this, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi also
visited the riot-hit districts. Although, when Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav
visited Muzaffarnagar, then he had to face protest by people. The people were
waving black-flags to show their opposition against Akhilesh.

Significantly, the riot broke out in Jansath Tehsil of Kawal village,
Muzaffarnagar, on Aug, 27, when a girl was molestated. In this riot, 50 people
were killed and dozens injured. Although, SP Chief Mulayam Singh does not
consider the incident as a riot, he has termed the Muzaffarnagar incident as
racial violence.

Opposition has alleged that the SP government did not take any action
deliberately. While, the center's U.P. government has accused BJP and BSP
leaders for inciting the riot.

Reference: Original article of this translated version is available at:
http://www.livehindustan.com/news/lifestyle/muzaffarnagar/article1-story-50-111-
364599.html

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Hindustan. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Hindustan Media Ventures Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Tuesday, November 15, 2016  12:55:53 EST

