
                              537 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

From Futurists to Pussy Riot, a Brief History of Russian Performance Art

BYLINE: DAWN CHAN

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 434 words



HIGHLIGHT: A new show at the Garage Center of Contemporary Art in Moscow traces
the country&#8217;s lineage of provocative demonstrations.


As the world saw in 2012, the anti-Putin "prayer" staged by feminist punk group
Pussy Riot proved so provocative that several of the musicians ended up
imprisoned on charges of hooliganism. Now, a new exhibition in Moscow features
radical Russian groups like Pussy Riot - and, more importantly, contextualizes
them in a long lineage of Russian performance. Curated by Yulia Aksenova and
Sasha Obukhova, the show opens Friday, Oct. 17, at the Garage Museum of
Contemporary Art. According to Kate Fowle, Garage's chief curator, the show
"looks for the first time at the impact of the interrupted trajectory between
prewar and postwar epochs of performance in Russia." Aksenova and Obukhova were
reluctant to identify favorites, but were finally cajoled into highlighting
several standout moments in the history of Russian performance art.

1910s A group of Russian artists, identifying themselves as Futurists (or
Cubo-Futurists), paint their bodies and faces with strange markings,
hieroglyphs, tendrils and squiggles that represent, among other things, the
jarring developments in urban life and modernity. Their manifesto, Obukhova
notes, includes the line, "The time is right for art to invade life."

1920 Directed by Nikolai Evreinov, the Storming of the Winter Palace is a mass
spectacle staged in Petrograd. As an audience of over 100,000 watches, a
reported 8,000 to 10,000 participants (from soldiers to ballet dancers) reenact
the October Revolution, paying homage to the Red Army, accompanied by fireworks
and the firing of a cannon.

1970s An assemblage called Collective Actions starts making underground art, as
performance is verboten. ("It was a very hard time," Obukhova says. "All art
that reminded people of modern tendencies was forbidden.") The members of
Collective Actions stage ambiguous, poetic acts, often privately in homes, or in
the anonymity of rural settings. Audiences - most often their friends and
associates - receive elliptical instructions to meet at an appointed time; in
one performance, everyone who shows up to participate is instructed to pull
seven kilometers of white rope across an abandoned field.

1995 The artist Alexander Brener sets the tone for his provocative future
performances by donning boxing gloves, marching out into the Red Square and
challenging Boris Yeltsin to a fight.

2002 Two artists, dubbed the Factory of Found Clothes, direct a bevy of cadets
to solemnly carry small, white, paper dresses through St. Petersburg - a
military drill, by all appearances, but made refreshing through the inclusion of
delicate women's apparel.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday
                                Lucknow Edition

UP govt reply in apex court contradicts Akhilesh claims

BYLINE: Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui & Ashish Tripathi TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 576 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'No Parallel Between UP,Gujarat Riots'


Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that there is
no parallel between Muzaffarnagar andGujarat riots.The government has also
denied that the communal riots were linked to the three murders in Kawal town of
Muzaffarnagar.This,however,contradicts the repeated claims of Chief Minister
Akhilesh Yadav that a fake video clip circulated by BJP MLAs had triggered the
clashes.The government's reply came in response to a PIL filed by activistNutan
Thakur,who sought CBI probe into the riots by drawing parallels to the sequence
of events with 2002 Gujarat riots.The affidavithasbeen filed by home secretary
Kamal Saxena.UP is averse to CBI probe into Muzaffarnagar riots.The petitioner
had alleged that government's failure to check events after murder of youths
escalated tension and eventually led to riots.Thoughthe goveAA rnmentin its
reply admitted that postmurder events took place,it said the petitioner's
perception was exaggerated.The volte-face by the government lends credence to
the allegations that the riots -- in which 62 persons were killed and over
60,000 displaced --were a "fixed match" between the BJP and the SP
government.The affidavit will also help BJP MLA Sangeet Som to counter the
criminal proceedings on the basis of which National Security Act was slapped on
him for uploading a fake video clip of the Kawal murders itself.The affidavit
states : "The averments regarding escalation of tension with the three deathson
27.8.2013,in thelight of certain eventshaving allegedly taken place earlier is
the petitioner's own perception which do not warrant any response." Nutan Thakur
had mentioned in the petition that a number of incidents had taken place before
the riots broke out on September 7,2013.She had contested that despite a common
link to all these incidents,the government failed to initiate action strong
enough to avert the riots.In sharp contrast to the affidavit,chief minister
AkhileshY adavhad notonly admitted that Kawal murders led to the riots but also
warned those hatching a conspiracy to destabilise the SP government by
instigating communal violence."What happened in Muzaffarnagar is a wellthought
out strategy," Akhilesh had said in the state assembly on September 19,2013."One
political party has tried to draw political mileage.They usedsocial media
totrigger a riot," he had alleged.BJP MLA Sangeet Som has been
chargedwithcirculating a fake video online that claimed to show the lynching of
two Hindu Jat boys by a group of Muslims;it was actually a video from Pakistan
that was two years old,the CM had stated.In his first post-riot visit to
Muzaffarnagar on September 15,Akhilesh Yadav had hit out
atthosewhouploadedthefake video.He said,"Spreading such false hatred inflicting
videos was anti-national.Will have to find them and prosecute them." In fact,the
state government had repeatedly claimed that action was initiated against
Sangeet Som for spreading hatred by uploading a fake video and claiming it to be
the footage of the murder of twoHindu youthsin Kawal on August 27.Regarding
Thakur's contention that several sectarian and communal clashes have occurred in
UP since SP came to power,the affidavit states "UP,being one of the largest
stares of the country,has witnessed several events related to law and order
issues" and they were "inevitably and promptly dealt with".It further states
that the petitioner has not provided details of the action taken in clashes.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              539 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

UK police arrest 6 over London riots;
UK police arrest 6 people on suspicion of instigating last summer's London riots

SECTION: A; Pg.2

LENGTH: 128  words


LONDON (AP) - British police say six people have been arrested on suspicion of
instigating the riots that swept London last summer.

Scotland Yard says the suspects were netted in dawn raids across London
targeting suspected gang members.

The force said those arrested are suspected of involvement in the initial
disorder which took place in north London that "clearly acted as a catalyst" for
the further unrest.

Riots erupted Aug. 6 in north London and flared for four nights across the
capital and other English cities as street gangs and looters trashed shops and
vehicles.

Police said Thursday that one 19-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of
violent disorder and burglary, while five male suspected gang members - aged 17
to 19 - were arrested on similar charges.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              540 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

National Journal

SECTION: NEWS;NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 659  words


Health

Clement questions ethics of doctors

MONTREAL - The association representing Canada's doctors rapped Health Minister
Tony Clement on Monday after he questioned the ethics of physicians who support
the use of supervised injection sites for drug addicts. Clement said Vancouver's
controversial safe-injection facility, Insite, has created a "slippery slope.-I
find the ethical considerations of supervised injections to be profoundly
disturbing," he said. But the Canadian Medical Association's president said 79
per cent of members agree that safe-injection sites and harm- reduction programs
work.

Justice

35 arrested after Montreal North riot

MONTREAL - Thirty-five people have been arrested by Montreal police as part of
their investigation into a riot last weekend following the fatal police shooting
of a teenage boy. Montreal police Chief Yvan Delorme said Monday that security
has also been beefed up at the station serving Montreal North, where the riot
happened. Police have released pictures of numerous people caught on security
cameras during the riot and gotten tips from the public. The tactic also proved
fruitful during the Stanley Cup riot downtown earlier this year. Delorme also
said efforts have been made to reach out to the Montreal North community in the
wake of the riot.

Social

Afghan aid groups review security

TORONTO - Aid groups say they remain committed to helping the Afghan people but
are reviewing security in the wake of the latest threat from the Taliban. An
"open letter" from the Taliban calls on Canadians to persuade their government
to pull out of Afghanistan or face more attacks like the one that killed two
Canadian aid workers last week south of Kabul. Michael Kocher, vice- president
of international programs for the International Rescue Committee, said the IRC
has been working in Afghanistan since 1988 and has an "extensive security
apparatus" there, but does not use armed escorts as they're a humanitarian
organization. Following the attack, Kocher said the group is looking at all
security procedures, and has made alterations.

Justice

Bilingualism asset for top court job

QUEBEC - The next justice on the Supreme Court of Canada will be chosen on the
basis of merit although the ability to speak both of the country's official
languages would help, federal Justice Minister Rob Nicholson said Monday.
Nicholson was pressed at a news conference over whether the replacement for
retiring Justice Michel Bastarache would be fluent in French but Nicholson
wouldn't be cornered into saying it is absolutely necessary. Ability to function
in French has been an issue since the last judge appointed, Marshall Rothstein
of Manitoba, is not considered fluent. An extensive search was started in May to
find a replacement for Bastarache, who is known for his defence of minority
rights.

Health

Mental health funding extended

MONTREAL - The federal government has extended the mandate of the Canadian
Mental Health Commission for another five years, Health Minister Tony Clement
announced Monday. Clement said the commission is focused on projects including a
mental health strategy, an anti-discrimination campaign and a knowledge-
exchange centre. Commission president Michael Kirby said he hopes to help
Canadians change their attitudes toward people with a mental illness. He said
the government will spend $74 million over the next five years.

Fraud

Scammers using phony tax letter

OTTAWA - The Canada Revenue Agency is warning people to beware of scam artists
who are trying to steal personal financial information with a letter purporting
to be from the government. The phoney document uses an authentic- looking
letterhead and claims that people are missing out on refunds because certain
information was omitted from their returns. It asks them to send their key
information, including bank account numbers, to an e-mail address or a fax
number. The revenue agency says don't fall for it. Police have been notified.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2008 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              541 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

5 minutes with Steven Pinker

BYLINE: Steven Pinker

SECTION: SATURDAY REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 595 words


Steven Pinker, 57, is a professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard
University and author of several books on human nature. Time magazine described
him as one of the 100 most influential thinkers in the world. He has also been
described as having a hairstyle that "works equally well for Led Zeppelin
frontman Robert Plant".

In your new book you say that the world is becoming less violent, but don't the
London riots prove otherwise?

It's a fallacy to say that since violence exists today, nothing has changed. You
have to look at how common violence was in the past. Take riots. Lethal riots -
far more lethal than what London experienced last summer - have been common
throughout history.

My grandmother's earliest memory was the Kishinev pogrom, which killed more than
a hundred Jews. Just think of the expression "to read them the riot act". That
comes from an era in which there were lethal riots every time the price of bread
went up.

People would blame the increase on the Catholics or the Jews or the bakers or
the bankers and pull them into the streets and lynch them. So a magistrate would
read a special piece of legislation called the Riot Act, which ordered the crowd
to disperse. Anyone who didn't leave could be executed. It wasn't until about
1950 that deadly ethnic riots pretty much disappeared from the West.

Why have we become less violent?

One thing is effective government. When you can outsource your vengeance to a
third party, then you're not your own judge, jury and executioner and the
verdicts tend to be fairer and more accepted by all parties. Another factor is
the rise of commerce [which provides] opportunities by buying and selling
instead of by plundering. A third is the expansion of literacy. Lab studies
suggest that if people read the words of someone unlike themselves that's enough
to make them more sympathetic to that individual and the category they
represent.

Hasn't religion had an effect?

It would be hard to argue that religion has been much of a pacifying force.
There is some evidence to suggest that it makes things worse. Organised
religions have done more than their share of violence.

But I wouldn't single out religion as the cause of organised violence because
it's only one cause. Another recurring cause of atrocities has been Utopian and
demonising ideologies: belief systems that identify some class of people as the
obstacle to a perfect world. That would include Nazism, communism, and militant
versions of religions.

Is it true that when you were 13 you announced that you were an anarchist?

It seemed a good idea at the time, in the 1960s.

The story I tell - it probably should be taken with a grain of salt - is that I
had an argument with my parents. I said we didn't really need the police because
people are naturally co-operative. They asked what I thought would happen if the
police were to vanish and I said that life would go on as normal. Then the
Montreal police went on strike and within hours there was rioting, looting and
shootings. I marked that day as the end of my romantic anarchism.

Although you are an evolutionary biologist, you decided not to have children. Do
you ever feel sorry for your genes?

No. By the way, I am also defying my genes because I am a very happy and proud
stepfather, and being nice to my stepdaughters doesn't do a thing for my genes,
but it certainly makes me happy.

Catherine Nixey

The Better Angels of Our Nature: The Decline of Violence in History and Its
Causes by Steven Pinker is published by Allen Lane

Organised religions have done more than their share of violence

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

India: Accused seeks transfer of '84 riots case to another court

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 28 -- A co-accused of Congress leader Sajjan Kumar in the 1984
anti-Sikh riots cases on Saturday pleaded before a Delhi Court to transfer the
matters to a judge having territorial jurisdiction to try them.Special CBI Judge
P S Teji reserved the order on the application of accused Khushal Singh in the
riots cases.According to our correspondent, in a plea, Singh submitted that
Karkardooma court did not have jurisdiction to try the cases as the offences
were alleged to have been committed at Sultanpuri and Delhi
Cantonment."Karkardooma court where the matters are being heard are not the
competent court as per the law with regard to territorial jurisdiction," Singh's
counsel submitted.He further said that Delhi has been divided into nine judicial
districts and the matter should be heard by a court either at Rohini or at Tees
Hazari district courts."The very purpose of dividing Delhi into nine judicial
district was to make justice available at the doorsteps of the public and to
ensure convenience," he said seeking transfer of the cases.He also referred to
section 177 of the CrPC, stating that any criminal matter should be heard by a
competent local court having territorial jurisdiction.CBI prosecutor Y K Saxena,
on the other hand, opposed his plea stating that there was no question of
territorial impropriety."No prejudice is caused to the accused whether the
matter is tried at Tees Hazari or Karkardooma.

This is the only designated court of the CBI," he said.He also said that the
probe into riots cases was transferred to CBI from the Delhi Police.Sajjan Kumar
and others, who have been chargesheeted by the CBI in two riots cases, were
present before the court to which the matter has been transferred to initiate
the proceedings related to trial.On March 20, Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate had declined to take on record an application of Kumar seeking
certain documents related to the chargesheet filed against him in riot cases,
saying it was aimed at causing hindrance in the progress of the case.The ACMM
had sent the case against Kumar and others before a Special CBI Court.CBI had
filed two chargesheets on January 13 in the riots cases registered on the
recommendation of Justice G T Nanavati Commission which had inquired into the
sequence of events leading to the riots in the aftermath of the assassination of
the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              543 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            February 9, 2014 Sunday

BJP, SAD leaders were involved in 1984 riots: Former Punjab CM

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: India


India, Feb. 9 -- Taking the debate around the 1984 anti-Sikh riots further,
former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday backed Congress
vice-president Rahul Gandhi's statement on the riots issue.

Rahul had accepted that some Congress men were probably involved in the riots
while also stressing that they have gone through a legal process and some of
them have been punished for it.

The senior Congress leader, Amarinder Singh said that leaders of Bharatiya
Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal were also involved in the riots. He further
said that the BJP and SAD should not raise questions on the riots issue.

Following Rahul's statement in an interview, Members of Sikh organisations
protested outside the All India Congress Committee office in the heart of the
national capital on Thursday demanding that Gandhi scion name the Congress
leaders whom he alluded to having played a role in the 1984 riots.

Both BJP and SAD slammed Congress and said that the Gujarat administration led
by Narendra Modi ensured the victims got justice while charging the Congress of
denying justice to the victims of anti-Sikh violence.

Furthermore, SAD president and Punjab deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal urged the
Sikh community to boycott Congress.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              544 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday

Sangareddy riots one-sided ' Zahid Ali Khan - Rs. 6.67 lakh Relief distributed

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, April 11 -- Mr. Zahid Ali Khan, Editor Siasat distributed Rs. 6.67
lakh relief among the victims of Sangareddy riots. While addressing a press
conference at Press Club, Sangareddy, he told that these riots were one-sided
and only the properties of the Muslims were destroyed. The function of
distribution of relief was started with the recitation of Quran by Hafiz
Mohammed Abduallh. Sitting on the dais were M.A. Hakeem Advocate, Maulana
Mohammed Mohiuddin, Maulana Syed Fasihuddin, Mohammed Ather Mohiuddin, Mohammed
Mahmood Ali Aseer, and others.

Mr. Zahid Ali Khan told that it was not a riot between two communities. It was
unilateral and one-sided. Only the economy of the Muslim community was
targatted. Communal elements are trying to spread rumours. We have to be
careful. The largest minority is so powerful that to whosoever it supports,
gains power. The Muslims should use their strength with full awareness. They
should elect only such representatives who have faith in secularism. If we
oppose each other, we will be at a loss. If we go on blaming each other, unity
can't be generated.

He told the residents of Sangareddy that so far no communal riot had occurred in
their area. The people here were leading peaceful life. The present riot has
breached the trust. It was not a communal riot. It was rowdyism. It is not
possible to compensate the loss which amounts to Rs. 3 crore we are trying to
extend our cooperation to start life afresh with this spirit. Siasat is
distributing relief to the victims. In all 104 victims were given Rs. 6.67 lakh.
Relief was also given Rs. 45,000 to 14 Hindu victims each. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Observer (Sri Lanka)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday

Can of worms

LENGTH: 306  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Aug. 14 -- The shooting of Duggan as well as the riots that followed
have also opened a can of worms on police action or rather, inaction. There was
a lot of criticism that the police did not act swiftly and in enough numbers to
quell the riots. Furthermore, there is widespread resentment that the police are
not doing enough to tackle crime in the major cities.

Mark Duggan whose death sparked the riots

The metropolitan police itself will have to conduct a critical assessment of its
own actions. Indeed, Londoners had to come together to help each other and stop
the riots, which in some cases extended to vigilante action. In the wake of the
riots, Londoners have been calling for tougher policing, even if it meant
extreme measures not normally adopted in democracies, to protect life and
property of citizens.

A YouGov poll for the Sun newspaper published Wednesday showed 90 percent of
those surveyed calling for the use of water cannons against rioters, 77 percent
supporting the deployment of the army and 33 percent saying that the police
should be permitted to fire live ammunition.

The riots have also brought a series of other issues to the fore, including the
question of national security, personal freedoms and human rights. Some years
ago, there was a furore over a plan to introduce National ID cards in Britain.
It already has the highest number of CCTV cameras per person; you cannot walk
100 metres without getting caught on camera and CCTV tape somewhere. Some have
even termed this 'Big Brother' a la George Orwell. Some already see this as an
attempt to monitor people's movements all the time. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Sunday Observer (Sri Lanka). For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2011 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              546 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                          December 16, 2004, Thursday

AROUND THE REGION

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 599 words


Race Riot Commission to meet

The 1898 Wilmington Race Riot Commission will meet at the New Hanover County
Public Library at 10:30 a.m. Friday. A PowerPoint presentation of little-known
images of street scenes before and during the riot period and of some key people
involved will be presented.

The General Assembly created the commission in 2000 to gather stories and
documents from descendants of blacks terrorized or killed during the white mob
attack.

In the aftermath, blacks were forced out of town at gunpoint, and the
democratically elected, biracial town council was forced out of office.

The commission was asked to develop a historical record of the event and assess
the economic impact of the riot on blacks across the state.

Interviews are being conducted and materials collected by the staff of the
Office of Archives and History in the N.C. Department of Cultural Resources. The
primary investigator is LeRae Umfleet, who can be reached at (919) 807-7289 or
lerae.umfleetncmail.net. About 15 interviews have been completed, and other
citizens are urged to share information about the riot.

The commission meeting is sponsored by the Wilmington Race Riot Commission and
the N.C. Office of Archives and History. The commission's chairman is Rep.
Thomas Wright.


Fire victim seeks temporary home

The woman who lost her Church Street home to a fire earlier this week is looking
for a temporary home.

As of Wednesday morning, Nannie Mapson had not seen her house, which was
destroyed by a Monday morning fire. Fire investigators could not determine
exactly what caused the fire, but they did not rule out the source as
electrical.

Mrs. Mapson and her son, Ronald, were not home at the time of the fire. They're
staying with another son of Mrs. Mapson's, Ronald's twin brother, Donald.

Mrs. Mapson may be contacted at 251-0682. Money and other donations, such as
clothing, may be sent to Donald Mapson's home at 2214 Oleander Drive.


Disaster relief available

Brunswick County residents with unmet expenses related to Hurricane Charley have
until Jan. 3 to apply for assistance.

The N.C. Disaster Relief Fund has awarded the county $ 93,643 for the program.

Storm-related expenses eligible for reimbursement - and those that have not
already been reimbursed through other federal or state programs or insurance -
include food, cleaning supplies, medicine, structural damage, utilities and car
repairs.

Applications are available at Brunswick Social Services, building B in the
county government center in Bolivia. Completed applications should be dropped
off at the Administration Office, building E at the government center.


State asks for opinions

The State Historic Preservation Office is updating Legacy, the state's
Comprehensive Historic Preservation Plan, which serves as a policy statement for
preservation efforts in North Carolina.

A questionnaire has been designed to elicit input about what is most important
to preserve, what are the most pressing preservation needs and issues and what
the state's priorities should be over the next five years.

The office is distributing the questionnaire to public officials, local
governments and preservation organizations as well as to the public.

You can download a copy from the office's Web site, www.hpo.dcr.state.nc.us, and
mail it to Melinda Coleman, N.C. State Historic Preservation Office, 4617 Mail
Service Center, Raleigh, NC 27699-4617. Call Ms. Coleman at (919) 733-4763 to
have a copy mailed or faxed to you or for more information.

- From staff reports


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 Star News


                              547 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Indian Trademark News

                        July 29, 2016 Friday 7:39 AM EST

Riot Games Inc Receives Approval for Trademark RIOT POINTS

LENGTH: 149  words


Mumbai, July 29 -- Riot Games Inc of Santa Monica, USA received approval from
Office of The Trade Marks Registry on the trademark RIOT POINTS (2272932).



The description of the mark registered is "Entertainment services, providing
virtual currency for transaction of virtual commerce in online video and
computer games." It comes under Class 41 of the Trademark classification.

The application for the trademark was filed on Jan. 27, 2012.

Riot Games Inc has been using RIOT POINTS (2272932) since Nov. 20, 2009.

The Trademark was published in the Trade Marks Journal No. 1749 on June 13,
2016.

About the Company

Riot Games Inc is a USA-based company. It is situated in Santa Monica in
California. The company is engaged in Providing temporary use of no downloadable
software that enhances computer, video game play by detecting and tracking
computer, video game users that habitually leave computer, etc.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              548 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 8, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan: 1 dead in Syria refugee camp riot: Jordan

LENGTH: 332  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, April 8 -- A man was killed and 10 Syrian refugees were arrested when a
riot erupted in a desert camp of northern Jordan, a security chief said on
Sunday. "Unknown assailants shot and killed a 25-year-old Syrian man during the
riots on Saturday" at Zaatari refugee camp, Brigadier General Waddah Hmud said.
"Police did not use weapons against the refugee," Hmud, who heads a department
in charge of Syrian refugee affairs, told reporters at the sprawling camp.

Another security official named the dead man as Khalid Nemri. Jordanian
officials said the riot broke out after the detention of a group of refugees who
had left the camp "illegally". Three refugees were injured. "Around 5,000
Syrians took part in the riots. Anti-riot police had to fire tear gas to
disperse them," Hmud said. UN refugee agency the UNHCR said in a statement that
"three Syrian refugees were sent to hospital with gunshot wounds and one has
since died". The agency said the trouble began after a Jordanian vehicle was
stopped for a routine check while leaving the camp. Police at the checkpoint
"discovered that the driver was attempting to smuggle a Syrian refugee family
out of the camp," a UNHCR statement said. It said the driver and family were
detained, but once this became known, relatives and friends of the Syrian family
headed for the police post. "Soon several hundred, possibly thousands refugees
were on scene and throwing rocks at the Gendarmes and the situation quickly
evolved from a heated demonstration to a violent one." The UNHCR called on
Syrian refugees "to respect Jordanian law". Since opening two years ago, Zaatari
near the border with Syria has been the scene of several protests, mainly over
poor living conditions. Jordan is currently home to more than 500,000 Syrian
refugees

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              549 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday

BRIEF: Riot-affected entrepreneurs in Zhanaozen to receive loans on favorable
terms

BYLINE: L. Podolyak, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Jan. 11--ASTANA, Kazakhstan -- The owners of commercial facilities destroyed
during the riots in Zhanaozen will be issued soft loans up to 5 million tenge
($33,000), Samruk-Kazyna National Welfare Fund Chairman of Board Umirzak Shukeev
said at a government meeting.

"Today's decision to approve a special plan for entrepreneurship development in
Zhanaozen for 2012-2014 will start this work. As it was previously discussed,
procedure for granting loans is simplified at most, and loans up to 5 million
tenge will be issued on very preferential terms," Shukeev said.

Earlier, Shukeyev during his working trip to Zhanaozen met with entrepreneurs,
whose facilities were affected by the riots. Consideration of applications and
issuing loans were explained to owners of the affected facilities.

Mass riots hit the Kazakh oil town of Zhanaozen in the Mangistau region on
Dec.16 killing 16 and injuring more than 100 people. Kazakh President Nursultan
Nazarbayev declared a state of emergency in Zhanaozen until Jan.31.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120111-1AZ-BRF-Riot
-affected-entrepreneurs-in-Zhanaozen-to-receive-loans-on-favorable-terms-0111-20
120111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              550 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Arts & Book Review

                                 April 29, 2011
                                 First Edition

the diary

BYLINE: ARIFA AKBAR

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 688 words


Slight riots

The row between Take That and Plan B started at the Brits, when the latter
accused the former of stealing his thunder by bringing on backing singers (above
left) dressed as riot police ("They were just trying to copy me"). Now, James
Cauty, a former member of the 1980s pop group KLF has created a mischievous
variation on the theme for his upcoming show at the London gallery L13 Light
Industrial Workshop. His miniature scene depicts members of Take That being
attacked by riot police. Both Take That and Plan B have been invited to the
opening of Riot in a Jam Jar, which features, well, different riot scenes in a
jam jar. Cauty, a founding member of the KLF, who lit up Top of the Pops with
hits like "The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu", was also partly responsible for
lighting a bonfire of £1m in an anti-consumerist act of anarchy. This idea is
less costly, at least. His series includes tiny versions of the London G20
protests in 2009 and the recent attack on the Rolls-Royce carrying Prince
Charles and Camilla. Squint to see it at the Clerkenwell gallery from 1 June.

Great Dane

Denmark is the new Sweden, as far as crime fiction goes. Following the runaway
success of The Killing, there are a host of wonderful writers being published in
English. First off the press is the Department Q series by the Danish superstar
Jussi Adler-Olsen (above middle), a phenomenal success in his home country and
an apparently terrifying read. The writer's own back-story is pretty perturbing
in its own right: his father was a leading psychiatrist and the young writer
grew up around mental institutions, in direct contact with patients. His
publishers say that as a result "his perceptions of good and evil became
confused. This was particularly the case with a murderer called Morck who Jussie
befriended when he was seven." Morck had a profound impact on the writer,
apparently, and appears as the protagonist in the Department Q series.

Rich pickings

Jean-Claude Gandur, a self-made Swiss billionaire (and the seventh richest man
in Switzerland) is organising a travelling exhibition that could act as a good
model for other billionaires with equally extraordinary art collections to show
off to the public. Gandur will show his collection - including over 200 post-war
European abstract expressionist paintings, a holding second only to the Pompidou
Centre in Paris, and over 800 Greek, Roman and Egyptian antiquities that rank
among the world's finest - in Geneva next month. It will travel around the world
after that.

Spam, rehashed

James Howard, a former hacker turned artist who is beloved of Charles Saatchi
(his work was shown at the Saatchi gallery show British Art Now) has shed some
light on the "working process" behind his collages (above right). They're
inspired by internet spam and junk emails apparently. "It all begins in my junk
email folder," he explained to the ArtInfo website. "In the place where
everything has a bit of a question mark over its authenticity - pensions,
Russian brides. I take images and texts from that junk email folder and from
pop-up adverts and I collage them together into artworks... I gravitate towards
reoccurring images: adverts for Chinese wives and images of beautiful sunsets
over serene oceans seem to crop up rather a lot, as well as pictures of people
with distorted bodies looking up into fisheye lenses..." If you want to see the
results, you can catch his work at the Aubin Gallery, in Shoreditch, London. Or
simply visit your junk mail filter.

Purple Ronnie feeling blue

The artist and greeting-card creator Giles Andreae, otherwise known as Purple
Ronnie, is bringing depression to children with a new series of books, he tells
me. But they'll be uplifting even when they're sad and will deliver their
message through metaphor. Andreae said that the subject would make children feel
more, not less secure: "I think children have the ability to understand metaphor
in fiction. The books are about regaining the capacity for joy." Each of the
books features a different animal and deals with a new emotion, such as love,
happiness and trust.

a.akbar@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TR


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              551 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday

Riots expose need for prison reform

BYLINE: Neil Nisperos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 716 words


CHINO - As state lawmakers continue to debate the solution to overcrowding in
California's prisons, the recent riot in Chino has served as a rallying cry.

Officials have said overcrowding was a major factor in conditions that allowed
the Aug. 8 riot to get out of control at the California Institution for Men.

When Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger visited the facility the following week, he said
the riot was a symptom of the larger problem of state prisons overcrowding,
which officials have been dealing with for years.

Corrections officials said that while the cause of the riot was racial tensions
between rival gang inmates, overcrowding certainly hampered efforts to restore
order.

It took corrections officers four hours to quell the riot, which injured more
than 200 inmates. Nearly 1,300 were displaced and moved to other state prisons,
further complicating already crowded conditions there, officials said.

In the past week, state lawmakers have debated the Schwarzenegger
administration's proposal to release 27,000 inmates to reduce overcrowding and
cut state spending.

During his tour, the governor noted that CIM holds about 6,000 inmates in
facilities designed in the late 1930s for about 3,000.

"The reality is that California's entire prison system is in a state of crisis,"
he said. "It's collapsing under its own weight. Spending in prisons has nearly
doubled in the last four years. Spending in our state is nearly $49,000 per
inmate per year. The national average is $32,000, and it's hard to argue the
money is spent wisely."

Schwarzenegger also said California has one of the highest inmate return rates
in the country, which endangers both staff and inmates.

"The politicians swept the problems under the rug for so long," he said. "We are
literally losing control of our prisons."

In Sacramento, the Assembly is expected to vote Monday on prison reform
proposals to deal with overcrowding in California facilities.

Schwarzenegger's proposals, approved by the Senate shortly after his Chino
visit, included increasing home confinement with electronic monitoring, reducing
some crimes to misdemeanors, deporting undocumented inmates, scaling down
sentences for inmates who complete rehabilitation programs and decreasing the
number of parolees sent back to prison for parole violations.

Many of the governor's provisions were reduced by the Assembly after six in the
majority Democratic caucus refused to vote for it. Among the changes were the
elimination of a sentencing commission, the reduction of some felony crimes to
misdemeanors, and the removal of alternative home-custody provisions for
nonviolent inmates.

Republicans in the Legislature have criticized the reform plan, claiming it
amounts to little more than the early release of prisoners who likely will
return to prison anyway because of the state's high recidivism rate.

Assemblyman Curt Hagman, R-Chino Hills, said better alternatives to solving high
recidivism rates include more public-private partnerships between businesses and
prisons that would provide inmates with jobs and experience.

Assemblywoman Norma Torres, D-Ontario, a former dispatcher for the Los Angeles
Police Department, was among Assembly Democrats who opposed the Senate-approved
package.

Torres said she feared the creation of a sentencing commission as part of a
prisoner reduction package could lead to halfway houses and sober-living houses
in the Inland Empire becoming inundated. She also was concerned about the impact
that reducing some felonies to misdemeanors would have on the ability of
prosecutors to go after serious criminals.

State Sen. Gloria Negrete-McLeod, D-Montclair, on Friday expressed her
disappointment over the pulling of the sentencing reform portion of the bill.

"I know that the sentencing reform scared a whole bunch of people; I don't know
why, but it did," she said. "It seems the Assembly changed a whole bunch of
things, but I think we as the Legislature should not be the ones crying. That's
not our jobs. Our job is to pass good legislation. The human cry on the bill
(from Republicans) was deplorable."

Still, the business of prison reform must move forward, officials said.

"If the prisons were less crowded, there would be less people to watch over, and
that would make it a whole lot safer for the prisons," McLeod said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 12, 2005

Saudi prince changes Fox's Paris riots coverage

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: 4pm: Fox News was ordered to alter its coverage of the riots in
France after a Saudi prince who owns shares in owner News Corporation complained
to Rupert Murdoch. By Claire Cozens.


Fox News was ordered to alter its coverage of the riots in France after a Saudi
prince who owns shares in owner News Corporation complained to Rupert Murdoch,
according to reports.

Prince Alwaleed bin Talal bin Abdul aziz Al-Saud told a conference in Dubai he
had telephoned Mr Murdoch after seeing a strapline on the news channel
describing the disturbances as "Muslim riots".

"I picked up the phone and called Murdoch and said that I was speaking not as a
shareholder, but as a viewer of Fox. I said that these are not Muslim riots,
they are riots," Campaign Middle East magazine quoted the prince as saying.

"He investigated the matter and called Fox and within half an hour it was
changed from 'Muslim riots' to 'civil riots'."

The prince said his intervention had been an example of how Muslim people can
change the portrayal of their religion in the western media - although few Fox
viewers will have his contacts.

It is not the first time he has admitted to trying to influence Mr Murdoch's
coverage of sensitive issues.

In a recent Financial Times interview he said he did not wish to "intrude" into
the management of companies in which he holds shares.

But he said he did talk to Mr Murdoch and Richard Parsons, the chief executive
of AOL Time Warner, about where he believed the media had got things wrong.

"My job is to open their eyes to things they may not have seen," he said.

Last month's rioting marked France's worst unrest since the student riots of May
1968. Thousands of cars were set alight following the death of two teenage boys
who were allegedly being pursued by police.

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved


                              553 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday

HC seeks report on riots during Akhilesh's term

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 267 words


LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has sought response of
the state government on a PIL seeking CBI probe into communal riots which took
place in UP after the formation of the Samajwadi Party government in March 2012.

It asked the additional advocate general Bulbul Godiyal to apprise it about
petitions already filed in Supreme Court and Allahabad High Court regarding
Muzaffarnagar communal riots. The matter will come up for next hearing after two
weeks.

The PIL had said that after the Samajwadi Party took over on March 15, 2012,
communal riots and sectarian clashes took place in Mathura, Pratapgarh,
Bareilly, Lucknow, Allahabad, Ghaziabad, Azamgarh, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar.

The petition blamed the state government for favouring a particular community
and indicted the local administration for not taking strict action against the
accused of a particular community and that this appeasement policy of the
government has led to communal clashes and riots in different parts of the
state.

The petition also demanded that a sitting judge of the high court should be a
part of the the Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission constituted by the state
government on September 9 to inquire into the Muzaffarnagar riots that left 48
dead and enlarge its scope to all the major riots in UP.

In all the riots that took place in the past 18 months, the administration shied
away from taking action against culprits of a particular sect, it contended,
claiming this had resulted in a sense of mistrust in members of the other
community, including the petitioner.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              554 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Britain is in last chance saloon, says Iain Duncan Smith

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 546 words

ABSTRACT

Former Conservative leader says riots were not crisis, but warns that 'crisis is
coming'

FULL TEXT

The work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan Smith, has said Britain is in the
"last chance saloon", with the riots a warning that social problems could get
worse.

In an , Duncan Smith said: "This is our warning. That wasn't the crisis, but the
crisis is coming. We can't let this go on any more, and I think the prime
minister sees that."

The former Conservative party leader also said dealing with the causes of the
riots would define Cameron's premiership in the way that responding to 9/11
defined Tony Blair.

He has been asked by Cameron to lead a ministerial group alongside the home
secretary, Theresa May, looking at measures that could be introduced to deal
with the problem of gangs.

In the interview, Duncan Smith said the riots would force the government to
focus on the social problems facing Britain.

"The prime minister made it clear that this, now, is his big focus," he said.
"It is not possible to have watched or experienced any of these riots without
realising that we're in the last chance saloon. This is our warning."

Asked whether the riots would have the same impact on Cameron as 9/11 did on
Blair, Duncan Smith said: "Well, I think [Cameron] sees it like that.

"He's now determined this is what he wants to do. It's like a reinvention of
Thatcher's great drive. I always argued that the last Conservative government
freed up the markets, but what was missing was the next bit - getting society in
Britain ready to meet that change.

"We never did. We ended up with a sort of mid-20th century society, many locked
away in welfarism, and a 21st-century economy. We see now that one cannot meet
the results of the other."

Cameron has said the government will use intensive intervention to turn around
the lives of 120,000 problem families. Duncan Smith said he believed that
intervention during the early years could make a huge difference.

"I'm passionate about it because, if we get this right - as they have shown in
Colorado over 25 years - whole communities are turned around by early
intervention," he added.

Duncan Smith said early years intervention was cost-effective because, if
nothing was done to stop young people becoming adult offenders, they cost the
state much more in the long term. In Washington state in the US, there is even a
Which?-style buyers' guide saying how much could be saved within five years for
every dollar invested, he said.

The government could use this principle to persuade investors to pay for early
intervention by getting them to buy a "social bond", he said.

"We could suggest to the private sector we create a social bond," he added.
"We'd say: you can put your money into this for five years, and we'll give you a
guaranteed return because we think it saves us money. We'll give some of it back
to you."

Duncan Smith also suggested that he was opposed to May's decision to stop the
former US police chief Bill Bratton from applying for the post of commissioner
of the Metropolitan police. May has decided only British citizens can apply for
the job.

Duncan Smith said: My answer to everybody who says we don't want him is why
wouldn't you want to learn from someone who knows what they're doing?"

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday

Football fans deny involvement in Moscow ethnic riots in a TV show

LENGTH: 531 words


The 19 December edition of the "Reporters' Stories" programme on Russian
privately-owned Ren TV channel, entitled "Pogrom Territory", focused on the
recent ethnic riots in Moscow and elsewhere in Russia. The programme featured
archive footage of the 7 December demonstration on Leningradskoye Shosse
motorway which was provoked by the 6 December killing of Spartak Moscow fan
Yegor Sviridov, the 11 December riots on Manezhnaya Ploshchad square and in the
metro, detentions and searches on 15 December in Moscow (near Kiyevskiy railway
station), St Petersburg, and Rostov-na-Donu. Some of the interviews were with
schoolchildren who were attacked during the 11 December riots, a riot policeman
who described the attempts to take them to safety and his own injury received
after he was shot at from a flare pistol and a suspect in the Sviridov killing
case, Aslan Cherkesov. Use of social networks such as LiveJournal in planning
riots was also profiled, and a video of OMON riot police drill on 15 December
was shown.

An anonymous Spartak Moscow FC fan, who introduced himself as a "football
hooligan with some authority", speaking with his face covered and voice
transformed, said that football fans did not take part in the riots or ethnic
attacks. "It all has no relation whatsoever to reality. Neither ordinary
football fans nor football hooligans have taken part in any of those affairs -
either on Manezhnaya Ploshchad square, or on Leningradskoye Shosse motorway, or
near Kiyevskiy railway station," he said. The fan denied that a person who was
photographed giving Nazi salutes at the rallies, suspected of heading the Tambov
branch of the pro-Kremlin group Nashi, could have any relation to the football
fan movement. Organizers of the ethnic clashes are interested in discrediting
the "protest movement" which emerged after football fans Yuriy Volkov and Yegor
Sviridov were killed this year, the anonymous fan told Ren TV. He said that
those behind the clashes wanted to present members of the protest movement as
"drunk gits, underage fans who are not really fans but fascists".

The Fratriya movement, one of the Spartak Moscow FC supporter groups, also
denied that "real football fans" were on Manezhnaya Ploshchad square on 11
December. Fratriya leader Amir Khuslyutdinov told Ren TV that football fans were
not interested in taking part in the protests as the ensuing crackdown would hit
them. He referred to tightening legislation on protests as a "disaster" for
football fan movements.

Leader of the Slavic Power (Russ: slavyanskaya sila, SS) nationalist group
Dmitriy Demushkin, who had previously headed the now-banned Slav Union, told
reporters that he had received a tip-off about some sort of punishment that was
to be meted out to his group, supposedly from the authorities. Demushkin said
that he was on Manezhnaya Ploshchad square as a private individual and that
hardly any of his men were there. "It was just a mass of all sorts of
malcontents gathered there, and the mass was relatively small," Demushkin said.
There had been no SS propaganda aimed at attracting people to Manezhnaya
Ploshchad square, he added.

Source: REN TV, Moscow, in Russian 1100 gmt 19 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              557 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            December 23, 2013 Monday

Fresh row over Rahul remark on UP riots;
Congress vice-president says those who orchestrated Muzaffarnagar violence don't
want the victims to return home

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 600  words


New Delhi: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's statement on Muzaffarnagar
riot victims has created a controversy once again. While exhorting the victims
to return to their homes, he said those who engineered communal riots "don't
want you to return to your villages". Earlier in October, Rahul had claimed that
Pakistan's ISI was trying to recruit disgruntled riot-affected youngsters to
carry out its nefarious designs. He had said intelligence inputs revealed that
some ISI agents were in touch with riot victims.

Meanwhile, protestors believed to be belonging to the Muslim community showed
Rahul black flags while he was returning to Muzaffarnagar after visiting a
relief camp at Shamil. Congress was quick to allege that the ruling Samajwadi
Party in UP had stage-managed the protests.

His latest statement during his closely guarded visit to relief camps for those
affected by the recent communal riots has angered the Muslim community leaders,
who see him as someone far from reality. "Nobody wants to stay in this chilling
cold in relief camps. We are not here out for any benefit or affection. Several
children have died here. Instead of creating an atmosphere for our return, Rahul
has put salt on our wounds," says Maulana Mufti Zulikar Ali, head of imams'
organisation in Uttar Pradesh.

Gandhi also held interactions with riot victims at nearby Khurgan camp where
Congress has put up stalls for medical assistance and treatment. "Those who
engineer communal riots want that you should not go back. This benefits them.
They want to keep you away from your villages. I know it is difficult and there
is also fear there but we have to think beyond. This will not be good in the
long run," he told the riot-affected people. "The message goes out that you will
not go back to your villages. Those fanning communal riots want precisely this
to happen," the Congress vice-president said. The victims told him unless those
guilty of orchestrating riots are not punished and an atmosphere of security is
not created, it is difficult for them to return.

At present, more than 25,000 people are staying in various relief camps in
Muzaffarnagar district.

Gohar Siddiqui, spokesperson of Jamait-e-ulema- Hind, described Rahul's remarks
as childish. "Making such remarks second time in a row shows his attitude and
understanding," he told dna on phone from Muzaffarnagar.

"Earlier, he mentioned ISI's hand in Muzaffarnagar riot and now he is asking the
riot victims to return to their houses. I have to say that Rahul Gandhi makes
statements without realising its implications. Such a senior leader should not
make statement before ascertaining facts," Siddiqui said.

"People living in these make-shift camps had lost their family members, and
their houses were burnt. And all these was perpetrated on them by their
neighbours. Unless, all those responsible for the massacre are punished, they
will never feel safe to go back to their villages," he added.

Siddiqui also said that though the district administration has registered more
than 500 FIRs, many accused are still roaming free. Muzammeel, a social
activist, said that now the district administration is also asking people
staying in relief camps to return to their villages.

Communal riots tore through the western Uttar Pradesh town of Muzaffarnagar in
September this year, leaving nearly 60 people dead and close to 40,000 homeless.

Out in the cold

25,000 The number of

people living in relief camps in Muzaffarnagar

60 The number of people killed in the riots

40,000 The number of people rendered homeless

500 The number of FIRs registered after the riots

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              558 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Minorities panel chief meets Shinde on Muzaffarnagar riot victims

BYLINE: Rakhi Chakrabarty | TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 190 words


New Delhi: National Commission of Minorities chairman Wajahat Habibullah on
Tuesday urged home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde to facilitate rehabilitation and
resettlement of Muzaffarnagar riot victims and pointed to the urgent need to
restore harmony in the region.Habibullah also raised the problems of Sikhs in
Gujarat.Habibullah handed over to Shinde a petition by the All India Democratic
Women's Association (AIDWA) seeking rehabilitation and justice for Muzaffarnagar
riot victims,and another by a group of riot victims seeking security and
justice.Though the Communal Violence Bill was yet to become law,certain aspects
of it could be used as guidelines,especially on counts of fixing
accountability,punishing anyone found guilty,rewarding officers who played an
exemplary role in prevention and control of riots,Habibullah told Shinde.He also
recommended speedy rehabilitation of the riot-affected,preferably on the lines
recommended in the bill.Scores of Muzaffarnagar riot victims are yet to get any
compensation and continue to be allegedly threatened to withdraw their
complaints.For the full report,log on to www.timesofindia.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              559 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Shivpal Singh Yadav faces Shamli riot victims' wrath

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 301 words


LUCKNOW: Senior UP minister Shivpal Singh Yadav faced a hostile crowd of riot
victims in Shamli when he visited the relief camps on Monday. People accused the
minister of paying lip service and accused the government of mishandling
situation. Communal violence in the district and adjoining areas left 48 persons
dead and displaced over 50,000.

After landing at the makeshift helipad in Chandan Lal National Inter College in
Kandhla, Yadav, who is uncle of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, left for Eidgah
where he met the riot victims.Yadav assured people that government would take
action against guilty and provide justice to the victims but was forced to cut
short his visit as restless crowd assembled at the spot started sloganeering.

He left for Jogiya Kheda. However, on way he spoke to some Muslim clerics and
assured them that government had taken the matter seriously and arrangements
would be made for rehabilitation of riot victims. Later, he visited several
other riot-hit villages and localities.

When media-persons asked him to comment on the alleged role of his ministerial
colleague Mohammad Azam Khan in riots, Yadav said "Khan is a pious and clean
man." However, he alleged that there was a political conspiracy behind the sting
operation conducted by a television channel which showed Khan allegedly asking
cops to delay action which led to escalation of violence.

Sources said that earlier Samajwadi party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav was supposed
to visit the riot-hit areas but cancelled it following reports of 'hostile
environment'. Later, he decided to send his brother Shivapal Yadav along with a
team of SP leaders from Jat, Muslims and Gujjar communities which constitute
large part of the population in the west UP and are most affected by the riots.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Police face riot act - WorkCover claims lack of training, safety gear

BYLINE: KARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 355  words


NSW Police is being prosecuted over its alleged failure to protect its officers
during the Redfern riot.

And bravery awards for those police on the frontline during the February 2004
riot have been delayed due to sloppy paperwork.

The Daily Telegraph can reveal WorkCover began action against NSW Police in the
Industrial Relations Commission four months ago.

NSW Police is charged with failing to comply with section 8 (1) of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000.

The penalty is a fine of up to $825,000.

The section states an employer must ensure the health, safety and welfare at
work of all its employees.

This includes providing the necessary training and supervision and ''adequate
facilities'' for workers' welfare.

It follows a lengthy investigation by WorkCover into the conditions and training
of officers involved in the riot.

Almost 50 officers were injured and eight hospitalised during the riot, in which
rioters pelted officers with bricks and bottles.

There were accusations that riot equipment, as well as riot training for
officers and co-ordination by their superiors, was not up to scratch.

The court proceedings are in the preliminary stage and another hearing is
scheduled for July 22.

It is not yet known what the WorkCover case against the police will entail.

Both WorkCover and police spokesmen said they could not comment because court
proceedings were under way.

Meanwhile, The Daily Telegraph has learned bravery commendations for many
officers involved in the riot have been delayed.

Last year, an initial report to the Commissioner's Awards Secretariat is
believed to have recommended that up to 100 officers be commended for their
actions on the night of the riot.

However, the report was not detailed enough about the actions of individual
officers and another report was requested at the end of last year.

The police spokesman said that report had been received by the commissioner's
office last week.

''It is regretted the process has taken so long to reach this point,'' he said.

''The review of the nomination is a thorough process to ensure the actions of
all the police involved is considered and assessed.''

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 March 9, 2015
                                 First Edition

Coalition approves sale of anti-riot weapons to human rights violators;
ARMS SALES

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 584 words


The Coalition has approved the sale of £16m of crowd control and anti-riot
equipment, including tear gas and rubber bullets, to countries which regimes
placed on its own human rights blacklist, i can reveal.

The figures detailing the export of material implicated in the quelling of
internal dissent in locations from Egypt to Hong Kong are made public ahead of a
Home Office-organised business fair held behind closed doors this week which
will showcase British arms and security companies to dozens of foreign
governments.

Campaigners said the figures showing Britain's vigorous trade in crowd control
and anti-riot materials with countries where internal repression has been widely
documented showed the Government is putting commercial interests ahead of its
human rights obligations and running the risk of failing to abide by its own
export rules.

Since the Coalition came to power in 2010, export licences for at least £15.9m
of crowd control goods from riot shields to "irritant ammunition" to more than
100 countries have been approved by Vince Cable's Department for Business,
Innovation and Skills (BIS). They include £10m of tear gas or anti-riot
irritants, £640,000 of "crowd control ammunition" and £3.1m of riot shields.

None of the exports are unlawful and much of the material goes to established
democracies and close allies from France to the United States. A large number of
crowd control licences for "anti-riot acoustic devices" worth £54m in total and
cleared for deployment to countries including Nigeria, Yemen and Egypt are in
fact for use in anti-piracy operations off the African coast and in the Indian
Ocean.

But crowd control supplies have also been cleared for export to countries and
territories with authoritarian regimes and questionable human rights records,
including Libya, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Hong Kong and Egypt. Nine of the
countries to receive export approvals - Afghanistan, Bahrain, Colombia, Iraq,
Israel, Libya, Pakistan, Russia and Saudi Arabia - feature or have featured on
the Foreign Office's human rights blacklist of Countries of Concern over the
last five years.

The figures compiled from Government data by the Campaign Against the Arms Trade
(CAAT) show that goods worth £6.7m were cleared for shipping to the nine
countries between 2010 and last September, including £2.95m of tear gas to Saudi
Arabia.

The department said: "We examine every application. Risks around human rights
abuses are a key part and we do not grant licences where there is a clear risk."

Tear gas exports to Hong Kong worth £147,000 were approved for the former colony
in 2011. The Government insists there's no proof British supplies were among the
87 rounds fired at demonstrators.

Crowd control customers

FCO Countries of Concern - crowd control exports 2010-14

Afghanistan

£3,900 - ballistic shields

Colombia

£17,525 - anti-riot/ballistic shields Iraq £24,940 - anti-riot/ballistic shields
£25,940 - components for civil riot control or agent protection equipment

Israel

£950 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £11, 420 - components for civil riot control
or agent protection equipment

Libya

£380,840 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £2.9m - tear gas/irritant ammunition
(clearance subsequently revoked) £227,806 - crowd control ammunition (clearance
subsequently revoked)

Pakistan

£107,063 - anti-riot/ballistic shields

Russia

£19,920 - riot control protection equipment

Saudi Arabia

£10,796 - anti-riot/ballistic shields £30,920 - riot control protection
equipment £2.9m - tear gas/irritant ammunition

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              562 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday

Has Modi performed his duty as CM during riots, asks Mulayam

BYLINE: Bipin Chand Agarwal

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 712 words


GONDA: SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav on Monday took on BJP's prime ministerial
candidate Narendra Modi for his 56-inch 'chhati' (56-inch chest) barb and
challenged him for an open debate on the issue of development and communal
politics. He also accused Modi of "first discriminating against Muslims and now
forcibly acquiring land of Sikh farmers in Gujarat".

"I am ready for one-to-one debate with Modi. If he wants, he can also write to
me, I will reply," he said. Gujarat's population is six crore. Even if I presume
that all are living a comfortable life, it stands nowhere in comparison to the
UP which has over 20 crore population, of which 12 crore are better off. For the
remaining, SP government is working. What Modi did in Gujarat in 10 years, we
plan to do in five years. SP government has done a lot for farmers, more than
any other government in the country," Mulayam said addressing a largely-attended
SP's "Desh Bachao, Desh Banao" rally at the Sardar Bhagat Singh Inter College
ground.

Rejecting charges of discrimination in relief work in Muzaffarnagar, the SP
chief said, "Riots are unfortunate and should not have happened, but the state
government has done everything possible to provide employment and house to the
victims. But what kind of a person is Narendra Modi? He did not allow me to meet
the Gujarat riot victims. And what the women riot victims shared with me cannot
be discussed here. Modi Sahab, have you done your duty as chief minister during
riots and protected all sections of the society?"

"It is my open charge why are Sikhs being troubled in Gujarat. Why is the
government trying to grab their land?" Mulayam asked.

Our government never discriminated and if the riots occurred in my state, we
gave compensation to the victims irrespective of religion or caste. Muslims were
killed in Moradabad during Mayawati government but no compensation was paid,"
Mulayam said.

Claiming that "the kind of assistance SP government has given to the poor people
of UP, nobody did after Independence", Mulayam commented: "Is education and
medicine free in your state of Gujarat? These are free in UP." Modi also does
not know what the SP government has done for the farmers in UP. Over Rs 16.50
crore of loans of the Land Development Bank had been waived off and provisions
have been made to ban auction of farmers land, but what have you done Modi
sahab?" he asked and added that the state cabinet had also okayed free medical
treatment for serious ailments like cancer in the state. "This has not happened
anywhere else in the country," Mulayam claimed.

He said that inflation and combating poverty were the biggest challenge before
the country. If any party is fighting against injustice, it is SP, he claimed.
"The SP government is committed for women empowerment."

Mulayam said that from 2000 to 2007, CBI was behind him and other leaders of SP.
They were falsely implicated though the CBI gave clean chit later.

Training his guns on Congress and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Mulayam played
the Muslim card to the hilt. "Why Sachchar Commission report is not being
implemented in the country?" he asked.

"BJP and Congress have no policies for the development of the country. These
parties are good for nothing. SP has given you a young chief minister and the
MLAs are also young who are working for the youth," he said.

In his address, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said that his opponents were
spreading rumours against his government. The CM made several promises like
construction of roads and bridge in Gonda and an ITI in Bharatpur. He also
promised to construct a bridge over the Ghaghra and declared a new tehsil in
Bahraich.

The CM said that SP is working in all the areas. Development is happening all
over the state and his government is taking measures to improve power generation
and supply. SP has taken a historical decision of adjusting 1.70 lakh shiksha
mitras.

Earlier Akhilesh laid the foundation stones of 54 different projects in Gonda.

Addressing the rally, senior cabinet minister Azam Khan said that Muslims were
safe under SP government. He said that Modi only talks big and has nothing for
the masses. He said that crowd in SP rally in not hired. These are the committed
supporters of the party.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Monitor (McAllen, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

BRIEF: Six killed in Reynosa prison riot

BYLINE: Ildefonso Ortiz, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 154 words


Nov. 11--MCALLEN -- Mexican authorities are looking at three prison inmates in
connection with a Reynosa prison riot that killed six others.

The riot was reported shortly after 7 p.m. Sunday at the Reynosa State Prison
where the six men were killed with makeshift shanks, according to a news release
from Tamaulipas state investigators.

Authorities detained Agapito Arredondo, 28; Humberto Gámez, 26; and Juan Manuel
Bautista Cruz, 36, who were questioned and told investigators that the riot was
the result of ongoing hostilities between the inmates.

The deceased inmates were identified as:

--José Guadalupe Marín Rocha, 41

--Lauro Treviño, 31

--Humberto Hernández González, 36

--José Santos González Villarreal, 41

--Carlos Mario Grajales Garza, 31

--Rafiel López Calzado, 30

iortiz@themonitor.com

___ (c)2013 The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) Visit The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) at
www.themonitor.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131111-MC-BRF-Six-killed-in-Reynosa-prison-riot-1111-20131111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2013 The Monitor


                              564 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

16 more people arrested in Iran with connection with market riots

BYLINE: S. Isayev and T. Jafarov, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 236 words


Oct. 04--Sixteen more people have been arrested in connection with the recent
riots in Iran, according to Tehran's Public Prosecutor's office, Mehr reported.

It has earlier been reported that several people have already been arrested in
connection with the riots. Among them were two Europeans.

Mehr reported earlier that the two Europeans claimed they were tourists, who
were photographing occurring disorders.

According to Tehran's Public Prosecutor's report, there are more people that are
currently being investigated with connection to the riots.

On Monday, a USD was sold at 29, 700 rials in the morning, but sharply increased
to 35,500 rials by the evening. As a result of the rapid drop, as much as 660
trillion rials in cash assets of country's citizens were lost on Monday evening.

General Secretary of Islamic Market Associations Ahmad Karimi Isfahani said
yesterday that the merchants and shopkeepers were forced to close down their
shops because of the protesters in the streets.

According to Tehran's Public Prosecutor's office, the detained people were
buying and selling foreign currency at the market, keeping connection with their
foreign partners, artifically trying to raise exchange rates.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20121004-1AZ-16-more-people-arrested-in-Iran-with-connection-with-market-riots
-1004-20121004

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              565 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 20, 2011 Friday

150 Inmates Involved in Riot, 2 Seriously Hurt

BYLINE: Sam Cohen, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 315 words


May 20--FOLSOM-- About 150 inmates were involved in a riot at the new Folsom
State Prison Friday morning.

The riot happened in the B-Facility Main Exercise Yard just after 10 a.m. Prison
officials used "less lethal rounds, pepper spray and one lethal round (warning
shot)" to get control of the situation.

* Related

Stay in Touch

Send us a news tip

FOX40 News Fan Page

Â¿Â¿Â¿Â¿Â¿Â¿  Follow FOX40 on Twitter

Mugshots: Sacramento Wanted Mugshots: Sacramento Wanted

* Topics

* Prisons

* Injuries and Wounds

* Riots

* See more topics Â»

Folsom (Sacramento, California)

Mass Media

Facebook

Sacramento

The facility is technically known as the California State Prison-Sacramento, but
is commonly called the new Folsom Prison.

Two inmates were stabbed multiple times. One was still in surgery Friday
afternoon and his condition is unknown. The other has a broken eye socket and
broken left hand. Several other inmates are being assessed for injuries. The
majority of injuries appear to be minor, and non-life threatening. None of the
prison staff were injured.

Officials say they have placed the facility on a "modified program" until an
investigation into Friday's incident is finished. More than seven inmate-made
weapons were discovered at the prison, six were knives and one was a cane.

The prison houses about 3,000 inmates and has more than 1,700 staff members. It
houses primarily maximum-security inmates serving long sentences, and those who
have caused problems at other state institutions.

Next time, be the first to know. FOX40 breaks news and shares stories like this
with our Facebook friends and Twitter followers.

To see more of KTXL-TV, go to http://www.fox40.com/. Copyright (c) 2011,
KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110520-5KT-150-Inmates-Involved-in-Riot-2-Seriously-Hurt-0520-20110520

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                              566 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Presidential library seeks riot artifacts

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: CITY/STATE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 520 words


Have an artifact from the 1908 Springfield race riot?

If so, researchers from the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library would like you
to call them.

A free, two-floor exhibit of the riot, to open at the library June 6, will
re-examine the August 1908 event that left seven dead, hundreds injured and
dozens of mostly black businesses and homes destroyed.

The riot, which took place several months before Springfield celebrated
Lincoln's 100th birthday in 1909, drew nationwide scorn on the city and led to
formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Many events planned this year will commemorate the riot's 100th anniversary.

Library researcher Noreen O'Brien-Davis said she and others have gathered a lot
of information about the riot, but haven't been able to locate many artifacts to
display.

Specific items of interest, O'Brien-Davis said, include riot "souvenirs" such as
linens and silverware taken during widespread looting and photographs of black
residents, riot victims and black cultural life at the turn of the century.

"We don't really have any photographs of black family life of that time period,"
O'Brien-Davis said.

She said library researchers have contacted descendents of Charles Werner, the
county sheriff during the riot, and are borrowing law-enforcement artifacts from
the family. Werner oversaw the county jail where rioters began protesting after
learning that two black inmates they were intending to lynch had been secreted
out the back door to safety.

The rioters soon discovered white Springfield restaurant owner Henry Loper had
loaned his car to Werner, who used it to transport the prisoners to a train
headed for Bloomington. The rioters first acts were to torch Loper's car and
destroy his downtown restaurant. Two days of rioting followed.

O'Brien-Davis said she'd be particularly interested in any artifacts from
Loper's restaurant.

She said the library also has been able to piece together some state militia
items. Militiamen, arriving from more than 20 Illinois communities from Chicago
to Mount Vernon, came to restore law and order in Springfield. O'Brien-Davis is
hoping she can locate some artifacts the soldiers may have brought home with
them.

George Richardson, one of the inmates whose escape from getting lynched sparked
the riot, had been jailed for allegedly raping a white woman. The woman
eventually confessed that, in an attempt to conceal an affair, she had made up
the story about the assault.

It took several decades for the city to place commemorative markers telling the
riot story. Library researchers suspect a lot of history had been buried by
then, some intentionally.

"I'm sure there are families in Springfield with relatives from 1908 to 2008,"
O'Brien-Davis said. "Maybe it's still painful for some. How do you ask for
something that may have been looted?"

Who to call about artifacts

Anyone with a tip about a possible artifact from the 1908 race riot can reach
Noreen O'Brien-Davis at 558-8953 or obrien-davis@Illinois.gov

For more information about the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/news/raceriot.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2008



CORRECTION: Anyone with a tip about a possible artifact from the 1908 race riot
can reach Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum researcher Noreen
O'Brien-Davis at 558-8953 or noreen.obriendavis@illinois.gov An article in
Thursday's State Journal-Register included the wrong e-mail address, obtained
from the library and museum's Web site.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              567 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Riot's role in council election;
State politics

BYLINE: Â»HEATH ASTON - STATE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 391 words


A candidate in next weekend's local government elections is running on a
platform that Cronulla should make a film about the infamous race riot of 2005,
and how its origins were in "Lebanese hooligans".

Richard Black, a lawyer, who is running as an independent for Sutherland Shire
Council, said he wanted the Cronulla community to depict the riot in film before
an independent filmmaker got the chance to heap more shame on the area.

He has written half a screenplay, with the working title Cronulla's Troubles,
and believes the council should help residents produce the film. He said the
controversial television shows The Shire and Dumb, Drunk and Racist will be a
precursor to renewed interest in Cronulla which, he said, has had "$1 billion
worth of bad publicity" since 2005.

"The Victorian police commissioner recently referred to 'Cronulla-style riots'.
Cronulla is now a byword for hooliganism," Mr Black said. He said Cronulla's
Troubles would be a fair and objective look at the riots, including how the
community had copped "dysfunctional hooligans descending on the area for
decades".

Mr Black traces the origins of the 2005 riot to an incident in Menai in the
early 2000s when Lebanese youths were arrested after a fracas, and exonerated by
a magistrate before returning to the area, emboldened by the experience.

Mr Black is one of 4627 candidates in NSW seeking election on Saturday. Among
them are Jane Vincent - a sister of the federal Opposition Leader, Tony Abbott -
who is standing for Mosman Council as an independent. Another sister, Christine
Foster, is contesting the City of Sydney election for the Liberal Party.

The lord mayor, Clover Moore, who is standing down as a state MP to continue her
long reign at Town Hall, is a short-priced favourite to retain the mayoral
chains.

The Rabbitohs' legend Mario Fenech is standing in Randwick, while the former
state premier Kristina Keneally's husband Ben is expected to succeed Rob Hoenig
as mayor of Botany, for Labor. In Woollahra, the Women's Weekly queen, Deborah
Thomas, is running as an endorsed Liberal candidate, as is the present deputy
mayor, Toni Zeltzer.

The poll has reignited debate among Liberals as to whether the party should be
involved in local politics, where the stakes are low but the potential for
embarrassment is high.

Heath Aston's state column

- Extra, Page 81

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Ugly ... Sutherland candidate Richard Black, inset, says
Cronulla has had "$1 billion worth of bad publicity" since the riot. Main photo:
Andrew Meares

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Police board to tackle riot report

BYLINE: The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 222  words


The Vancouver Police Board will hear this week what steps the force is taking to
implement suggestions made to prevent another riot on city streets.

Rioters ran amok in downtown Vancouver on June 15 during the so-called Stanley
Cup riot, setting fires, over-turning cars and committing an estimated
$5-million-worth of damage to businesses and streets in the down-town core.

A report into the riot was co-authored by 2010 Olympic boss John Furlong and
Douglas Keefe. It found that the rioters were fuelled by alcohol, and
over-crowding of the streets was part of the problem.

An estimated 155,000 flocked to the streets to watch Game 7 between the
Vancouver Canucks and the Boston Bruins. Violence erupted toward the end of the
game when it became clear the Canucks were going to lose.

The report said that police were over-whelmed in their ability to suppress the
riot due to slow access to riot gear and lack of communication equipment.

The report, made public in September, recommended that a regional tactical squad
be formed and that alcohol sales be radically curtailed leading up to special
events. It also suggested a special court should be set up to prose-cute those
charged in the riot.

So far, at least 27 people have been charged with riot-related offences. Police
say they expect to charge 700 people.

The board meets Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              569 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

UK riots reveal two faces of social media

LENGTH: 651 words


The riots that erupted on Aug. 6 in north London and continued for four nights
across the capital and other cities, highlighted the good and bad uses of social
media, a British official said Thursday.

'Social media itself is not a problem. The issue is whether people abuse social
media,' Roland Davies, director of the British Council in Seoul, said.

British police have arrested nearly 3,000 people for the looting and turbulence.
They are still trying to determine the cause of the unrest, in which rioters
ransacked shops and set buildings ablaze.

Cheshire Police were quoted as saying that two men in their early twenties
received four-year jail terms for using Facebook to 'organize and orchestrate'
the riots. Jordan Blackshaw, one of the two, used social media to create an
event for 'massive Northwich looting.'

Despite the misuse of social media in the riots, Davies stressed that the same
technology was also used for a good in their aftermath.

'I would point out that people were also using social media in very positive
ways. People who were looking to get together to clean up and support their
communities were using social media.'

The debate is focused on what kind of role social media played in the riots,
Davies said.

'I think it is an objective fact that social media was found to have played some
sort of role ... Social media is very much at the forefront of discussion,' he
said.

'What politicians, regulators and the police have in their minds is achieving
the right balance between freedom of speech, the issues of privacy and the rule
of law. There are existing laws which govern this area of activity.'

Davies emphasized that a very small minority of people were actually involved in
the riots and that the majority of British people were completely against their
actions.

'It was very unfortunate and very sad to witness (the riots). But I

am very positive that Britain will be learning lessons from this and will emerge
as a stronger society,' he stressed.

Social media was cited as a critical factor in recent popular uprisings across
the Arab world. Pro-democracy protests were initiated last December after a
young Tunisian vendor committed suicide after being humiliated by a government
official.

The protests spread rapidly to neighboring countries in the Middle East and
North Africa, overthrowing several long-serving authoritarian leaders, including
Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.

The Arab Spring highlighted the powerful, positive use of social media.

In Korea, however, the popular anti-American beef protests during the spring and
early summer of 2008 featured the negative use of Internet technology.

Hundreds of thousands of protestors turned up for candlelight protests that
lasted for nearly three months in downtown Seoul. They gathered to protest
against the government for its decision to resume American beef imports.

Some turned up after being misled by false information or unconfirmed rumors
about American beef on the Internet.

Some 70 percent of the protestors who took to the streets were reportedly middle
and high school students.

The young protestors described themselves as 'concerned consumers' who didn't
trust the safety of American beef. They said they joined the rallies because
otherwise they could be served the beef at school.

They joined the evening protests after checking the date, time and location of
scheduled events in online chat rooms or Internet forums.

The baseless rumors and false information on American beef prompted some
conservative lawmakers to come up with a set of measures to limit freedom of
association.

This came as merchants near the downtown area sued the organizers of the
protests, as their income took a hit during the month-long collective action.

The protests over American beef in Korea ignited a debate here about whether
freedom of association should be limited in the name of business interests.
Those bills are still pending in parliament.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              570 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Riot Policeman Wants to Serve at Barracks

BYLINE: By Bae Ji-sook

LENGTH: 298 words


Staff Reporter

A riot policeman has asked the government to allow him to serve his remaining
mandatory training in the military rather than with the police out of his
frustration and fatigue with the continuing candlelight vigils in downtown
Seoul.

The Defense Ministry is currently reviewing the unprecedented transfer request.
In Korea, draftees are randomly picked as riot policemen and his two-year
mandatory military service is about to end. Technically, the riot policeman is
under the control of the police.

Lee said Friday that he has filed a petition to the Anti-Corruption & Civil
Rights Commission to seek his transfer to the military from the police because
he could not bear the stress of having to face the protestors as "counterparts
to suppress" at the vigils.

In his petition, he said his job as a riot policeman required something opposite
from his political beliefs, adding that he could not accept what his bosses told
him during operations against protestors during the candlelit vigils.

"It was quite painful for me to clash with protestors. I joined the military to
serve the nation, not to clash with protestors," he said.

It was reported that against his wishes he was ordered to filter out negative
online articles against police at the request of his boss.

He said should he have to start the military service all over again, he is
willing to start another 24-month-service in the military to avoid being a riot
policeman.

The commission is awaiting the ruling from the Defense Ministry before making a
decision on the future of the riot policeman.

The plight of riot policemen is seldom reported on although their harsh
treatment of protestors is extensively covered. Few reports of riot police
victims are seen in the media although civilian victims are widely highlighted.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              571 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday

Political riots

BYLINE: Meghnad Desai

LENGTH: 681  words


Fast forward 38 years and we have a politically engineered riot.

What is it about Muzaffarnagar? In his recently reissued book on the Emergency,
Kuldip Nayar reminds us that in October 1975 it was the site of a
'mini-Jallianwala Bagh'. This was the work of Sanjay Gandhi, now erased from the
family history. He had decided to sterilise as many Muslim male adults as he
could find. The Muslims of Muzaffarnagar did not like what was happening to
them, protested and were shot. But at least that was not a communal riot.

Fast forward 38 years and we have a politically engineered riot. It is as if
someone had written a screenplay for a suspense film. At first small incidents,
followed by a bit of retaliation here and there. Then the pace picks up with a
doctored film clip and passions are aroused. Before you know it, there are
mahapanchayats and a full scale massacre. The police arrive too late-either
under orders or just out of ignorant connivance-but the death and destruction
are real.

A Dutch scholar, Ward Benenschot, has just written about the 2002 Gujarat riots.
Riot Politics is a book which explains the relationships at the grass-roots
which foment such riots. In normal times, citizens cannot get what they are
entitled to from the state. They need agents, intermediaries. Their municipal
councillor or MLA through their chamchas provide access to such services. Given
the political colouring of the area, the Muslim MLA looks after Muslim clients
and Hindus after Hindus.

When trouble starts, this useful machinery is turned into a fighting force. Then
the clients who owe a favour to their leaders are used to throw stones and wield
knives. This enhances the clout of their protectors who then get their votes.
The riots do not normally last a long time. Soon, there is bonhomie among people
who were burning each other's houses. MLAs resume their helpful work and life
reverts to normal.

Riots do not flare up if there is timely police action as soon as there is an
initial disturbance. Police are often stymied by their political masters. There
is vote bank logic in letting your clients suffer before you, their preferred
political party, come to their rescue. If they are unharmed and police have done
their job , how can the MLA get his kudos for protecting his clients? The cycle
has resumed with a mahapanchayat in Meerut, in the BJP's bid for Jat votes.

Uttar Pradesh will be the battleground for 2014. All parties want a large slice
of its 80 seats. The four-cornered contest between the Congress, Samajwadi
Party, BSP and BJP will be furious.  Communal riots are being used to secure
vote banks. Each side will blame the others but the BJP stands to lose most as
it will be recast as the communal party, not as a governance one as Modi wants.
This is just what the secular parties want.

One thousand communal riots have occurred in the past eight years. Yet the total
number of dead was 965, less than one per riot. Muzaffarnagar with 48 casualties
is an extreme case. The Muzaffarnagar riots have not yet yielded any serious
convictions. It is not so much the MLAs and MPs who matter as they will get away
scot-free in any case. One needs to arrest the real culprits at the grass-roots
level.

There is here a paradox. Historically riots such as Bhagalpur, Meerut and
Bhiwandi which happened during the Congress years in power did not lead to any
serious convictions though to many reports and inquiries. The Gujarat riots
have, however, led to convictions; in Godhra itself, both for the people who
allegedly torched the Sabarmati Express carriage in which 59 died, as well as
the Hindu mobs which killed Muslims in the Ode area. There are the Naroda Patiya
convictions in which BJP member Maya Kodnani has been sentenced to 28 years. No
doubt the tally is not over yet.

Is it not strange that no Congress leader has yet been sentenced for 1984 nor
anyone for the Mumbai 1993 riots, or that the riots during Rajiv Gandhi's days
such as Bhagalpur have not led to many convictions? Is it because the Congress
is secular that  no riots during its rule can be communal?

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                             March 14, 2016 Monday

UP riot report confuses, leads to anger

LENGTH: 612  words


LUCKNOW, March 12 -- The Justice Vishnu Sahay Commission report that probed the
Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has put the ruling Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh
in the proverbial Catch-22 situation.

The 700-page report, wrapped in ambiguity and contradictions, may have given the
UP government a clean chit, but it has also cast - albeit, unwittingly -
aspersions on the Samajwadi Party.

The Sahay report gives a clean chit to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the
issue of riots. Ever since the riots took place in September 2013, Samajwadi
Party leaders have been accusing the BJP of engineering the riots.

The Sahay report blows to smithereens the claims, leaving the SP with almost no
ammunition against the BJP for next year's Assembly elections.

"The Vishnu Sahay Commission report has put us in the dock because we can no
longer blame the BJP for the Muzaffarnagar riots. We cannot even rubbish the
report because the commission was set up by us. Besides, by blaming no one in
particular, especially the political parties, the commission has betrayed us. It
has taken the steam out of our campaign for 2017," complained a senior Samajwadi
Party minister.

However, the report has also been rejected by the BJP, which is now demanding a
CBI inquiry into the riots. The BSP too has termed the report as "eyewash".

"We always maintained that it was the SP, which was responsible for the riots
and the report is a desperate bid to save the ruling party. We have been falsely
implicated in the riots and we now demand a CBI probe to unravel the truth,"
said BJP MLA Sangeet Som, who is accused of uploading a fake video that
triggered the riots.

The clean chit to the BJP leaders has angered Muslims in western UP.

Asghar Hussain, a riot victim in Shamli district, says, "We suffered the
maximum: lost out kin, our home, our land. We have been living as refugees since
2013 and now the government wants us to believe that no one is responsible for
the riots. This was the worst cut that we have got from the Samajwadi Party."

The Sahay Commission has found only two persons guilty for the riots, the then
SSP Subhash Chandra Dubey and a local intelligence inspector, Prabal Pratap
Singh.

The commission, while alleging laxity on the part of the local administration,
also underlines the fact that the Uttar Pradesh government is not to be blamed
for what happened in Muzaffarnagar in 2013, but also adds that the transfer of
officials during the riots led to the worsening of the situation. If the state
government did not take this decision, then who did?

The report also said that as far as the Maha Panchayat of 30August 2013 is
concerned, a case against BSP politicians Qadir Rana, Noor Salim Rana, Rashid
Siddiqui, Ehsan Qureshi and others has been already registered and hence no
further action could be taken.

The report, intriguingly, said that no one could be directly held responsible
for the hate speeches and it was an intelligence failure that could not estimate
the expected crowd turnover.

"It is clear that the commission is completely confused in the report. It admits
certain things but says that no one can be blamed. The riots happened but it is
just one officer and an inspector who are being made the scapegoats. The
repeated assertion is on a clean chit to the government," said a retired judge
who did not wish to be named.

The UP IPS Association has decided to take up the issue and seek a review of the
departmental inquiry against their colleague, SSP Dubey.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              573 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           September 28, 2015 Monday

Muzaffarnagar riots 2013: Judicial panel indicts SP, BJP leaders; blame game
starts once again

LENGTH: 274  words


Sources said, two years after Muzaffarnagar riots rocked Uttar Pradesh, the
Judicial Commission has named several local Samajwadi Party and Bharatiya Janata
Party leaders in the report. According to sources, the report has also indicted
some police officers, including the SHO of a local police station for failure to
prevent the riots.

The 775-page report has been submitted to the Governor and will be submitted to
Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav. The single member Justice (retired) Vishnu Sahai
Commission recorded the statement of over 470 people including 100 officials.

It has once again started a blame game with the BJP accusing the SP government
of trying to frame its leaders in the Muzaffarnagar riots.

Commenting on the report, SP leader Gaurav Bhatia said, "BJP is promoting
leaders who were part of the riots. It was BJP which was responsible for the
riots."

The commission had been set up under the 'Commission of Enquiry Act 1952' on
September 9, 2013, in the aftermath of the deadly riots in Muzaffarnagar in
western Uttar Pradesh that had singed other districts as well. The panel was
also asked to investigate administrative lapses, if any, in controlling the
violence in the last week of August 2013 which left about 60 dead and over
40,000 homeless.

The commission, which was asked to submit its report in two months, took seven
extensions and over two years.

The police had already made several arrests and many accused are in jail with
their cases under trial. The report will be tabled in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly
and then it can be made public depending upon the state government's
prerogative. 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              574 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Govt of the day treated victims with 'insensibility', says probe panel

SECTION: PATNA

LENGTH: 710 words


Patna: The Justice (retd) N N Singh Inquiry Commission that probed the Bhagalpur
riots of 1989, has called the violence a "national shame" and said the riots
were "barbaric" in nature. The panel report, tabled in the Bihar legislature on
Friday, has also exhorted the two communities not to get "swayed away by the
provocation of the fanatics". It says the onus of maintaining peace despite
provocations lies on the majority community.

The report's concluding paragraph says, "I must suggest that both Hindus and
Muslims of Bhagalpur particularly should rise to the occasion to respect
religion, faith, belief and rituals of the other, forgetting the ugly past, and
they should not be swayed away by the provocation of the fanatics, and should
maintain communal peace, which alone would help this country to develop.
Religious tolerance is essential for all of us, irrespective of diverse
faiths..."

It added, "It cannot be denied that whoever lighted the spark, the minority
community invariably suffered and though the provocateurs might have escaped,
the wrath always fell on innocent, poor and daily-wage earners." It has also
pointed to the "insensibility" with which the riot victims were "treated by
those who were in power".

Although the Lalu Prasad government formed in 1990 had constituted a commission
to probe the riots, the Nitish Kumar government set up the new commission headed
by Justice Singh in 2006 with a separate set of terms of reference. It submitted
its interim report in 2007, recommending rehabilitation measures for the riot
victims on the pattern of anti-Sikh riots, and also opened 28 of the 583 police
cases in which final (closure) reports were submitted.

The riots in Bhagalpur town started on October 24 in 1989 when countrywide
preparations were on for a proposed 'shila pujan' at Ayodhya. The violence soon
spread to rural areas of Bhagalpur and Banka districts, and could be controlled
only by October 27 after the Army was called in and three-day curfew imposed. It
claimed over 1,000 lives of Hindus and Muslims, and was marked by arson,
demolition of mosques

times news network

BHAGALPUR RIOTS OF '89

Patna: The Justice (retd) N N Singh Inquiry Commission that probed the Bhagalpur
riots of 1989, has called the violence a "national shame" and said the riots
were "barbaric" in nature. The panel report, tabled in the Bihar legislature on
Friday, has also exhorted the two communities not to get "swayed away by the
provocation of the fanatics". It says the onus of maintaining peace despite
provocations lies on the majority community.

The report's concluding paragraph says, "I must suggest that both Hindus and
Muslims of Bhagalpur particularly should rise to the occasion to respect
religion, faith, belief and rituals of the other, forgetting the ugly past, and
they should not be swayed away by the provocation of the fanatics, and should
maintain communal peace, which alone would help this country to develop.
Religious tolerance is essential for all of us, irrespective of diverse
faiths..."

It added, "It cannot be denied that whoever lighted the spark, the minority
community invariably suffered and though the provocateurs might have escaped,
the wrath always fell on innocent, poor and daily-wage earners." It has also
pointed to the "insensibility" with which the riot victims were "treated by
those who were in power".

Although the Lalu Prasad government formed in 1990 had constituted a commission
to probe the riots, the Nitish Kumar government set up the new commission headed
by Justice Singh in 2006 with a separate set of terms of reference. It submitted
its interim report in 2007, recommending rehabilitation measures for the riot
victims on the pattern of anti-Sikh riots, and also opened 28 of the 583 police
cases in which final (closure) reports were submitted.

The riots in Bhagalpur town started on October 24 in 1989 when countrywide
preparations were on for a proposed 'shila pujan' at Ayodhya. The violence soon
spread to rural areas of Bhagalpur and Banka districts, and could be controlled
only by October 27 after the Army was called in and three-day curfew imposed. It
claimed over 1,000 lives of Hindus and Muslims, and was marked by arson,
demolition of mosques

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              575 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cops spent an extra $2 million on investigation

BYLINE: The Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Investigating the 2011 hockey riot has cost Vancouver police $2 million in
overtime and other expenses.

The VPD dedicated 50 to 70 officers and staff from other departments to its riot
squad since last June 15. Police report it spent another $5 million, mostly on
base salaries, on what it called the largest investigation of its kind in
Canadian history.

But those were costs the Vancouver police would have spent anyway, said the head
of the riot squad, Insp. Les Yeo, in the first public accounting of the costs of
policing the riot.

Other area police forces spent $2 million on staff salaries for those who worked
on the investigation, again from their regular budgets, he said.

"The amount we spent that we wouldn't have spent if there was no riot was $2
million," said Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu after the monthly police board
meeting on Wednesday.

Yeo estimated the damage amounted to $3 million from the riot. There was damage
to 89 businesses and 113 vehicles, a third of which were police vehicles, said
Yeo.

Crown has approved 225 of 508 recommended charges. Yeo said officers are
recommending 100 more charges. Three people have pleaded guilty and "there are
more to come," said Yeo.

Vancouver Provin ce

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver police learn from riots

BYLINE: Derek Abma, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 315  words


Vancouver's chief of police admitted Friday he would have handled Wednesday's
riot differently, had he known then what he knows now.

"When you review the riot, even among my own officers, there's lots of
could-haves, should-haves," Chief Jim Chu said at a news conference updating how
the city is dealing with the aftermath of the violent mayhem that broke out
after the Vancouver Canucks lost to the Boston Bruins in Game 7 of the Stanley
Cup final.

"Knowing what I know now, there's many things I would've done differently," Chu
said when asked whether cars should been banned from streets in the downtown
core during the game -something that was suggested in an analysis commissioned
by the B.C. government in the wake of the 1994 riot that followed another
Canucks loss in a Stanley Cup final.

Although Chu did not explicitly say he would have kept cars away, he did say he
would have put more officers on duty in the outdoor area where a crowd of about
100,000 people watched the game on big-screen TVs.

Chu said authorities are working to prosecute those involved in the riot. He
said charges of arson, mischief, unlawful assembly and participation in a riot
are pending for at least one male, who will be identified once charges are laid.

Meanwhile, RCMP in the Vancouver suburb of Burnaby, B.C., said a 17-yearold was
brought into a detachment by family members who saw images of him looting on the
Internet.

Police said this person, who cannot be identified because his age, is facing
charges of break, enter and theft, and mischief to property over $5,000 in
relation to the looting of a Louis Vuitton store and the destruction of a police
car that was overturned.

One bright note ended a bruising week for the Vancouver Police: officers found
one of their cruisers on Granville Street Friday covered from roof to fenders in
sticky notes by citizens expressing gratitude for their efforts.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postrmedia News; They can kiss their anonymity goodbye. The couple
photographed kissing on the ground amid of the chaos of Vancouver's riot
Wednesday night have been identified. Media reports say the pair are 29-year-old
Australian Scott Jones and his girlfriend Canadian Alex Thomas. Thomas is
reportedly a studentat the University of Guelph. Jones's family told the
Australian news website Ninemsn that her brother and Thomas had recently started
dating. They said Thomas had fallen in the fray with police officersand was
upset, so Jones was trying to comfort her.; Jenelle Schneider, Postmedia News;
Tourists from Italy joined hundreds of people who sticky-noted words of
gratitude on a police cruiser in Vancouver on Friday.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              577 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

RIOT softball ends big season

BYLINE: Ed Castro

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 312 words


The Redlands-based RIOT 18 and Under Softball Club just completed its fourth
season.

And it was the club s best season of travel ball so far.

This summer was the most amazing time we have had,  RIOT founder Howard Zelener
said.  It s the most mature team we have had. It was a great experience with
great hitting, great pitching and great defense. The girls had such great
attitudes.

RIOT capped its season by winning the 2014 United States Speciality Sports
Association World Series at the Big League Dreams facility in West Covina.

RIOT consists of players from Redlands, Corona, Yucaipa, Anaheim Hills,
Wrightwood, Rancho Cucamonga, Fontana, La Habra, Indio, the High Desert and Las
Vegas.

It s a very high level of softball,  Zelener said.  A lot of the girls know each
other and have played against each other. And some of them will see each other
in college.

RIOT won, 8-5, over Rancho Cucamonga s Batbusters-Team Mizuno in the
championship game. RIOT finished the series with a 9-0 record and outscored
opponents 64-20.

RIOT s World Series run was a showcase for RIOT first baseman Alix Zelener and
pitcher Heather Morales. Zelener was named the World Series MVP. She hit .565
with 2 home runs, 13 RBIs, and two game-winning hits.

Morales, about to begin her sophomore season at the University of Hawaii, was
7-0 and finished with a 1.17 ERA, striking out 51 batters in 42 innings of work.

She was a dominant player,  Zelener said.  But the thing that was impressive was
her presence in the circle and on the field. She is really one of those
take-charge athletes that puts the team on her back.

RIOT compiled a 30-8 season record. The team also took top honors in the Pony
World Series in Hemet and finished second in the USSSA Route 66 Tournament in
Fontana.

The last couple years we ve won three or four travel ball tournaments,  Zelener
said.  It s been pretty amazing.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              578 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Congress rues Rahul resurrecting 1984 riots, giving Modi an edge

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Feb. 1 -- Congress is concerned that Rahul Gandhi has inserted
anti-Sikh riots into the political discourse, shrinking its elbow room to attack
Narendra Modi on the issue of anti-Muslim carnage.

Rising protests from Sikh groups and the figuring of 1984 riots in news
bulletins has put Congress in the firing line of the 1984 riots that was till
now confined to individuals like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler. Even in 2009,
the drama over anti-Sikh riots was provoked by the limited issue of Congress
giving election tickets to Kumar and Tytler before retracting.

If the Sikh riots continue to dominate headlines, they could draw parity between
Congress and BJP among opinion-makers and a defensive "secular" party would be
hamstrung in raising the ante against Modi on the issue of riots.

The key worry is the 1984 issue may now figure in every public interaction Modi
makes and it would be difficult to duck the issue.

With each passing day that Congress is having to defend itself, there ruling
camp feels it is losing its aggressive edge against Modi. It may be an advantage
for the Hindutva strongman who is trying his best to soften his rough edges
dating back to anti-Muslim riots and appear a moderate.

This has implications for the post-election scenario given that BJP would be
needing allies who have "secular" roots. That NCP is already making conciliatory
noises in favour of the Gujarat chief minister is an eye-opener.

There is a sense of regret in Congress that Rahul could not tackle the question
on riots effectively. While conceding too much ground, without putting Modi on
the defensive on Gujarat riots, his ambivalent response prised open the 1984
issue for debate.

Instead, he could have simply referred to the apologies issued by Congress chief
Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 10 years ago. When cornered, he
could have apologized in line with senior Congress leaders and settled the issue
for good. Many in the party blame the poor background briefing to Rahul for the
fiasco.

Now, there is hope that Rahul would make up for the lapse in the coming TV
interviews that are lined up. While leaders are happy that the reluctant leader
has finally decided to communicate with the public and interact with the press,
they would want him to appear engaged. This when future interactions may not be
easy to navigate now that he has bared the chinks in his armour.

Amid the post-interview disappointment, a big plus for insiders is that he
managed to keep his cool and did not walk out like Modi did with a famous TV
anchor. It would have been disastrous PR in the present negative atmosphere.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              579 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

riots in brief

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws lead news 01.pgl; Pg.3

LENGTH: 123 words


Mong Kok riot of 2016

Number of fatalities: none

Number of people arrested: 69

Number of people injured: about 130, including 90 police officers

Star Ferry riot of 1966

Number of fatalities: 1

Number of people injured: 26

Number of people arrested: 1,465 (of whom 905 were charged with breach

of curfew and other offences)

Hong Kong riots of 1967

Number of fatalities: 51, including 15 in bomb attacks

Number of people injured: 832

Number of people convicted: 1,936

England riots of 2011

Number of fatalities: 5

Number of people injured: 202, including 186 police officers

Number of people arrested: nearly 4,000

Ferguson riots (Missouri, US) of 2014 and 2015

Number of people injured: 16, including six police officers

Number of people arrested: 321

Gary Cheung

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              580 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    November 25, 2015 Wednesday 2:26 PM GMT

Run the Jewels' Killer Mike: 'I'm an American because of a riot';
As Ferguson marks the one-year anniversary of Michael Brown's killing, Killer
Mike and El-P talk about the power of protest

BYLINE: Guardian music

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 266 words


Run the Jewels have described the power of protest in the wake of the one-year
anniversary of the fatal shooting of Michael Brown. The rap duo, who have been
vocal during the #BlackLivesMatter movement, said that the riots were
instrumental in enforcing change in the US.

"I'm an American because of a riot," Killer Mike told the BBC. "So, when people
say 'riots don't work,' well, Ferguson was over 60% a black community. They had
less than 60% representation in politics. Post-riots, they have two new black
city council members. They have actual advocates in the community now. The
police chief retired. So, if it was argued that riots worked in Ferguson,
abso-fucking-lutely they did."

Run the Jewels also described "the weird, tragic and serendipitous experience"
of entering St Louis during the Ferguson verdict in 2014, when "everyone else
was driving as fast as they could to get out of [the city]".

Audience-shot footage of their show there went viral, as an emotional Killer
Mike quoted Martin Luther King, Jr and expressed fears for his children's future
during the performance.

El-P told the BBC: "Every word that you're saying all of a sudden means 100
times more than it meant the night before. To see my friend talk, I was crying
onstage. It was very powerful," El-P told the BBC.

The past year, Killer Mike has established himself as an influential speaker on
US race relations. He has since stated his desire to run as a state
representative in Georgia, has appeared on CNN and has hosted a number of
university lectures  in the wake of police brutality in the US.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              581 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

Oklahoma City church to host free screening of Tulsa Race Riots documentary at
Oklahoma History Center

BYLINE: BY CARLA HINTON Religion Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 377 words


Northeast Church of Christ will host a free screening of the documentary "Hate
Crimes in the Heartland" on Saturday at the Oklahoma History Center.The film
explores U.S. hate crimes through the lens of the 1921 Tulsa Race Riots and the
2012 "Good Friday murders" in Tulsa.The Rev. Arnelious Crenshaw Jr., the
church's minister, said he has had an ongoing interest in the Tulsa Race Riots
of 1921 because he grew up in Tulsa and his family eventually owned a business
near the corner of Greenwood Avenue and Brady Street.Crenshaw said his school
history books did not include anything about the infamous riots that left
numerous people dead, thousands homeless and destroyed the Greenwood district.
He said he later learned that he had attended church with some of the survivors
of the riot and none of them spoke about it."It was as though it was completely
written out of history," Crenshaw said.'Lest We Forget'Emmy Award-winning
director Rachel Lyon directed "Hate Crimes in the Heartland."

Northeast Church of Christ commissioned Lyon to produce "Lest We Forget," a
documentary about the church and its 75 years of history, and Crenshaw said he
saw how the themes of racial segregation in Oklahoma and the troubles related to
the Tulsa Race Riots were part of the history chronicled in both
documentaries.In addition to the Tulsa Race Riots, "Hate Crimes in the
Heartland" explores the so-called "Good Friday murders" in April 2012 in Tulsa
when two white men drove through the predominantly black Greenwood neighborhood
randomly targeting blacks, killing three people and wounding two others.Crenshaw
said his church is one of the national "Hate Crimes in the Heartland" partners
who are dedicated to sharing the film with audiences across the country. Other
national partners include Harvard Law School's John Hamilton Houston Institute
on Race and Justice; DePaul University's Center for Justice in Capital Cases,
UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs, the National Underground Railroad Freedom
Center in Cincinnati, Ohio, Northern Kentucky University and New Jersey City
University.Crenshaw said a panel discussion will be held after the film
screening, with director Lyon serving as one of the panelists, along with
several local community and church leaders.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              584 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Post-riots, UPA to push for communal violence bill

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 611 words


NEW DELHI: More than a month after communal riots in Muzaffarnagar claimed over
50 lives and less than six months before the Lok Sabha poll, the Union home
ministry has dusted the draft communal violence bill, hanging fire since 2005.
Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde on Monday said he was working on
provisions of the Bill, some of which are being objected to by parties like the
BJP as well as state governments.

Stating that the MHA was moving ahead with the Prevention of Communal and
Targeted Violence Bill that aims to protect minorities against targeted attacks,
Shinde said he had "sought details of the bill from the concerned department".
"The work has begun on the bill," he told reporters.

The push for the bill also came from minority affairs minister K Rahman Khan,
who noted that the Muzaffarnagar riots had underlined inadequacies in existing
laws to deal with communal clashes. He pitched for tabling of the anti-riots
Bill in the ensuing winter session, but added that "the decision has to be taken
by the government."

When asked if the bill could come up in winter session, Shinde said he was not
sure.

The bill has been gathering dust despite being cleared by a parliamentary
standing committee in end-2006. Though the parliamentary panel was able to
resolve differences over a controversial provision that allowed the Centre to
send forces on its own to a communally disturbed area, it could not be
subsequently taken up by Parliament despite notices being given for its
consideration and passage in successive sessions.

Then came the intervention by Sonia Gandhi-headed National Advisory Council
(NAC), which decided to re-examine the bill in 2010 and came up with a revised
draft bill in 2011. The controversial provisions in this new draft ran into
opposition from the ministries of home as well as law, especially the one
providing for penalizing of government officials who failed to prevent or
control communal violence. There was also opposition to only "minorities" being
recognized as the group targeted during riots.

Another controversial provision that ran foul with many state governments
related to creation of a National Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and
Reparation with sweeping powers to probe occurrence or likely occurrence of
communal riots and also to review effectiveness of steps taken by government
officials towards prevention of communal violence.

The NAC draft almost pushed the communal violence bill into cold storage.
However, with the Muzaffarnagar riots renewing demands for enactment of an anti-
riots bill, the Union home ministry has now revived efforts to streamline
divergence of opinion over its provisions.

The demand for enactment of the anti-riots bill is expected to dominate
proceedings at the convention against communalism scheduled for October 30.
Being organized by non-Congress and non-BJP parties, it will mount pressure on
the UPA to have a strong legal framework in place to deal with riots and
rehabilitate riot victims.

Congress appeared in favour of the bill. Spokesman Sandeep Dikshit said the bill
was "pending discussion" but underlined it was an important legislation that
would have a far-reaching effect.

After the Muzaffarnagar violence, CPM's full Polit Bureau meeting had said the
violence in western UP has come in the "background of the systematic efforts to
raise communal tensions and provoke violence by the RSS outfits." CPM also
blamed the Uttar Pradesh administration for not being vigilant. The party said,
"In this connection, the Polit Bureau wants the Prevention of Communal Violence
Bill to be taken up expeditiously and adopted."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Riots sparked by social breakdown

BYLINE: KAREN KISSANE EUROPE CORRESPONDENT LONDON

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 367 words


ENGLAND'S riots were partly caused by the deprivation of "500,000 forgotten
families who bump along the bottom of society", an independent report into last
August's violence has concluded.

"There are people bumping along the bottom, unable to change their lives. When
people don't feel they have a reason to stay out of trouble, the consequences
for communities can be devastating," said Darra Singh, the chairman of the Riots
, Communities and Victims Panel.

The report also pointed to widespread illiteracy, hopelessness over youth
unemployment, poor parenting, materialism, suspicion of police and the failure
of the justice system to rehabilitate offenders as factors behind the unrest.

The government, which had appointed the panel, refused to comment because the
report had been leaked and was only due out overnight.

The panel was appointed by Prime Minister David Cameron after riots erupted in
London, Birmingham, Manchester and other big cities following the police
shooting of a young black man, Mark Duggan.

The report said too many of the most vulnerable children and young people were
failed by the system, with one-fifth of secondary school-leavers having literacy
at or below the level expected of an 11-year-old.

It follows comments last week from London mayor Boris Johnson that in seven
London boroughs, 25 per cent of children left school functionally illiterate, a
figure that rose to nearly 50 per cent in particular schools.

The report said schools should be made to pay for special English lessons for
struggling students and they should assess children's strength of character and
help them build "self-discipline, application, the ability to defer
gratification and resilience in recovering from setbacks".

It recommended that specialist nurses advise all first-time mothers under 18,
that schools and social services contact absent fathers about their children,
and the establishment of a "youth job promise" for young people out of work for
more than two years. Britain has nearly a million jobless aged under 25.

The report found that 15,000 mostly young people took part in the violence, with
"countless more bystanders observing".

Looting made up more than half the recorded offences.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              586 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police insensitivity blamed over the summer riots

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 164 words


THE summer riots were fuelled by "insensitive" rather than "inadequate"
policing, academics have concluded.

Researchers found that the widespread lawlessness was not just "simple
criminality", as some have argued, but a result of grievance and lack of
opportunity.

They warned that Britain would be "sleepwalking to catastrophe" if it did not
fix the social ills that sparked the rioting.

Prof Steve Reicher, of the School of Psychology at the University of St Andrews,
and Dr Clifford Stott, of the University of Liverpool, studied the riots for a
book, Mad Mobs and Englishmen?.

They said the initial riots in Tottenham, north London, rose out of
long-standing grievances between the local community and the police, and
"insensitive policing" following the shooting of Mark Duggan. Mr Duggan, 29, was
killed by police after the vehicle he was in was stopped.

Prof Reicher said: "These riots began because the police failed to engage with
local communities, not because they were too soft."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

Chinese riot squad leaves for UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Advance Group of China's Seventh Riot Squad Leaves for Haiti"]

Beijing, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) - A 30-member advance group from China's seventh riot
squad for the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping mission left here for Haiti on
Monday.

Upon arrival, the advance group would immediately start a handover process with
their predecessors. Another 95 riot policemen would leave in mid August, said
riot police headquarters director Wu Dongsheng.

With an average age of 30, the 125 riot police, including five female police
officers, have passed strict exams in English, shooting, driving, and stamina.

The squad, mostly border-control police in the country's northwest Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region, will replace the sixth peacekeeping squad that has been
in Haiti since December.

The seventh squad will serve eight months in Haiti.

China has participated in UN peacekeeping missions in the Caribbean country
since 2004.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1005 gmt 4 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              588 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Rapper Snoop and 30-strong crew go on the rampage at Heathrow;
WITNESSES SAY 20-STONE MINDERS 'THREW OFF POLICE LIKE PILLOWS'

BYLINE: BO WILSON; MATHEUS SANCHEZ

SECTION: LSE 04; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 277 words


A RIOT erupted at Heathrow airport after rapper Snoop Dogg and a 30-strong
entourage clashed with police in a departure lounge.

The men - mostly minders - apparently turned violent after being refused entry
to a firstclass lounge, smashing up a duty free shop, throwing bottles and
attacking officers.

It took riot police over an hour to arrest the "20-stone men", who were then led
out in handcuffs, with one shouting: "This is how it goes down in LA."

Witnesses believe the group, who were travelling from the US to South Africa,
were refused entry to the British Airways lounge as only a few had firstclass
tickets. It is thought they became abusive towards staff and were turned away
from their flight, running riot when police tried to guide them out of the
airport.

Six men, including the 34-yearold American rapper, were arrested. A Heathrow
worker, who took photos from his mobile phone, said: "There were all these huge,
20-stone men smashing up display cabinets and throwing people around. I saw
Snoop Dogg on the ground, with four riot police trying to put him in handcuffs.
His minders were throwing bottles at people.

"There were 15 riot vans and eight police cars outside, with dog sniffer units.
They were throwing the policemen around like pillows. Then the police used
pepper spray on them." The row is thought to have been witnessed by Ronan
Keating, who was in the Terminal 1 lounge.

Snoop Dogg, real name Calvin Broadus, is a former drug dealer and gang member.
He comes from one of LA's most notorious areas and has been accused of several
crimes including murder, although he was acquitted.

Six men have been arrested for violent disorder and affray.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.AP SHEET: ONE OF SNOOP'S ENTOURAGE IS LED AWAY. LEFT, A SNOOP DOGG
ALBUM 2.G DAY: SNOOP DOGG, 34, WHO ONLOOKERS SAID WAS PINNED DOWN AND HANDCUFFED
BY FOUR RIOT POLICE IN THE RIOT AT HEATHROW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              589 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Reading the Riots - live Q&A with Sir Hugh Orde, Paul McKeever and Sir Denis
O'Connor

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Sir Hugh Orde of Acpo, Paul McKeever of the Police Federation, and Sir Denis
O'Connor, the outgoing chief inspector of constabulary, will be here live from
midday BST to answer your questions on Reading the Riots

FULL TEXT

On Sunday the Guardian began publishing part two of its groundbreaking
collaboration with the London School of Economics - Reading the Riots.

The second part of this comprehensive study into the English riots of last
summer has involved more than 300 interviews with those affected by the riots,
including 130 police officers deployed in London, Birmingham, Manchester,
Salford and Liverpool.

The study found that police expect a repeat of the riots, and are concerned
about whether they will have the resources to cope with future unrest on that
scale.

Officers interviewed said further disorder was likely, with many citing
worsening social and economic conditions as the potential cause of further riots
.

There was considerable concern among police that their ability to deal with any
future disorder may be affected by the scale of the budget cuts currently
affecting forces. You can read a summary of the findings from our interviews
with 130 police officers here, and you can read all our coverage in full here.

To discuss the findings today we are pleased to welcome Sir Hugh Orde, the
president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Paul McKeever, the
chairman of the Police Federation, and Sir Denis O'Connor, the outgoing chief
inspector of constabulary.

McKeever will be online from midday until 1pm.

Orde will be online from 12.30pm to 1.30pm.

O'Connor will be online from 1.15pm to 2pm.

Sir Hugh Orde joined the Metropolitan police in 1977 where as a commander he
developed Operation Trident, an operation set up to deal with serious
drug-related crime in London. In September 2002 he was appointed chief constable
of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, and during his seven years in that
job he increased Catholic recruitment and won the support of unprecedented
numbers of nationalists and Catholics. He was appointed vice-president of the
Association of Chief Police Officers, the senior officers' forum for best
practice in the police, in 2006, and in 2009 became its president.

Paul McKeever's policing career began in 1977 at the Metropolitan police. He
served in Lambeth until 1989 and policed the Brixton riots in 1981 and 1985. He
was elected to the Police Federation, the staff association for rank and file
officers, in 1992, and appointed chairman in 2008.

Sir Denis O'Connor is the outgoing chief inspector of constabulary. He joined
the Metropolitan police in 1968 and was chief constable of Surrey police from
2000 to 2004. O'Connor has reviewed the 2011 riots, as well as the policing of
public protests following the G20 in London in 2009, value for money in the
police force, antisocial behaviour, and policing in a time of austerity.

What do they think of the findings? Do they agree that riots are likely to
happen again? Does the ongoing recession play a part in that? Will the police
cuts leave forces less able to tackle future unrest? Should the Metropolitan
police have called in more help from outside forces sooner, and made sure all
its radio equipment was totally compatible?Post your questions below.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 24, 2013 Saturday

Reports forged to claim relief in name of 1984 riot victims

BYLINE: Prawesh Lama

LENGTH: 336  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Police are probing what appears to be a racket involving claims for compensation
in the name of victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

In the past one month alone, the Economic Offences Wing registered two cases of
cheating and forgery against unidentified persons who sent two forged police
reports to the Kanjhawala sub-divisional magistrate, citing the cases of 17
persons who died in the riots.

In one case, police have identified a woman from Jahangirpuri who was trying to
claim a compensation of Rs 49 lakh for the death of seven persons.

She has been named as an accused but is still to be arrested.

Police suspect the role of an insider in the office of the Kanjhawala deputy
commissioner and have begun questioning the clerks there.

The two forged reports at the SDM office were shown to have been sent by the
Deputy Commissioner of Police of the anti-riot cell in October 2012.

The reports had the names of the riot victims. Earlier this month, the
Kanjhawala DC wrote to the Deputy Commissioner

of Police, anti-riot cell, seeking clarification on the reports.

The police officers were stunned because the two reports had not been issued
from their office. It was then that an inspector of the cell lodged a formal
complaint with the economic offences wing.

"Initially, we did not register a case. We conducted an inquiry which revealed
that no such report from the office of the anti-riot cell had been sent to the
office of the Kanjhawala SDM. The letter number mentioned in the forged report
was not of any matter related to the anti-Sikh riots. It had to do with some
information sent by the cell under an RTI plea," a police source said.

The signature of the Deputy Commissioner of Police in the report had also been
forged, the source said.

When his comments were sought, Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) Sandeep Goel
said: "We have registered two FIRs so far. Two cases of forged reports have come
to our notice. I do not want to make any comment about the people behind this.
We have started investigations."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

5 face riot charges in beating incident

BYLINE: Liz Markhlevskaya, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


Dec. 03--ROCHESTER -- Five young men are facing felony charges in connection
with a riot that occurred in September at Spaulding High School, where one
17-year-old victim was attacked by several assailants.

Rochester residents Dylan Boston, 17, Michael Burke, 18, Zachary Colbroth, 19,
Cody Cook, 19, and Shamel Jackson-Dixon, 19, were recently indicted in Strafford
County Superior Court for allegedly being involved in the riot, which occurred
near Hanson Pines outside of school hours. During the riot, four of the men
allegedly attacked one 17-year-old boy, who was kicked and punched in the head
and face, said Police Capt. Gary Boudreau. He said the victim was taken to the
hospital after suffering injuries that were not believed to be life-threatening.

According to Boudreau, the riot occurred during a varsity football game on Sept.
5, around 8:30 p.m., in the parking lot near Hanson Pines. He said the incident
began as a verbal argument between several people that started escalating as
bystanders gathered around the scene. One of the bystanders, the 17-year-old who
was attacked, interfered in an attempt to diffuse the situation and became the
target of assaults.

Burke, of 21 Norway Plains Road, Apt. 13, allegedly punched the victim in the
head. Colbroth, who lived with Burke, allegedly kicked the 17-year-old victim in
the head. Cook, of 4 Clearview Drive, allegedly punched him in the chest.

Jackson-Dixon, of 8 Lafayette St., Apt. A, allegedly kicked the riot victim in
the face while the victim was on the ground.

Boston, of 52 Hanson St., is not accused of assaulting the 17-year-old riot
victim, but is charged with pushing another man in the chest and threatening him
by saying, "I'll bang you out," or words to that effect.

All five men were recently indicted on the riot charge, which is a Class B
felony. It alleges they were involved in violent conduct involving two or more
people in which they purposely created a substantial risk of causing public
alarm. The riot charge carries a maximum sentence of 3 1/2  to 7 years in prison
if they are convicted.

In addition to the riot charges, Burke, Colbroth, and Cook were indicted on
Class A misdemeanor simple assault charges, and Jackson-Dixon was indicted on
Class B felony second-degree assault charge, for allegedly assaulting the
17-year-old riot victim.

Burke and Colbroth were also indicted on Class A misdemeanor criminal trespass
charges, for allegedly entering Spaulding High School property after being
prohibited to do so.

Boston is also charged with criminal threatening and simple assault, both Class
A misdemeanors.

It is unknown whether any of the riot suspects are students at Spaulding High
School. According to Boudreau, at least three of the suspects are not students.
School officials did not respond to Foster's inquiries by press time on Tuesday.

Boston and Cook are scheduled to appear for arraignment today at Strafford
County Superior Court. Arraignments for Burke and Jackson-Dixon are scheduled
for Thursday and arraignment for Colbroth is scheduled for Dec. 15.

___ (c)2014 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141203-1FD-5-face-riot-charges-in-beating-incident-1203-20141203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2014 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


                              592 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Faizabad Riots: Centre seeks report from Akhilesh Yadav government

BYLINE: Aman Sharma

SECTION: POLITICS/NATION

LENGTH: 429 words


NEW DELHI: The home ministry has sought a detailed report from the Akhilesh
Yadav government on communal riots in Faizabad, last month, after the Uttar
Pradesh government shied away from submitting any report.

The Centre is concerned as the UP police has not submitted even a single
charge-sheet yet in eight major riots that happened during the tenure of the
Samajwadi Party government.

The state government has informally told the Centre that they have lodged 55
cases related to the Faizabad communal riots and arrested 144 persons, but has
so far submitted no report to the Centre on why the riots could not be
controlled in time.

Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had termed the Faizabad riots a "conspiracy
against his government" but the Centre is looking for a concrete report from the
state on the whole episode as it expects BSP and BJP to strongly raise the issue
in the upcoming winter session of Parliament.

"The home minister will also have to give a reply in the House on the communal
situation in UP, as there is bound to be a discussion on the matter," a senior
official said.

A home ministry official pointed out that a specific advisory, both from the
home ministry and the Intelligence Bureau, was sent to the Uttar Pradesh
government after a riot had broken out in Ghaziabad in September, warning UP of
similar communal outbreaks in other cities. Yet there were riots in Faizabad for
a number of days, leaving four dead.

A home ministry official said that there had been no significant arrests made
for the Ghaziabad riot, where six persons were killed. An ongoing probe by the
UP Police suggests someone deliberately desecrated a religious text and wrote
objectionable words on it to create communal tensions.

There have been two dozen arrests for rioting in the first communal outbreak
under SP rule this year in Mathura on June 1, but only a person has been booked
for murder though four persons had died, sources say.

There were riots in Pratapgarh in June, Bareilly in July and August, followed by
riots in Lucknow and Allahabad in August and then in Faizabad in October. Home
ministry officials say the communal situation in UP has always been sensitive.

Among all states, UP has reported the maximum number of communal incidents, 364,
between 2009 and 2011 which claimed 64 lives and left 1,298 injured.

"The pattern of riots in UP in the last six months indicate a sinister attempt
to create mischief by some elements soon after a new government came to power.
The links between these riots need to be probed," an official said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              593 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riot police move in as rival supporters fight in stands;
Trouble after England fans get into home end 'No surrender' chant stirs memories
of past violence

BYLINE: MattLaw

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 540 words


Riot police were called into the LFF Stadium after fighting broke out between
England and Lithuania fans last night.

A number of England supporters appeared to have bought tickets in the home end,
which angered Lithuania fans ahead of kick-off.

As the Lithuania fans appeared to set upon visiting supporters behind the goal
England were defending in the first half, riot police moved in to form a human
wall. Rather than try to eject the England fans, the riot police penned
Lithuania supporters into one corner.

After Ross Barkley broke the deadlock for England, riot police sprayed liquid at
the Lithuania fans to stop them getting at the celebrating visiting supporters
as the situation threatened to turn ugly.

The presence of the riot police did not stop England fans in the wrong end
singing the national anthem and chanting: "No surrender to the IRA." England's
official allocation of tickets was at one side of the ground that was separated
from the home support.

The Football Association has strict rules on away travel, with tickets for
members of the England Supporters Travel Club having to be collected from a
pre-determined landmark in the city of the game.

The Lithuanian FA is likely to be fined by Uefa for not ensuring that the fans
were properly segregated, while England's governing body may also have to answer
questions on the incident.

BBC Radio 5 Live commentator Alan Green was infuriated by the behaviour of some
of the England supporters. "There are riot police in the stands to our right,"
he said.

"I don't know what sparked it, but I have seen missiles being thrown. Just
awful, absolutely awful. So out of keeping with the day we've had in this
beautiful city."

There is a particular sensitivity within the FA about the 'No Surrender' chant
because of its association with extreme right-wing elements among England
supporters. The chant went up last spring during the 1-1 friendly draw with
Italy at the Juventus Stadium in Turin. Before that, some England supporters
sang "F--- the IRA" during the 3-1 victory against Scotland at Celtic Park.

The incidents led to concerted efforts by the England hierarchy to avoid a
repeat at the match with the Republic of Ireland in Dublin in June. The previous
meeting between the two nations in the Irish capital in 1995 was overshadowed by
ugly scenes of English fans rioting within the stadium, causing the match to be
abandoned.

Before the rematch last June, the England captain Wayne Rooney and manager Roy
Hodgson urged supporters not to goad their Irish counterparts, with Hodgson
saying: "It [1995] was a bad time for English football and the behaviour of
English fans and it was a bad time in Ireland. You would like to think in 20
years things have moved on considerably on both fronts." Fortunately that game
in June passed off without any crowd trouble, except for Raheem Sterling being
barracked by both sets of supporters over his contract stand-off at Liverpool.

There was controversy of another sort in the away dugout last night, as the
Danish referee, Kenn Hansen, came over to the touchline to speak to both Hodgson
and his assistant Ray Lewington.

Lewington was clearly angry and Hodgson could be heard telling him: "Ray, calm
down, don't give him the satisfaction."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flashpoint: Riot police move in among the crowd in Vilnius last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              594 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Imphal Free Press (India)

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Muslim body seeks compensation for 1993 Meitei-Meitei Pangal riot victims

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: IMPHAL


IMPHAL, Jan. 11 -- The State should take the initiative and recommend to the
Prime Minister to compensate the victim families of the unfortunate May 1993
Meitei-Meitei Pangal riot, said Pangal (Manipuri Muslim) Political

Forum Manipur spokesperson MI Khan during a press meet at the Manipur Press Club
today.

He said that the government compensation provided to the victim families during
the time was only in namesake.

The organisation would have to take the help of the law in case the government
fails to listen to the demand he warned.

In an unfortunate riot between the two communities ignited by a simple mistake
in 1993, 140 people were killed including three whole families and 25 others
were injured he said.

The riot was controlled only after the intervention of several civil
organisations of the State MI Khan said.

Many of the victims of the riot are still surviving under difficult conditions
he asserted.

The NDA government had last month provided Rs 3 lakhs and Rs 5 lakhs monetary
assistance to the victims of the 1984 Punjab riot, MI Khan observed
strengthening the organisation's demand.

As the government has provided the compensation to the Punjab riot it is only
pertinent that the victims of the Meitei-Meitei Pangal riot are also
compensated, MI Khan continued.

General secretary Abdul Jabar said victim families of the 1993 riot should come
forward and contact the Hatta office of the organisation before January 30 as it
is trying to submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister through the State Chief
Minister after listing out the names of the victims.

Meanwhile, PPF women's wing president Leina Shahani also warned of serious
agitation in case the demand is not fulfilled.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Imphal Free Press. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Imphal Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              595 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

1984 riots worse than 2002 violence: VK Singh

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 19 -- BJP leader and former Indian Army chief General VK Singh
on Tuesday hit out at Congress, saying it was wrong to do politics over riots.

Singh also said that the number of fatalities during 1984 anti-Sikh riots were
more than the ones recorded in 2002 Gujarat riots.

In his sharpest attack on Narendra Modi over the post-Godhra riots, Congress
vice president Rahul Gandhi, while talking to a news agency, dismissed BJP's
contention that the Gujarat Chief Minister had been given a clean chit by the
Supreme Court-appointed SIT and the courts.

"As you know, the SIT report had been seriously questioned by a number of
credible experts. Grave flaws have been pointed out in the functioning of the
SIT. The acceptance of the flawed SIT report by the lowest court has not yet
been subjected to judicial scrutiny by higher courts," he said.

The BJP had reacted angrily to Rahul Gandhi's remarks on Narendra Modi's alleged
role in 2002 riots, accusing him of raising the "old bogey" as he has no answers
to the "failures" of the Congress-led UPA government.

BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said people and even Muslims and every
section of society have moved much ahead of 2002. "We never justify riots. We
used force to quell the riots but the Congress justified the 1984 pogrom and
Congress did not use force against those who perpetrated the pogrom." Javadekar
said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              596 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Rs5 lakh relief for kin of the deceased

BYLINE: Vaishali Balajiwale

LENGTH: 295  words


Chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and home minister RR Patil visited Dhule on
Tuesday, nine days after the riot paralysed life in the town.

After interacting with the people for a while, they addressed the police and
revenue officials, following which the CM announced a compensation of Rs5 lakh
to the kin of the deceased and Rs 3 lakh to those who have been left handicapped
due to injuries in the riot. He added that with respect to compensation for
damage to vehicles and property, an amount four times than that stated in the
relevant general resolution (GR) will be sanctioned.

The CM also stated that a retired judge will conduct a judicial inquiry into the
riot. "While the reasons for the riot and its fallout will be explored, focus
will be on concrete suggestions to avert such incidents in the city in future.
Those necessary shall also be implemented," he said.

Home minister RR Patil assured the people that cases on accused in the riot will
be filed based on evidence. Not all injured will be considered as accused. If
some one was out for work and was injured in the riot, it will be checked. If
there is no evidence of involvement, people will not be held guilty.

He added, "There could be many reasons for the riots, but what is seen is that
poverty and unemployment are some of the reasons as well. The government will
make efforts to create opportunities for employment and address the issue in
this perspective."

The chief minister and the home minister both stated that the police did a good
job of controlling the riot and appreciated their efforts in limiting it to the
affected area so that it did not spread all over the town.

They said that they had heard allegations regarding police firing and assured
the people that the inquiry would look into it.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              597 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Cup riot cases keep court busy

BYLINE: The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 194 words


A Surrey man, who was among the first to be charged with offences stemming from
last summer's Stanley Cup riot, Tuesday had a trial date set for next year.

A lawyer for Mobeen Mohammed, 33, entered a not-guilty plea on charges of
participating in a riot and break-and-enter in Vancouver Provincial Court.

Two days were set aside in early March for the trial.

A number of others were also in court to answer to charges following the June 15
Cup riot in Downtown Vancouver.

Pageant queen Sophie Labois-sonniere, 20, of Richmond had her case set over to
May 29. She is charged with break-and-enter and participating in a riot.

Surrey man James Ca Ha, 21, will be back June 12 to face charges of
participating in a riot and break-and-enter.

A lawyer for Timothy Lau, 21, of Comox was in court. Lau is charged with taking
part in a riot, two counts of break-and-enter, four counts of mischief over
$5000 and two counts of mischief. His case is on May 22.

Brydon Robert Turner, 19, of Delta had his participating in a riot and mischief
under $5,000 charges put over to June 12.

Chelsea Andrews, 18, of Surrey had charges of taking part in riot and
break-and-enter moved to May 24.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              598 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            November 6, 2009 Friday

Riot victims disrupt rail traffic

BYLINE: Amrita Chaudhry

LENGTH: 318  words

DATELINE: Giaspura


Train services were severely affected on Thursday morning after the 1984 Sikh
riot victims blocked rail traffic demanding justice. The protest began at 6.30
in the morning and ended later in the afternoon.

Slamming the Congress government at the centre, Shiromani Gurdawara Prabhandhak
Committee (SGPC) president Avtar Singh Makkar remarked that it was sad that even
after 25 years, the Congress government had failed to deliver justice to the
victims of 1984 Sikh riots."

Makkar was addressing a gathering of 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims, who under the
banner of Danga Peerat Welfare Association, had given a "Rail Roko" call to
demand justice to the riot victims.

Addressing the gathering, Makkar said, "It took the Indian government two days
to announce punishment to those who killed Indira Gandhi, but in case of the
riot victims, justice is nowhere in sight. Instead, the Congress has rewarded
those who designed and executed these riots."

Makkar warned, "The centre however should not forget that Sikhs are a martial
race and we know how to fight for our rights which we will do till our last
breadth."

Adding to this, Harnam Singh Dhuman, president, Sant Samaj, said, "We will not
wait any longer for justice but fight to get it. It is sad to see that the Sikh
Congress leaders instead of pressing their government to accord justice are
simply toeing their party high command. The Congress has not even offered any
sympathy to the riot victims till date."

Meanwhile, passengers of at least a dozen trains had to face the ire of the
protesters. These trains were delayed and the worst affected were the Sahtabdi
Express , Amarpali Express, Paschim Express, Akal Takht and Sachkhand Express.
The Amritsar-Delhi express train was delayed by over two and half hours and had
to be finally routed through Dhuri. Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi train was
cancelled and so was the Jhakhal-Dhurri-Jalandhar-Amritsar train.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              599 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday

Tibetan press to offer free advertising for businesses affected in riots

LENGTH: 238 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Tibetan Press To Offer Free Advertising for Businesses Affected in riots" -
Xinhua headline]

LHASA, March 30 (Xinhua) - The official Tibet Daily and its subsidiary newspaper
Tibet Business News have announced to offer free advertising for 848 businessmen
affected in the recent riots in Lhasa.

The two newspapers will provide free quarter-page and free half-page business
re-opening advertisements for three times to those brand stores which were
severely damaged in the riots, according to notices published on the newspapers
on Saturday.

The ordinary shops seriously damaged in the riots will get thrice free
one-eighth page and thrice free quarter-page advertisement to announce their
reopening.

For other shops damaged in the riots, the two newspapers will also offer pages
of free advertisement according to their extent of affection.

According to statistics from the Lhasa municipal commerce and industry bureau,
848 businessmen in industries of manufacturing, wholesales, catering,
accommodation, construction, entertainment, social security and service, were
affected in the riots and suffered losses of more than 200 million yuan (28.6
million US dollars).

The riots on March 14 killed 18 civilians and one police officer and injured 382
civilians and 241 police officers.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0204 gmt 30 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              600 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    Press TV

                           February 11, 2016 Thursday

52 killed in northeastern Mexico prison riot

LENGTH: 182  words


Relatives of inmates gather outside the Topo Chico prison in the northern
Mexican city of Monterrey on February 11, 2016. (AFP PHOTO)

At least 52 people have died following a riot in a northern Mexico prison in the
Nuevo Leon state, the state governor says.

"We are experiencing a tragedy," Jaime Rodriguez said following the pre-dawn
riot at the Topo Chico prison in the industrial city of Monterrey.

Rodriguez said the dispute involved a faction led by a member of the infamous
Zetas drug cartel.

Riot police have been deployed to the prison where smoke billows from a fire lit
at the facility, according to media.

Local media added that the riot started before dawn and some prisoners may have
escaped.

The riot is the latest in a series of deadly incidents in recent years to hit
the country's notorious prisons, which are used for dangerous convicts belonging
to different drug gangs and the Mexican mafia.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/198/701/66/145521431130.jpg

Relatives of inmates gather outside the Topo Chico prison in the northern
Mexican city of Monterrey on February 11, 2016. (AFP PHOTO)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire

JOURNAL-CODE: 701


                            Copyright 2016 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              601 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday

Apec 2007 Braced for riots Sydney police ready for protesters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 375  words


POLICE have warned a violent, full-scale riot is 'probable' when up to 20,000
anti-APEC protesters march on central Sydney on Saturday.

NSW's top riot squad officer, Chief Superintendent Stephen Cullen, told a Sydney
court he was braced for the worst violence of his career, adding he had never
held more serious concerns for public safety.

Protesters have vowed not to back down on their plan to walk to the edge of
police lines on Saturday, despite the police commissioner yesterday winning a
court order banning them from doing so.

''Police lines will come under attack and a full-scale riot is probable,'' Supt
Cullen, commander of the Public Order and Riot Squad, told the hearing in the
NSW Supreme Court.

''Based upon my research, experience, current intelligence and evidence from
internationally similar events -- more recently G20 in Melbourne -- I have
absolutely no doubt that minority groups will engage in a level of violence not
previously experienced in Sydney.''

Up to 20,000 people are expected to gather in Sydney's CBD to walk against war,
global warming, and a host of other concerns as 21 world leaders meet during the
APEC summit.

NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione received 68 applications for
APEC-related demonstrations, the most controversial being a bid from the Stop
Bush Coalition.

After negotiations reached a stalemate, the commissioner successfully sought to
have the coalition's proposed march route vetoed in court.

Protesters had already conceded their original plan to march through Martin
Place was not viable, due to police barriers to be erected along King St on

Saturday.

The Stop Bush Coalition then proposed ending the rally at the King St barriers,
but while Justice Michael Adams agreed freedom of speech was paramount in a
democratic society, he said ending the rally at that point would make it a
target.

''In my view, the attitude of the commissioner to this application is a
reasonable one and accordingly I grant the orders sought,'' he said.

Outside court, rally organiser Alex Bainbridge would not rule out going ahead
with a peaceful march to King St, accepting he and others could face arrest as a
consequence.

''The court order prohibits nothing. Our rally and demonstration will be going
ahead,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              602 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

Afghan Upper House Speaker accuses MPs of plotting Kabul riots

LENGTH: 323 words


Text of report by Afghan state radio on 5 June

Speaker of the upper house, Sebghatollah Mojadedi, has accused some members of
the lower house of involvement in the recent riots in Kabul. He has asserted
once again that the riots were pre-planned.

According to a Bakhtar Information Agency report, Mr Mojadedi made these
comments in an upper house session attended by representatives of the Ministry
of Defence and Interior and National Directorate of Security. This is the second
time Mr Mojadedi is describing the recent riots in Kabul as pre-planned. But
this time he accused some members of the lower house of involvement in the riots
. He said the riots were pre-planned and had been worked out over a month or two
ago. He said there was enough documentary evidence proving people's involvement
in the incident.

These comments come at a time when the representative of the Interior Ministry
described the recent demonstrations in Kabul as a spontaneous incident. But
comments by the representative of the Interior Ministry sparked opposition from
the house, which rejected his comments.

Speaker of the lower house, Mohammad Yunos Qanuni, has said the comments reflect
Mr Mojadedi's personal opinion. However, Deputy Speaker of the lower house has
rejected involvement of its members. She said MPs even made efforts to calm down
the demonstrators. She said, "I think it was an accident. I totally reject any
involvement of MPs in the incident. Instead MPs rather made efforts to calm down
the situation and end the demonstrations. You may have seen through the media
that they went and brought representatives of the demonstrators to parliament to
talk with them and listen to their demands."

The upper house had summoned representatives of the Ministry of Defence and
Interior and National Directorate of Security and they were asked to send the
minister and the head of the security.

Source: Radio Afghanistan, Kabul, in Pashto 1430 gmt 5 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              603 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

At least 40 die in Mexico prison riot;
The deadly prison riot in northern Mexico started early Sunday morning in a
high-security cell block.

BYLINE: Associated Press

LENGTH: 269 words


A prison riot in northern Mexico left at least 40 people dead early Sunday,
according to a security official.

Nuevo Leon state public security spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the riot
broke out at about 2 a.m. in a high-security section of a prison in the city of
Apodaca outside of the northern industrial city of Monterrey.

A group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took one of the guards
hostage, Domene said. The riot then spread to a second cell block, and at least
40 people died before authorities regained control of the prison a couple of
hours later.

Families of the prisoners gathered outside the prison Sunday morning, pushing at
the fences and shouting at police to demand word of the victims.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons as gangs and drug cartels
stage jail breaks and battle for control of penitentiaries, often with the
involvement of officials.

Some 31 prisoners died in January in a prison riot in the Gulf coast city of
Altamira in Tamaulipas state, which borders Texas. Another fight in a prison in
the Tamaulipas border city of Matamoros in October killed 20 inmates and injured
12.

In July, a riot at a prison in the border city of Juarez killed 17 inmates.
Mexican authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash.
Surveillance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed prisoners into
a room where the slain victims were reportedly holding a party.

Twenty-three people were killed in a prison riot in Durango city in 2010, and a
2009 riot in Gomez Palacio, another city in the northern Mexican state of
Durango, killed 19 people.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              604 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 29, 2016 Tuesday

1984 anti-Sikh riots vs 2002 Gujarat riots: 'Sorry Kanhaiya, can't agree';
A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar's controversial remarks claiming
there was a difference between the 1984 riots and the 2002 riots, his colleagues
in the Left have expressed their disagreement.

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 405  words


A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar's controversial remarks claiming
there was a difference between the 1984 riots and the 2002 riots, his colleagues
in the Left have expressed their disagreement.

A day after JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar stoked controversy claiming that
there was a difference between the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the 2002 Gujarat
riots, his colleagues in the larger Left movement -including JNUSU vice
president Shehla Rashid Shore - have expressed their disagreement.

"Why should a left leader try to defend the Congress
(http://indianexpress.com/tag/congress/) government's role in the anti-Sikh
riots, something that even Rahul Gandhi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/rahul-gandhi/) and his party cannot
defend?" AISA president Sucheta De, said.

"To say that 1984 riots were mob frenzy and not state sponsored would only
justify the 'big tree falls' theory regarding sikh massacre," she added.
(http://www.facebook.com/sucheta.de.9/posts/1065329546864387)

Shehla Rashid, also of AISA, chose to steer clear of
(http://www.facebook.com/ShoraSR/posts/1750162051882221) Kanhaiya's remarks
saying that while she wasn't present at the event where the remarks were made,
"both 1984 and 2002 were acts of state sponsored violence and we must not draw
contrasts between two human tragedies."

"The survivors of 1984 state sponsored communal pogrom deserve all our support
and we must refrain from making any statement that undermines their struggle for
justice. In 1984 also, the JNU campus not only opposed the violence, but even
sheltered some of the Sikhs who were running for cover. We have spoken out
against Gujarat as vocally as against Hashimpura and Singur-Nandigram. We cannot
prejudge the case and give a clean chit to the state, when there has been no
credible investigation into the whole affair," Rashid said, on her Facebook
page.

"We must not be apologetic about 1984 massacre, but must unequivocally condemn
it."

Kanhaiya, during a panel discussion on "Voices of Azaadi" at the
"Jashne-e-azaadi" festival, said
(http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/kanhaiya-kumar-jnusu-pr
esident-2002-gujrat-riots1984-sikh-riots/) "there's a difference between
Emergency and fascism. During Emergency, goons of only one party were engaged
into goondaism, in this (fascism) entire state machinery is resorting to
goondaism. There is a difference between riots of 2002 and 1984 Sikh riots.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              605 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Congress rues Rahul resurrecting 1984 riots, giving Modi an edge

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 442 words


NEW DELHI: Congress is concerned that Rahul Gandhi has inserted anti-Sikh riots
into the political discourse, shrinking its elbow room to attack Narendra Modi
on the issue of anti-Muslim carnage.

Rising protests from Sikh groups and the figuring of 1984 riots in news
bulletins has put Congress in the firing line of the 1984 riots that was till
now confined to individuals like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler. Even in 2009,
the drama over anti-Sikh riots was provoked by the limited issue of Congress
giving election tickets to Kumar and Tytler before retracting.

If the Sikh riots continue to dominate headlines, they could draw parity between
Congress and BJP among opinion-makers and a defensive "secular" party would be
hamstrung in raising the ante against Modi on the issue of riots.

The key worry is the 1984 issue may now figure in every public interaction Modi
makes and it would be difficult to duck the issue.

With each passing day that Congress is having to defend itself, there ruling
camp feels it is losing its aggressive edge against Modi. It may be an advantage
for the Hindutva strongman who is trying his best to soften his rough edges
dating back to anti-Muslim riots and appear a moderate.

This has implications for the post-election scenario given that BJP would be
needing allies who have "secular" roots. That NCP is already making conciliatory
noises in favour of the Gujarat chief minister is an eye-opener.

There is a sense of regret in Congress that Rahul could not tackle the question
on riots effectively. While conceding too much ground, without putting Modi on
the defensive on Gujarat riots, his ambivalent response prised open the 1984
issue for debate.

Instead, he could have simply referred to the apologies issued by Congress chief
Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 10 years ago. When cornered, he
could have apologized in line with senior Congress leaders and settled the issue
for good. Many in the party blame the poor background briefing to Rahul for the
fiasco.

Now, there is hope that Rahul would make up for the lapse in the coming TV
interviews that are lined up. While leaders are happy that the reluctant leader
has finally decided to communicate with the public and interact with the press,
they would want him to appear engaged. This when future interactions may not be
easy to navigate now that he has bared the chinks in his armour.

Amid the post-interview disappointment, a big plus for insiders is that he
managed to keep his cool and did not walk out like Modi did with a famous TV
anchor. It would have been disastrous PR in the present negative atmosphere.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              606 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Naroda verdict model for other riot cases

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Aug. 30 -- The special court verdict in the Naroda Patiya massacre case
in Gujarat in which a former BJP minister, Maya Kodnani, and 31 others were
convicted on Wednesday for murder, conspiracy, and provoking a riot, among other
charges, is a feather in the cap of the judiciary. It shows that the
apprehensions that courts in Gujarat would not deliver justice in cases relating
to the 2002 riots have been proved unfounded. The Special Investigation Team
that had been appointed by the Supreme Court also needs to be congratulated for
putting together solid evidence which led to the convictions. That a Bajrang Dal
leader, Babubhai Patel was also convicted in what was the worst massacre of the
riots, makes it difficult for the Sangh Parivar to wash its hands off the riots
which took place in the immediate aftermath of the Godhra train burning in which
scores of Hindus returning from Ayodhya were killed.

While the detractors of Narendra Modi will no doubt try to project the verdict
as an embarrassment to him, its impact on the impending Assembly elections in
Gujarat is a matter of speculation. Yet, there is no cause for the Congress to
gloat over the convictions when its own hands are soiled by the anti-Sikh riots
that claimed nearly 3,000 lives in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination in 1984. The verdict, however, must be lauded as it is one of
those rare cases in which police investigations into communal riots have
successfully led to exposure and conviction politicians and religious leaders
occupying high offices.

The Gujarat investigation should indeed be a model for the anti-Sikh riot cases
of 1984, besides such cases in Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra where no
political or religious leader has been convicted for riots and for complicity in
the killing of innocent people. It is not as though such people would not have
been involved. Those who committed such heinous acts of murder, loot and rape
must be brought to book regardless of the party or religious group they belong
to. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              607 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      August 10, 2012 Friday 12:42 AM GMT

Clegg invites riot-hit store boss

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 300 words


The chairman of the burned-down, family-run Croydon furniture store that became
a symbol of last summer's riots has been invited to the Olympics Games closing
ceremony by Nick Clegg.

The Deputy Prime Minister said Maurice Reeves, 81, was among a dozen
"inspirational" people he had met over the past year who deserved a chance to be
in the stadium for the culmination of London 2012.

Images of the 140-year-old House of Reeves engulfed by a massive blaze just over
a year ago were among the most replayed in coverage of the riots in London and
other English cities.

Members of the family have thrown themselves into riot-related charity work -
covering the front of their remaining building with 4,000 photos of young people
holding positive messages.

Alongside Mr Reeves will be another victim of the riots, Basak Kartal, who had
to barricade herself inside her Turkish cafe and bookshop as the riots in
Tottenham raged around her.

Mr Clegg was impressed when he met her in the aftermath of the unrest, with the
community event she organised to bring together police, shop keepers, residents
and politicians.

Others receiving invitations include representatives of a Leeds urban
regeneration project, Cardiff City FC's schools scheme, a Rotherham training
college, a London decorating business and two of its apprentices and a Smethwick
train depot manager.

"London 2012 has been a truly historic Olympics for Team GB and Britain as a
whole," Mr Clegg said.

"Our unprecedented medal haul adds a new buzz to the excitement and anticipation
around Sunday's closing ceremony.

"It is a privilege to be able to celebrate the incredible achievements of our
sporting heroes with just a few of the inspirational people I have met over the
past year, who have made such a significant contribution to their communities."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              608 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 21, 2016 Saturday

Three years on, 2.5k riot-displaced Shamli families await ration cards, power
connections

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: MEERUT

LENGTH: 400 words


MEERUT: In Shamli district, over 2,500 families who were displaced after the
2013 Muzaffarnagar riots cannot avail the benefits of the National Food Security
Act (NFSA) because they do not have ration cards yet. These families, which
settled in various parts of Shamli after they were forced to leave their homes
in neighbouring Muzaffarnagar, do not have power or water connections either.

"After the riots, over 50,000 people were displaced. Around 6,000 families were
uprooted from their homes and were forced to shift base. Of these, close to
2,800 families came and settled in the neighboring Shamli district. Some of
these families were from Shamli district itself. It's been almost three years
since the riots and most of these families don't even have ration cards yet.
Many don't even have water or power connections. They live in deplorable
conditions and they resort to manual labor to make ends meet," said Akram
Akhtar, project manager at Afkar India Foundation, an NGO that works for the
rehabilitation of riot victims.

He added, "Currently, there are around 2,800 families settled in 35 colonies
across Shamli district. They are in various blocks such as Shamli, Kairana and
Kandhla. Of these families, only 300 have been given ration cards. The others
cannot avail the benefits of subsidised food even though they belong to very
poor families. The NFSA has been applicable in Shamli since March but riot
-affected families are not eligible."

Madan Yadav, district supplies officer (DSO), said, "After the riots, nine
villages were placed on the priority list. These were villages that had suffered
the worst violence during the riots. Six of these villages are in Muzaffarnagar
district and three in Shamli. Those who used to live in these villages and were
displaced have been given ration cards. As far as people from other villages are
concerned, they are not living in concentrated pockets. They are scattered
across the district. They can apply via the normal process and if they face
problems then they can approach the district administration or the supplies
inspector."

Akhtar, however, said, "Almost all these families have applied for ration cards
but there have been no inspections. Many have gone to their local supplies
inspectors but nothing has happened on this front. These are people from the
labour class and they deserve subsidised food."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              609 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday
                                 Third Edition

Cronulla candidate's riot movie;
State politics

BYLINE: Â»HEATH ASTON STATE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 390 words


A candidate in the local government elections on September 8 is running on a
platform that Cronulla should make a film about the infamous race riot of 2005,
and how its origins were in "Lebanese hooligans".

Richard Black, a lawyer, who is running as an independent for Sutherland Shire
Council, said he wanted the Cronulla community to depict the riot in film before
an independent filmmaker got the chance to heap more shame on the area.

He has written half a screenplay, with the working title Cronulla's Troubles,
and believes the council should help residents produce the film. He said the
controversial television shows The Shire and Dumb, Drunk and Racist will be a
precursor to renewed interest in Cronulla, which, he said, has had "$1 billion
worth of bad publicity" since 2005.

"The Victorian police commissioner recently referred to 'Cronulla-style riots'.
Cronulla is now a byword for hooliganism," Mr Black said. He said Cronulla's
Troubles would be a fair and objective look at the riots, including how the
community had copped "dysfunctional hooligans descending on the area for
decades".

Mr Black traces the origins of the 2005 riot to an incident in Menai in the
early 2000s when Lebanese youths were arrested after a fracas, and exonerated by
a magistrate before returning to the area, emboldened by the experience.

Mr Black is one of 4627 candidates in NSW seeking election.

Among them are Jane Vincent - a sister of the federal Opposition Leader, Tony
Abbott - who is standing for Mosman Council as an independent. Another sister,
Christine Foster, is contesting the City of Sydney election for the Liberal
Party.

The lord mayor, Clover Moore, who is standing down as a state MP to continue her
long reign at Town Hall, is a short-priced favourite to retain the mayoral
chains.

The Rabbitohs legend Mario Fenech is standing in Randwick, while the former
state premier Kristina Keneally's husband Ben is expected to succeed Rob Hoenig
as mayor of Botany, for Labor. In Woollahra, the Women's Weekly queen, Deborah
Thomas, is running as an endorsed Liberal candidate, as is the present deputy
mayor, Toni Zeltzer.

The poll has reignited debate among Liberals as to whether the party should be
involved in local politics, where the stakes are low but the potential for
embarrassment is high.

Heath Aston's state column

- Extra, Page 81

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ugly ... Sutherland candidate Richard Black, inset, says
Cronulla has had "$1 billion worth of bad publicity" since the riot. Main photo:
Andrew Meares

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             April 20, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Riot suspect altered looks

BYLINE: Jeff Bell, Times Colonist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 310 words


A man wanted in connection with last year's Stanley Cup playoffs riot in
downtown Vancouver has been arrested in Esquimalt, where police found him
despite his efforts to change his appearance.

Victoria police, acting on information supplied by the Vancouver-based
Integrated Riot Investigation Team, found the 26-year-old man early Thursday
morning staying on a boat in West Bay Marina. He was among those featured on a
Riot Roundup poster with photos of 100 faces, designed to draw attention to riot
suspects.

Victoria police Const. Mike Russell said the man changed his appearance to evade
authorities, including cutting and dying his hair.

He is alleged to have damaged two police cars and a number of parked vehicles
during the mayhem that followed the Vancouver Canucks' final round playoff loss
to the Boston Bruins in 2011. He is also believed to have damaged metal fencing
by jumping on fence panels.

The suspect was held at Victoria police headquarters while the riot team
investigated. He has since been released pending the approval of charges.

Russell said several charges are possible, including participating in a riot,
four counts of mischief over $5,000 - including damaging the two police cars -
and one count of mischief under $5,000.

Insp. Les Yeo, commander of the riot team, said the Victoria Police Department
has played an active role in tracking down suspects. That included a March 8
blitz that saw reserve constables and volunteers hanging posters around
Victoria.

"The support we have had from all surrounding communities has been tremendous,"
Yeo said in a statement.

"It sends a clear message to rioters outside Vancouver that police departments
from across the region support our efforts to hold rioters accountable for their
actions on June 15."

So far, 11 suspected rioters from Vancouver Island have been identified.

jwbell@timescolonist.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              611 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Coventry actress relives Bradford riots in TV drama

BYLINE: By Marion McMullen TV WRITER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 215 words


COVENTRY actress Manjinder Virk didn't panic when she found herself in the
middle of a full-scale riot ... it was all being staged for television.

The former Ernesford Grange Community College student can be seen on Channel 4
next Thursday, in gritty TV drama Bradford Riots.

She plays Shazia in Channel4's hard-hitting fictionalized account of the
Bradford riots of 2001 - the worst rioting in mainland Britain in 20 years.

The riots erupted after weeks of tension and more than 100Asian youths were
later dealt with for their involvement in the disturbances. The majority handed
themselves into the police, pleaded guilty and had no relevant previous
convictions.

The 95-minute TV special was written by Neil Biswas and the cast includes Victor
Banerjee, from A Passage to India.

The drama follows the riots through the eyes of one Muslim family.

Manjinder began acting at the Belgrade Youth Theatre in Coventry and went on to
become artistic director of Pangram Dance Theatre.

She has appeared in the Millennium Mysteries in the ruins of Coventry Cathedral,
toured the country in stage comedy Unsuitable Girls and appeared on ITV's The
Bill.

Her role in Bradford Riots proved something of a family affair. She said: "My
mother, Jasvir, and brother Hardish also worked as background artists on it."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRITTY ROLE... Coventry actress Manjinder Virk (left) and (above) a
scene from the Channel 4 drama Bradford Riots, which will be shown next
Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              612 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

UP temperature up after Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission submits report on
Muzaffarnagar riots

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 350 words


LUCKNOW: Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that the
Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP. It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating the
atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly, there was no official word on the report. Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots.
"The BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less
than a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing
to stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              613 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Open door: The readers' editor on...: reporting the unheard voices from the
riots

BYLINE: Chris Elliott

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 693 words


The phrase "journalism is the first rough draft of history" is familiar to those
in newspapers. But the next part of the sentence used by Phil Graham, the
publisher of the Washington Post, in a speech 50 years ago, is less often heard.
It is ". . . that will never really be completed about a world we can never
really understand".

The Guardian, in partnership with the London School of Economics, has attempted
to address those last issues in a unique project, Reading the Riots, the results
of which were published over three days last week. In last summer's English
riots - irritated readers were quite rightly quick to point out our misplaced
use of Britain or UK in headlines - in the wake of the shooting of Mark Duggan
by a Metropolitan police officer, an extraordinary wave of violence washed
through many cities.

Rioters used Twitter and BlackBerry messaging to organise and communicate, while
journalists used the social media to track and report what was happening.

Paul Lewis and Matthew Taylor covered the riots extensively for the Guardian.
Lewis used Twitter as a crowd-sourcing and reporting tool over four nights,
gathering 35,000 followers.

In the days after the riots last August, the pair felt it was important to go
one step further, to dig deeper to understand why the riots had happened.

The Guardian approached the LSE, specifically Professor Tim Newburn, a
criminologist, and the project was funded by the Open Society and Joseph
Rowntree foundations. The project began in September, three weeks after the
riots, and the first results were published on 5 December 2011. Lewis said: "The
aim was to investigate the causes and consequences of the riots, because the
coalition government made very clear there would be no full inquiry."

The idea was modelled on a similar project in the US in 1967 following the
Detroit riots, when the Detroit Free Press teamed up with social researchers
from the University of Michigan to investigate the causes of the riots.

As in Detroit, the Guardian and LSE recruited and trained 30 researchers with
close links to the riot-affected communities, then interviewed 270 rioters, 130
police officers, members of the Crown Prosecution Service and others - 600 in
all. In total, 100 researchers, academics and analysts were involved over the
life of the project, sifting the results. They gathered 2m words directly from
individuals who had been involved, and analysed 2.6m tweets. Only the judiciary
refused a formal request to take part. Each interview was taped, transcribed and
entered into a database created by Harold Frayman, a systems editor.

"It was very tricky to find the rioters," said Lewis. The project tracked 1,000
court appearances by those charged in connection with the riots. Each of those
households received a letter seeking co-operation from rioters, and people were
also interviewed in prison with the permission of the Ministry of Justice.

While phase one concentrated on the rioters, phase two of the project told the
stories of the police, victims, vigilantes and courts. Keir Starmer, the
director of public prosecutions, was among those interviewed. Lewis said: "(The
police) took some persuading but ultimately realised there was learning to be
had, that there was no harm in taking part in something that was underpinned by
real academic rigour."

There were only three formal complaints to the readers' editor. Two were about
the large-scale coverage and another said the Guardian was wrong to suggest that
interviews with 130 officers represented "the views of thousands" of officers.
Given the scale, scope and sensitivity of the project, that does not seem an
exceptionally high number. Taylor said: "It may not be the definitive piece of
research but these are voices that have never been heard."

I asked Lewis and Taylor what they thought had been the biggest mistake.

"We didn't get emergency workers," said Lewis. "Their voices are seldom heard."
It also taught the journalists a different interviewing technique, he said: "It
is very different. Academics take a non-leading approach, where the interview is
led by the interviewee. I've found myself interviewing differently since."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              614 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Salazar urges rebuke for Limbaugh riot talk

BYLINE: Howard Pankratz The Denver Post

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-03

LENGTH: 284 words


U.S. Sen. Ken Salazar asked Friday that the owner of KOA radio "reprimand" Rush
Limbaugh for what Salazar calls Limbaugh's "clear exhortation" for riots during
August's Democratic National Convention in Denver.

Limbaugh said earlier this week that he is not calling for a riot in Denver but
only "dreams" of it, to the tune of "White Christmas."

"Now, I'm not inspiring or inciting riots. I'm dreaming. I'm dreaming of riots
in Denver," he said, mimicking the holiday tune.

But Salazar, in a letter sent Friday to Clear Channel Radio, owner of KOA,
characterized Limbaugh's comments as "incendiary."

"As I read Mr. Limbaugh's comments about riots at the Democratic National
Convention in Denver, they appear to me to be a clear exhortation that those
riots are exactly what he wants to happen," said Salazar. "For that kind of
incendiary comment, I ask Clear Channel to reprimand Mr. Limbaugh."

Kris Olinger, director of AM programming for Clear Channel Denver, said Limbaugh
is syndicated by Premiere Radio Network, the syndication arm of Clear Channel.
"We passed the letter along to Premiere," said Olinger.

Olinger said she was not surprised to receive a letter from a U.S. senator over
Limbaugh's comments. "We certainly expected strong reaction from the
leadership," Olinger said.

She added that she didn't believe Salazar has heard or read the full transcript
of Limbaugh's comments. She said the conservative talk-show host talked about it
again Friday on his show.

Limbaugh reiterated that he is not calling for riots, she said. Rather, he said
that if the extreme left of the Democratic Party riots in Denver during the
convention, it would be bad for the Democrats and good for Republicans, Olinger
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              615 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Riot squad gets Bulldogs season ticket

BYLINE: Justin Norrie Police Reporter

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words


THE ranks of NSW riot police will be doubled to 100 and dozens of riot officers
could be deployed at Canterbury Bulldogs games to target brawling fans, under a
plan being canvassed by the NSW Police Commissioner.

Ken Moroney has told the Herald that 750 police graduates, to be introduced to
front lines next year, will also allow him to boost forensic police numbers from
650 to 820 by next year.

"Apart from the riot squad, the area that is expanding exponentially in police
work and has more demand than any other is forensics," Mr Moroney said. "I'd
like to keep increasing it by 5 to 10 per cent each year."

Mr Moroney revealed more plans to boost numbers at the state's crime command,
which runs specialist units such as the fraud squad, from 800 to 1000 in three
years to stem a rise in white-collar and cyber crime.

But he said the extra 750 police would be partly accounted for by the "200-odd
officers" - or 1.4 per cent of the state's 14,650-strong police force - on
long-term sick leave.

The most pressing concern was the expansion of the riot squad and the
possibility of using it at Bulldogs games after violence on Friday night, he
said.

"I want to use that 750 increase to add at least another 50 officers to the riot
squad - that's a minimum - and hopefully more," Mr Moroney said. "Myself and
[the Police Minister] Carl Scully will meet with the Bulldogs and the NRL on
Wednesday and we'll talk about what the club can do ... and about the option of
riot police who have special techniques for that sort of violent crowd
behaviour."

Witnesses described a ferocious attack by up to eight young men wearing Bulldogs
jerseys on three older Wests Tigers fans outside Telstra Stadium on Friday night
after a game. Police made only one arrest during the game, but spectators
recalled seeing two brawls in the stands, one of which they said involved up to
50 people.

Yesterday police issued court notices to four people on charges of affray after
reviewing television footage of one brawl.

Mr Moroney said the parties to Wednesday's crisis meeting would also consider
such measures as segregating Bulldogs fans and banning for life any found guilty
of violence.

He was supported by the Premier, Morris Iemma, who described the behaviour of
some Bulldogs fans as "shameful".

Violence has marred many Bulldogs games in recent years. In 2004 the club was
given a suspended punishment of four points after a brawl between its fans and
Roosters supporters.

In a statement issued yesterday the Bulldogs chief executive, Malcolm Noad, said
it would be unfair to characterise the club by the actions of "a small bunch of
idiots" but warned his fans that "we face the very real possibility of a loss of
points and a heavy fine if further crowd problems occur".

But the Opposition's spokesman for police, Mike Gallacher, said the Government's
announcement was a stunt: "This isn't 750 new police; it's merely an additional
150 after factoring in the 600 officers Labor slashed and did not replace."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              616 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

In first visit after riots, Mulayam defends UP govt, rakes up Gujarat

BYLINE: Aniruddha Ghosal

LENGTH: 405  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


On his first visit to Muzaffarnagar since the communal riots that hit the
district last year, Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav on Sunday sought
to defend his government, emphasising that Rs 115 crore had been given as
compensation to the riot victims.

He also took the opportunity to attack the BJP's prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi, claiming that he had not given any compensation to those affected
in the 2002 riots and failed to prevent the "dishonoring of our sisters".

Referring to the Gujarat riots, he said, "Jab aapne katl-i-aam kiya tha
Mussalmaano ka, mein waha gaya tha, unki haalat bahut kharab thi ...(When you
killed Muslims, their condition was horrible)."

He said when he went to Gujarat after the riots, a woman came to him to show him
her injuries. "She took all her clothes off. I looked away. But she said she
could only show her wounds to me and I must look...I can't even tell you where
all the wounds were," he said. "Where was Modi then, and his 56-inch chest...
jisne humari bahu betiyon ko nanga kiya...apamanit kiya (the one who stripped
our daughters-in-law and daughters naked...humiliated them)".

However, while the city buzzed with SP supporters on bikes, not many attended
the rally. Party leaders cited the heat and traffic as reasons for the low
attendance, but the party's waning strength, especially among the Muslims, was
evident, even as the SP chief sought to woo them. "Muslims make the best
clothes, they make Banarasi saris, they make the best jewellery, and yet the BJP
abuses them," he said. "We have always protected you. Whenever there has been
strife, it's the SP which has protected you...don't let us down, don't let us be
humiliated here (Muzaffarnagar)," he said.

Making his prime ministerial ambitions clear, he said, "After the elections, it
will be a third front that will form the government and the biggest party in the
third front is the Samajwadi Party. And the neta (leader) to be chosen from
within the party will obviously be the one with the most seats in the third
front," he said.

Besides Muslims, the SP chief also sought to woo two specific electorates in
Muzaffarnagar - valmikis and farmers. For farmers, he promised "cheap and good
seeds, good fertilisers, good quality irrigation" and other facilities. While
reaching out to valmikis, he said, "You're doing the best work. You clean the
cities and prevent diseases. We'll look after you," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              617 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Call for more protests;
RIOT

SECTION: NEWS; In Brief Local; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 111 words


PROTESTERS are gearing up for further riots outside Bob Jane T-Mart stores this
weekend after the cancellation of the Easternats drag racing meet. Facebook
pages have been set up and messages posted on car websites encouraging
protesters to "have another riot" as per the upheaval in Oakleigh last month,
the Melbourne Magistrates Court was told.

Police yesterday opposed bail for teenagers Aziz Elbayeh and Omar Amr â[#x20ac]"
accused of joining the Oakleigh riot on March 19. The two 19-year-olds, from
Springvale and Springvale South, have been charged with inciting a riot,
rioting, affray, burglary, theft and criminal damage. The bail hearing was
adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              618 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Warning bells before detainee riots;
Island situation precarious: inquiry

BYLINE: KIRSTY NEEDHAM IMMIGRATION CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words


THE Immigration Department was warned severe overcrowding at the detention
centre on Christmas Island would cause a serious incident five months before
riots broke out there. That is the finding of an independent inquiry into the
Christmas Island and Villawood riots, by former public servants Allan Hawke and
Helen Williams. Released yesterday, the report said the failure of the
department to brief Immigration Minister Chris Bowen on the warning until March
2011 was "highly regrettable". The report has described conditions on Christmas
Island before the riots as "severely compromised" - with failing sewerage
systems, a "precarious" supply of water and access to toilets and education
under stress.

Detainee numbers had leapt to 2530 on the island. Knowledge Consulting warned in
October 2010 that safety was compromised, accommodation was unsuitable and
detainees had no meaningful activities. A freeze on processing Sri Lankan and
Afghan asylum claims a year earlier caused a backlog and "significant impact on
the detention network". The inquiry found that adding to this explosive mix was
an influx of middle-class Iranian asylum seekers "who had higher expectations of
service and lower tolerance for any perceived slowness in processing or
inconsistency in decision-making or failure to achieve a positive result". Riots
on Christmas Island, sparked on March 11, caused $2.5 million in damages, while
riots at Villawood in Sydney a month later cost $6 million. Serco, the private
company that runs the detention network, was warned of the planned mass escape
and riot on Christmas Island four days earlier, but a teleconference with the
Immigration Department in Canberra dismissed an informant's warning. The report
blamed both riots in part on the detention network's inability to manage a core
group of angry asylum seekers who had been rejected. It said 80 of the 100
detainees identified as taking part in the Christmas Island riot had received
initial rejections and were waiting for a review. Thirteen of the 19 charged had
been rejected as refugees at the first interview. Of the nine detainees charged
over the Villawood riot, all had received a negative primary decision. The
report called for the contract with Serco to be revised to improve security and
co-ordination with police. Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said: "This is not
necessarily about the time taken for processing, not about the conditions in
detention, but about the number of people in immigration detention who had been
rejected." Opposition immigration spokesman Scott Morrison said: "Overcrowding
was the key contributing factor, compounded by a failure to respond to the
mounting pressures in the network and heed the numerous warnings of the trouble
that was brewing." He said the government's recent shift to offer bridging visas
meant the rioters had now got what they wanted.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              619 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Riots have given rise to political opportunism on all sides

BYLINE: DavidHiggerson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 436 words


THE riots which engulfed parts of England have ensured that, for a second year
running, Westminster has been unable to fall into the long summer slumber it's
so used to.

Last year, the summer standstill was cancelled by the coalition government,
determined to make an impact within 100 days.

This summer, however, has been less about the Tories and Lib-Dems showing they
are in control and more about the ruling parties - along with Labour - trying to
demonstrate who has the best handle on post-riot Britain.

Ed Miliband is very critical of the Government's "policy a day" blizzard which,
he argues, is long on rhetoric and short on substance. He's right, of course,
but as any politician in government will tell you, at times of crisis it isn't
so much what you do, as what you're seen to be doing which matters.

Miliband's response to the riots has been more considered - but can still be
summed up as "Let's have an inquiry! Let's all think before we take action!" The
translation here is "We don't know what to do."

On all sides, there has been an abundance of using the riots to re-ignite
debates on hobby horse issues. Harriet Harman, increasingly the Labour spokesman
of choice for lost causes, insists the riots were, in part, due to government
cuts. Opportunism gone mad? Probably. But the worst seen so far has been the
slating home secretary Theresa May gave members of police authorities - the
bodies which police chiefs report to in each area - in the wake of the riots.
May is keen to scrap the police authorities, saying they aren't directly
elected.

May has asked where the police authorities were in the aftermath of the riots.
"Why weren't they reassuring people?" she said. The answer, of course, is that
they aren't there to do that. Police authorities hold police forces to account,
they don't do the policing for them.

May claims that no-one elects police authority members. True, but most members
are councillors from councils within a police force's area, so are indirectly
elected. In that sense they are no different to May herself. Her constituents
didn't vote for her to be home secretary, they voted for her to be their MP.

May's attempt to annex the riots to push her own agenda on replacing police
authorities with directly-elected police commissioners is very cynical, and this
is why the country can't afford to have an opposition which wants to stop and
have a think about how to respond to the riots.

In the wake of the riots, the last thing police forces need is another
re-arranging of the deckchairs in the way they are run - and that's what Labour
should be saying now.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              620 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fans blamed for riot; Most people charged have no criminal past

BYLINE: Sam Cooper, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 442  words


It was the kid next door, not hardened anarchists, who trashed Vancouver streets
during last week's Stanley Cup riot, officials now say.

After Wednesday's riot, Mayor Gregor Robertson, Chief Const. Jim Chu and B.C.
Premier Christy Clark all claimed a small group of criminals bent on destruction
were responsible.

And according to a new Angus Reid poll, three-quarters of people living in B.C.
and Metro Vancouver believe that theory. But a more innocent-looking face of
riot mayhem is emerging in the hard facts of formal charges.

"We are learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have
now been charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not
have criminal records," Chu said Monday.

Police say 117 people have been arrested for a variety of offences, and many
charges are pending. But of eight formal charges announced Monday, six
unidentified people had no criminal records, and most were teens.

A number of people have come forward to apologize for their part in the
destruction and thefts.

After being outed in a video online, University of B.C. student Camille Cacnio
admitted to looting during the riot and confessed to police.

"At the time of the riot, everything just seemed so right," Cacnio wrote online.
"It was simply to fulfil the adrenalin rush I was looking and hoping for . . .
an adrenalin rush that I previously got from post-winning games: hugging
randoms, dancing on the streets, honking car horns non-stop and high-fiving just
about everybody."

Simon Fraser University psychologist Stephen Wright said Cacnio's explanation
rings true, and after examining video evidence, he believes there are several
groups mixed up in the riot.

The first, a very small group of anar-chists prepared to incite a riot. The
second, a growing group of "fighting" male Canucks fans in the Lower Mainland
similar to U.K. football hooligans and a group of mobile-phone filmers and
social-media users who cheered on participants.

But the "most interesting" segment of riot participants, according to Wright, is
a large group who were guilty of matching the dominant crowd behaviour.

"I think the kids that were jumping on police cars [following the Canucks' loss]
would have been high-fiving police if that's what everyone else was doing," said
Wright.

Officials -who failed to publicly outline an alternative crowd-control plan and
be realistic about a growing core of hooligan fans -need to take some
responsibility as well, Wright said.

"We had no alternative plan for a loss," Wright said. "If I was the mayor, I
would have a good plan for a celebration of a loss, as bizarre as that sounds."

scooper@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reuters; A man in a Canucks jersey confronts Vancouver police during
last Wednesday's Stanley Cup riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              621 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            October 18, 2016 Tuesday

Lockdown threat City police begin anti-riot training

BYLINE: FAZAL SHER

SECTION: Vol. 52 No. 287

LENGTH: 292  words


Failure of the Islamabad police in controlling violent protests in the past
prompted its high-ups to provide anti-riot training to the police personnel in a
bid to deal with the much-hyped lockdown of the city by Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf
(PTI) on November 2 effectively.

Police sources said the city police have begun anti-riot training at police
training school and more than 1000 police personnel of different ranks equipped
with anti riot gears including anti-riot shields, helmets, batons and non lethal
weapons are participating in trainings on daily basis. They said the major
objective of training policemen is to stop protesters as well as to protect
themselves. The training will continue for a next few days, they added. They
said that following the announcement of PTI chief Imran Khan at Raiwind March
that his party would shutdown Islamabad after Muharram, the Islamabad Capital
Territory (ICT) administration held deliberations to chalk out a strategy to
tackle with PTI protesters. The anti riot training of police is the part of plan
for tackling with the PTI workers on November 2, they added. In the past, the
administration had sealed capital city by placing shipping containers before the
PTI and PAT protests.

As part of the security measures, the administration had earlier sealed 70 entry
points of which 36 are located in Rawalpindi, nine in Attock, five in Jhelum and
four in Chakwal in a bid to stop the marchers' entry into Islamabad but they
crossed all these barricades.

The district administration had also deputed as many as 5,000 personnel of the
Punjab police, 1,000 from the AJK police and 3,000 personnel of Frontier
Constabulary (FC) in the capital city when PTI and PAT marchers staged sit-ins
in Islamabad back in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              622 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

IN CAMPAIGN NEWS;
TRUMP WON'T FACE INCITEMENT CHARGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C.


Cumberland County sheriff's investigators considered charging Republican
presidential candidate Donald Trump with inciting a riot at his Fayetteville
rally, but they decided late Monday that Trump's comments didn't constitute a
crime.

Ronnie Mitchell, an attorney for the department, said in a news release Monday
afternoon that investigators were looking into an incident last week in which a
protester was punched in the face while being escorted out of the Trump event.

John Franklin McGraw,

78, of Linden, has been charged with assault and communicating threats.

The first statement said the office was looking into "the potential of whether
there was conduct on the part of Mr. Trump or the Trump campaign which rose to
the level of inciting a riot, and including the actions or inactions of our
deputies."

But Monday evening, a sheriff's department spokesman said that after reviewing
the incident, "the evidence does not meet the requisites of the law" regarding
riots.

North Carolina riot law says that "any person who willfully incites or urges
another to engage in a riot, so that as a result of such inciting or urging a
riot occurs or a clear and present danger of a riot is created, is guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor."

During the Fayetteville event, Trump repeatedly paused his speech during
interruptions from protesters and called on security officers to "get 'em out."

"In the good old days, this doesn't happen because they used to treat them very,
very rough," Trump said during one interruption.

In other news

The Breitbart News reporter who accused Donald Trump's campaign manager of
roughing her up last week at a Trump press conference has resigned from the
conservative Web site, saying she can't work for an organization that doesn't
support her, and three other news employees followed her out the door. After
initially publishing Fields' account, Breitbart posted a story doubting its own
reporter, saying the "likeliest explanation" is that Fields was grabbed by a
security officer. Trump's campaign denies the allegation.

- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              623 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday

Police storm Roumieh block to quell riot

LENGTH: 402 words


Anti-riot police stormed a block in Lebanon's largest prison Friday evening in a
bid to end a riot by Islamist inmates who took three guards hostage to protest
the prison's strict regulations, a security source told The Daily Star.

BEIRUT: Anti-riot police stormed a block in Lebanon's largest prison Friday
evening in a bid to end a riot by Islamist inmates who took three guards hostage
to protest the prison's strict regulations, a security source told The Daily
Star.

After surrounding all entrances to Block D of Roumieh prison and issuing a
warning to the prisoners, police units stormed the prison once negotiations hit
a dead end. The operation continued till late Friday.

The riots began during the evening meal, after which inmates are usually
confined to their cells for the night.

A number of prisoners in the newly rehabilitated Block D set their mattresses on
fire, and a blaze spread throughout the second floor, prompting Civil Defense
teams to intervene.

The inmates then escalated their riot by blocking all entrances and taking three
guards hostage, the source said.

The riots come in response to the stricter regulations that the prison
authorities have adopted to prevent the smuggling of drugs and weapons to
inmates.

Interior Minister Nouhad Machnouk posted on his Twitter account that "the
situation is under control and Roumieh prison will not return to its past chaos,
whatever the price."

The security source said the prisoners responsible for the riots were mostly
Islamists who had been incarcerated in Roumieh's notorious Block B building,
which was emptied and shut down after a large-scale police operation in January.

Inmates had enjoyed relative autonomy in Block B and prevented security forces
from entering.

After the clearing operation took place, television footage showed that
prisoners had no cell doors and operated a barber shop and a coffee shop in
Block B.

Footage also showed inmates on Block B had a large amount of electronic
equipment, including TV sets and mobile phones.

Some of the prisoners are members of Islamist fundamentalist groups and had also
been imposing Shariah law inside Block B, reports said.

Roumieh prison has been the scene of repetitive riots in past years, with
inmates protesting crowded cells and slow trials.

The largest riot occurred in April 2011, when inmates set their beds on fire and
broke down cell doors, in protest over subpar living conditions.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              624 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           January 11, 2014 Saturday
                                Lucknow Edition

West UP riots not as serious as made out to be: SP min

BYLINE: Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui TNN

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 306 words


Lucknow: Minister for mines and Minerals and face of the Most Backward Castes
(MBCs) in Samajwadi Party,Gayatri Prasad Prajapati on Friday said the
Muzaffarnagar riot issues were not as serious or big as was being made out by
the media.The minister's comment came during an interaction with the media in
Jalaun on Friday.At least 60 persons were killed and 50,000 others displaced in
communal riots that took place in Muzaffarnagar in September 2013.Another 35
infants have died in relief camps for the displaced riots victims.The minister's
statement comes as another handle for the opposition parties to corner the
Akhilesh government over poor handling of riot victims at relief camps in
Muzaffarnagar.The SP government in UP has been in the eye of a storm for
neglecting riot victims and focusing on annual celebrations held at his native
village Saifai in Etawah.Allegations are that the government had spent crores of
rupees to host the Saifai Mahotsava at the cost of neglecting riot
victims.Prajapati's statement has added weight to speculations over a sudden
shift in SP's strategy before the 2014 general elections.The party was said to
be unsure of the Muslim support following the furore over poor handling of riots
and its victims in relief camps in Muzaffarnagar.Now,Prajapati's statement gives
fresh ammo to political opposition in the state.Other indications that suggest a
possible shift in strategy of the SP is a hastily drafted multi-crore-rupee
urbanisation plan for Jhansi that the Akhilesh Yadav government has prepared and
cleared within the last 10 days.Jhansi is the heart of Bundelkhand which in turn
is dominated by the MBCs and OBCs.The SP is slated to hold its first pre-Lok
Sabha election rally in Jhansi on January 11,in which the chief minister is
expected to gift people of Jhansi the urbanisation plan.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

Orono runs past Tigers 36-19

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: ORONO


- The No. 4 Orono High Red Riots used a punishing ground attack to beat the No.
5 Dexter Tigers in an LTC football quarterfinal, 36-19 Friday night.


The Riots piled up 470 yards rushing with Cameron Mowrer carrying 16 times for
212 yards and a touchdown and PAT. He also picked off a Trevor Fogarty pass in
the second quarter for 55-yard touchdown. Twin brother Christan rushed 10 times
for 160 yards and two touchdowns.


Orono got on the board first when Christan Mowrer ran 43 yards for a 6-0 lead.


Dexter answered after a Red Riot fumble and took over at the 3-yard line where
QB Trevor Fogarty punched the ball in and after a Dustin Sirabella kick, the
Tigers led 7-6.


Christian Mowrer took the ball 41 yards to give the Riots a 12-7 lead. Cam
Mowrer's interception and return for a TD pushed the Red Riot lead to 18-7.
Collin Clement ran the 2-point PAT in to make it 20-7 Orono at the half.


The Tigers closed to 20-13 on an 8-yard Ethyn Gould run.


Orono punched another score in when Cameron Mowrer broke free for a 38-yard
touchdown run and a Lewis Hansen PAT rush made it 28-13.


The Riots struck gain when Hansen shook loose for a 25-yard run and Cam Mowrer
rushed the PAT to push the Riot lead to 36-13.


The Tigers scored late on a Fogarty 25-yard pass to junior Matt Bartlett and
then the Riots ran the clock out to gain the victory. Dexter finishes at 3-6
while Orono goes to 6-3 and will travel to play No. 1 Bucksport next Friday for
a semifinal.Messalonskee 28, Hampden 12


At Oakland, Corey McKenzie's seven-yard touchdown run with 1:41 left in the game
gave the third-ranked Messalonskee Eagles a 28-12 high school football victory
over the No. 6 Hampden Academy Broncos in an Eastern Maine Class B quarterfinal
Friday night.


Jake Dexter intercepted a Matt Martin pass to secure the victory.


Martin scored the first TD of the game in the first quarter on a four-yard run
to give the Broncos the lead, but the Eagles responded when Dexter hit Zachary
Mathieu for a 10-yard TD pass. Dexter then came back with a 55-yard TD pass to
McKenzie to give Messalonskee a 12-7 lead.


Hampden answered as Martin hooked up with Matt Closson on a 42-yard scoring pass
and Hampden took a 14-12 lead into the half.


Messalonskee scored the only TD of the third quarter when Devin Warren caught a
29-yard pass from Dexter to give the Eagles a 20-14 lead at the end of the
period.


Hampden again responded, this time with Martin running in a 3-yard TD with 7:17
left before Messalonskee's winning drive, capped by McKenzie's TD run.


Messalonskee improved to 6-3 and Hampden finished at 5-4. Boys SoccerBangor
Christian 2, Shead 1


At Hampden Academy, Ben Miller's goal off an assist from Cody Collins with 10:59
left in the game gave the top-ranked Patriots the victory over the No. 6 Tigers
of Eastport during an Eastern Maine Class D semifinal.


Caleb Peary gave the Patriots the early lead when he scored 2:19 into the game
off a corner kick by Collins. Shead responded 5:06 into the second half when
John Cushing scored.


Bryon Boutot finished with four saves on six shots for 17-0 Bangor Christian
while Ryan Eylar finished with 14 saves on 29 shots for Shead, which ended its
season at 10-5.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News


                              626 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Two 14-year-old boys facing charges in Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 387 words


Two 14-year-old boys are among the latest group of suspects expected to be
charged with offences dating back to the Stanley Cup riot.

Supt. Dean Robinson of the Vancouver Police Department said Tuesday that police
are recommending 118 charges against 27 people in connection with the June 2011
riot. That brings the total number of recommended charges to 1,204 offences
against 352 suspects.

"Our investigators continue to work very closely with Crown counsel, putting
their best cases forward to the courts, as is evident with the number of guilty
pleas that have been entered," Robinson said at a media conference.

He noted that police requested charges against two 14-year-old boys they believe
participated in the riot.

The two could face a combined total of six counts of break and enter, two counts
of mischief, one count of mischief over $5,000 and two counts of participating
in a riot.

Investigators with the Integrated Riot Investigation Team say the latest "round
12" batch of people to be charged will be the last multi-list of suspects. Any
charges in the future against individuals suspected to have participated in the
riot will be done on a case-by-case basis.

Of the 352 suspects, 311 are men and 41 women.

The latest list has charges recommended against a woman who police allege was
caught on videotape assaulting a woman who was trying to protect an unmarked
police car. The Good Samaritan suffered facial and dental injuries. Charges of
participation in a riot, assault, break and enter, and breach of recognizance
also have been recommended against a 24-year-old man from Langley.

At the time of the riot, the man was on recognizance and bound by conditions in
relation to multiple firearms charges, including a requirement to remain under
house arrest and inside his residence.

During the riot, police said, the suspect was captured on film assaulting an
unknown man by kicking him while he was on the ground in a swarming attack in
the 800-block of Granville Street. The suspect was later caught on video
breaking into The Hudson's Bay store, police said.

¦ A man has been charged for alleged involvement in the attack on Good Samaritan
Robert Mackay.

Daniel Amesbury, 22, from Maple Ridge, is the 14th suspect charged by Crown out
of the 15 IRIT-identified suspects in that incident.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              627 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Front: Twitter study casts doubt on ministers' post-riot plans

BYLINE: Paul Lewis James Ball Josh Halliday

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words


Analysis of more than 2.5m Twitter messages relating to the riots in England has
cast doubt on the rationale behind government proposals to ban people from
social networks or shut down their websites in times of civil unrest.

A preliminary study of a database of riot-related tweets, compiled by the
Guardian, appears to show Twitter was mainly used to react to riots and looting.

Timing trends drawn from the data question the assumption that Twitter played a
widespread role in inciting the violence in advance, an accusation also levelled
at the rival social networks Facebook and BlackBerry Messenger.

The unique database contains tweets about the riots sent throughout the
disorder, which began in Tottenham, north London, on 6 August. It also reveals
how extensively Twitter was used to co-ordinate a movement by citizens to clean
the streets after the disorder. More than 206,000 tweets - 8% of the total -
related to attempts to clean up the debris left by four nights of rioting and
looting.

The home secretary, Theresa May, will meet representatives from Facebook,
Twitter and Research in Motion, the Canada-based BlackBerry maker, today. The
companies said they would warn ministers against introducing emergency measures
that could usher in a new form of online censorship. Amid a growing censorship
row, government sources said the home secretary did not expect to discuss
closing social networks, but wanted to explore what measures the companies could
take to help contain future disorder.

David Cameron had previously indicated he would contemplate more restrictive
measures. The day after the riots subsided, the prime minister told parliament
the government was looking at banning people from using sites such as Twitter
and Facebook if they were thought to be plotting criminal activity. Cameron said
the government would do "whatever it takes" to restore order.

The Metropolitan police later revealed it had considered switching off social
networks during the disorder in London, but had decided not to on legal advice.

The Guardian database, which contains riot-related tweets sent between midnight
on 6 August - the day riots began in Tottenham - and 8pm on 17 August, will be
subject to more advanced analysis in the coming weeks.

Captions:

2.5m

Number of riot-related tweets in the Guardian database. They also show how
Twitter was used in the post-riot clearup

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              628 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

B.C. announces Cup riot probe as police detail first charges

BYLINE: Kim Bolan, Vancouver Sun; Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 429  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcohol-fuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

"Everyone wants to understand how this riot happened, ask the tough questions
about it and move forward because we want to keep having these big gatherings
downtown," said Mayor Gregor Robertson.

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

And while Chu praised the progress of the newly formed Integrated Riot
Investigation Team, police also warned about vigilante justice fuelled by the
social media sites highlighting videos and photos of rioters.

"In the ensuing high state of emotions following the recent hockey riot, there
is a growing danger that the tools of social media will be used to mete out
vigilante justice," the VPD said. "The Vancouver Police Department and its
integrated investigation team are asking the public to resist the temptation to
take justice into their own hands. We ask for your patience and continued shows
of responsible good citizenry as the investigation unfolds."

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final. Burnaby, B.C., resident
Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two men were
stabbed that night. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle Evans, 27, has been charged
with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Delta man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who is
accused of stealing a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak,
accused of lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far in part because of the
widespread circulation of riot images and because of collective post-riot guilt.

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said -that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble -though others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, Postmedia News ,File; Rioters loot The Bay as thousands
run amok after Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals in Vancouver on June 15.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              629 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               November 30, 2011

Riot report highlights public's "lack of confidence" in police

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 267  words


A new report has found that a "lack of confidence" in the police following the
first wave of riots in London led to further disturbances across the country.

The Riots, Communities and Victims Panel found it had "encouraged people to test
reactions in other areas".

It found no singular cause for the civil unrest but said it was alarmed at the
"collective pessimism" among the young people it spoke to.

The independent panel looked at the causes of the riots, how communities
responded and ways to avoid a recurrence.

Its 111-page report is based on visits to areas affected by the riots, as well
as meetings at a young offenders institution with some of the perpetrators.

The report stated: "Lack of confidence in the police response to the initial
riots encouraged people to test reactions in other areas.

"Rioters believed they would be able to loot and damage without being challenged
by the police. In the hardest-hit areas, they were correct."

The report ends by saying that there had been a breakdown in one of the police's
founding principles: "The police are the public and the public are the police."

Acting Wandsworth borough commander Gerry Campbell this week highlighted some of
the statistics relating to rioting in Wandsworth.

He states that 109 businesses were attacked, particularly in Clapham Junction,
but with offences also in Tooting, Balham and Putney.

To date 179 suspects have been arrested, 102 charged and put before the courts
and 49 people convicted.

To read the full independent report visit 5daysinaugust.co.uk/ and for more from
Detective Superintendent Campbell see Your Say, Page 10.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              630 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Frome and Somerset Standard

                                August 18, 2011

MP's view of riots ignores several issues

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 748 words


I am, to say the least, shocked by David Heath's comments on the recent riots "
Riots were not political, they were an orgy of theft" (August 11).

Firstly, while I can understand that as a member of a police authority he did
not like its duty to pay for  compensation for riot losses, as an MP he needs a
wider understanding of the relationship between citizen and state.

The theory, in England at least, is that the state has some duties to its
citizens, and maintaining the peace is one of them. If it fails in that duty
then it owes compensation to the citizen. That is why we have the 1886 Riot
(Damages) Act and the Criminal Injuries Compensation scheme. By all means repeal
both sets of legislation and end that duty - just don't expect to be re-elected.

Secondly, I cannot for a moment understand why he, or anybody else, takes David
Cameron's view of the riots seriously - especially given Mr Cameron's  and Boris
Johnson's membership of the Bullingdon Club,  notorious for destructive binges.
Given the recent scandal over MPs' expenses, and now over News International,
MPs and ministers are not exactly in a good position to take the high moral
ground.

Now, I am only a Board of Trade Licensed Boatman with a very small brain, and
unless the editor is willing to give me most of the paper, I must be brief, but
it seems to me that if Government wishes to have some level of  "order" in this
country, it might be a good idea to make sure that there are plenty of jobs
paying wages that can support a family. Instead we have a growing number of
unemployed and working poor.

Having been bailed out by the taxpayer, the banks are paying bonuses like
nothing ever happened, while cuts in housing benefit are, by the Government's
own figures, likely to result in 40,000 families being made homeless. For those
in work, there are pay freezes in both the public and private sector while
inflation runs at four to five per cent. At the same time senior management pay
and perks grow apace, and the super rich avoid tax. It's hardly surprising that
many people are a little bit unhappy.

Even the Daily Telegraph, hardly the mouthpiece of radical socialism, has called
for action to rein in the "feral overclass" of bankers, tax avoiders and
conspicuous consumers because of the disruptive effect they have on society.

I have seen it suggested that Harold Macmillan's politics were in part driven by
the fear that were he to get things wrong, he and his class would end up strung
up from lampposts. Perhaps this might be something that Mr Heath and Mr Cameron
might be well advised to consider.

JOHN BOXALL

Grange Road, Frome

I want to put a counterpoint to the views expressed in last week's Somerset
Standard by our MP David Heath and the editor Sam Holliday.

I fear the speedy indictment of those who rioted and their alienation as a tiny
minority risks worsening rather than healing the "sick society" the Prime
Minister has described.

We have a society which is getting older and in which there are greater number
of pensioners, and relatively fewer young people than in previous generations.
Our politicians have long realised that and act accordingly, and while I quite
understand that many people found the events of last week threatening, the risk
is that we continue the trend of criminalisation of the young (the ASBO being
the most obvious example), fail to seriously question what underlying
frustrations led people to trash their own neighbourhoods, and further the
disenfranchisement of the young.

We are not the future of this country, the young people are. It is they who will
inherit this country and if we can't get beyond castigating them, and show some
tolerance and concern, recognising that it is likely that the frustrations of
the "tiny minority" are shared by many more, then I fear we have further
worrying times ahead.

Frome is showing some leadership here with the selection of young councillors
Sam Phripp and Dickon Moore, but we should not rest on our laurels. I have been
disappointed we have not had more young people at the Saxonvale meetings, for
example, and would accept that we have not done enough to encourage them.

I think the challenge for local politicians and decision makers is this; how can
we give young people a real say in the future of their community? It is after
all their future, and not ours. A future which given the state of the country's
finances and the earth's resources is already looking much more difficult.

LUKE WILDE

Riverside Terrace, Frome

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 185


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              631 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                              FRI REGIONAL Edition

National Western will HOST RIOT FEST

BYLINE: Matt Miller

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 192 words


Punk rock festival Riot Fest has announced it will move to the National Western
Complex when it returns to Denver on Aug. 28 30. This marks the third location
for the music festival in as many years, after the Sports Authority Field at
Mile High parking lot provided a last minute location for Riot Fest when it was
forced out of its original home. The festival also has changed its title to Riot
Fest & Rodeo.

"They understand who we are, want to see the fest succeed and are sincerely some
of the nicest people I've met in quite some time," Riot Fest founder Michael
Petryshyn said of the National Western Complex. "It still moves me to see people
care about Riot as much as I do."

Riot Fest Denver 2015 will feature themed installations as have previous years,
which will be announced in May along with the lineup.

Early bird three day passes go on sale at noon Friday and cost $69.98.

In 2014, Riot Fest made national news when Arapahoe County denied the music
festival temporary use permits to take place at May Farms in the small town of
Byers, east of Denver. The punk and rock music festival made its first
appearance in the state at May Farms in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              632 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Communal Riots reached Muzaffarnagar from Gujrath- Harsh Mandar

LENGTH: 1382 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Oct. 2 -- Noted Social Activist, Mr. Harsh Mandar, a former IAS
officer told that opportunistic politics should be rejected in order to keep the
country free from Communal Riots. A political system which refrains from taking
support from the voters on communal grounds should be promoted. Mr. Harsh Mandar
was addressing a public meeting at Mahboob Husain Jigar Hall, Siasat Office
Complex, Hyderabad. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan, Editor of Siasat Urdu Daily presided
over the meeting.

Continuing his speech, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that Constitution of India
guarantees equal rights to every citizen but we see that whatever promises have
been made in the Constitution are being shattered which is posing a danger to
the solidarity of the country. The happiest think is that still the judiciary is
independent. The people responsible for Genocide have to be answerable at
somewhere or the other. The Human Rights organizations have dragged the
miscreants of Gujrath Communal Riots to the courts and the manner in which the
courts have dealt with these cases had given a hope that Communal Riots would
disappear somewhere in the pages of history but the recurrence of Communal Riots
in Muzaffarnagar has shown that it has not stopped. He further told that the
miscreants who engineered Communal Riots in Gujrath have changed their style.
They have minimized the loss of human lives but they have damaged properties of
the Muslims to the maximum possible extend and they have terrified them so that
they were forced to leave their native places. Another significant thing is that
the origin of Communal Riots this time is not Urban area but it has been
extended to cover Rural areas as well.

Explaining the planning of Communal Riots, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that for the
Communal Riots to erupt, there are three motives. Before the communal riots
takes place the atmosphere is charged with hatred and then the spark of communal
riots is ignited. For elongating the communal riots, the consent of the Govt. is
essential. Citing his own experience as an administrator, he told that the Govt.
needs hardly six hours to control communal riots but when the communal riots
continue for weeks and months, it should construed that Govt. itself wants to
continue communal riots. He told that the communal riot of Muzaffarnagar was a
planned one and it was designed by UP Govt. It was the plan of the Govt. to
ignite communal riots on a smaller scale but the situation went out of its
control.

Mr. Narendra Modi had sent Mr. Amit Shah two months before his visit to UP.
Communal Riots were ignited under the pretext of the false propaganda that two
vehicles belonging to different communities got collided and that was the root
cause of the conflict. By showing the false video clipping, propaganda was made
that one Mr. Sachin was killed who was trying to protect the honour of his
sister. TV already clarified that in this conflict the assassin, Shahnawaz had
neither love affair with the girl nor he used to tease her but he was a complete
stranger. After this incident Khap Panchayath (Save daughter, Save
dauther-in-law) was held in which hatred was promoted. Those came out of
panchayath meeting started destroying Muslim localities. The BJP MLA who misused
the fake video clipping of Sialkot (Pakistan) incident and spread hatred was
arrested yesterday where he should have been arrested long back. Had Govt. taken
active steps to expose the facts and arrested the miscreants who spread venom,
the communal riots could not have been prolonged. He further told that the local
resident told that police was acting like silent spectators. The fact is there
was no firing incident and no lathi charge. Govt. failed to take precautionary
measures and after the eruption of communal riot, it failed to control it. After
the communal riots, Govt. neither did relief work nor gave any ex-gratia to the
victims which is the prime duty of any Govt. In the communal riots of
Muzaffarnagar, more than 50 thousand Muslims were dislodged from their houses.
They are so afraid that they are not prepared to go to their villages. These
communal riots were engineered with an objective of getting the support of
voters on communal grounds. The beauty of BSP was that it had controlled
communal riots.

Stressing the need to implement communal riots bill, Mr. Harsh Mandar told that
in the proposed bill, administration was given more powers earlier whereas we
wanted the Govt. to make administration accountable. The officials who are
negligent in performing their duties during communal riots should be punished.
Action should be taken against the in charge of Military Contingent. We proposed
that the erring officers should be given five years imprisonment so that with
the fear of this punishment, the officers should not neglect taking action
against the miscreant.

Mr. Zahid Ali Khan editor of Siasat in his presidential remarks told that the
Chief Ministers of various States addressed the meeting of National Integration
Council in the wake of Muffarnagar communal riots. Most of them mentioned the
facilities that are given to the Muslims. The best thing Mr. Nitesh Kumar, C.M.
of Bihar told was that in his childhood the festivals which used to be
celebrated in his house are now being celebrated on the roads which are causing
communal riots. He stressed the need to put a ban on such festivals or they
should be celebrated. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan further told that Dr. M. Chenna Reddy,
the former C.M. of A.P. encouraged Ganesh festival. He also pointed out that we
celebrate Milad-un-nabi festival on a grand scale and we erect the large size
cutout of the tomb of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) which is not appropriate. We
should keep these sacred pictures in our houses and we should take care of their
sanctity. Mr. Zahid Ali Khan further told that everyone in the meeting of NIC
was taking about pleasing the Muslims but he believed that instead of talking
about pleasing a notifications and announcements, justice should done to the
Muslims and their wakf properties should be protected. Only by protecting wakf
properties, the problems of the Muslims could be resolved. He wished Mr. Harsh
Mandar to draft Hyderabad Charter for prevention of communal riots bill.

Mr. Syed Vikharuddin Quadri, editor of Rahnuma-e-Deccan told that Communal riots
could be controlled if Govt. wants to do so but stern action is evaded against
the miscreants. He told that the history of communal riots is very long in this
country in which the role of administration has always been suspicious.

Mr. Syed Aziz Pasha, former Rajya Sabha MP of CPI told that Muslims had extended
mass support to SP but within a short span of one year, 47 communal riots took
place and the Govt. failed to control them. It is wrong to presume that the
people of UP are communal. The voters of UP rejected Mr. Kalyan Singh, the then
C.M. of UP saying that he had contacted the people of UP that he had fulfilled
his promise.

Former MP of Rajya Sabha, Mr. P. Madhu told that the communal riots of
Muzaffarnagar are a warning for all of us. The role of the State Govt. in
controlling communal riots has been suspicious. He alleged that RSS and VHP have
been a free hand. Mr. Mahmood Ali, TRS MLC told that we are more concerned about
the unity of the people rather than getting Telangana. Mr. Hamid Mohammed Khan,
President of Movement for Peace and Justice told that the communal forces are
not only active in political field but the younger generation who passed out
from Saraswathi Shishu Mandir are actively engaged in more than 150 fields.
These activists are present in all the political parties but the positive think
is that humanists like Mr. Harsh Mandar exists in society who struggle for
seeking justice for the victims.

Mr. Yousuf Quraishi, former Chairman of A.P. State Minorities Commission told
that Mr. Zahid Ali Khan and Siasat Urdu Daily are always on the forefront in
such social activities to maintain communal harmony and to seek justice for the
victims. Mr. Muneeruddin Mujahid conducted the meeting and thanked the guests
and the audience.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              633 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 20, 2012 Friday

Miss Congeniality guilty plea delayed over court TV

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A former beauty queen contestant has become the second person who's offering to
plead guilty to charges in the Stanley Cup riot, only to have the case delayed
over arguments about allowing TV cameras in the courtroom.

Sophie Laboissonniere, 20, of Richmond, B.C., is accused of break and enter and
taking part in a riot.

The Crown has applied to have the case broadcast on TV as it plans to do with
others accused of taking part in the riot last June 15.

Ms. Laboissonniere's lawyer, David Baker, says his application opposing cameras
will delay the guilty plea and sentencing and waste court resources in the
process.

"Were it not for the Crown's application I probably would have already entered a
plea and had a date for sentencing set," he said outside court.

In a posting on her now-defunct blog, Ms. Laboissonniere said she was crowned
Miss Congeniality at a Miss Coastal Vancouver pageant last year.

She's accused of helping loot the downtown London Drugs store during the riot
that broke out after the Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup final to the
Boston Bruins.

Mr. Baker says she's doing everything she can to atone for her public mistakes
but suffers through more media attention than others because of her beauty queen
past.

The first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, will also have his
case delayed over the issue of cameras in the court after his lawyer told court
Tuesday that he will challenge the Crown application to broadcast the
proceedings.

Mr. Dickinson pleaded guilty to participating in a riot and breach of
recognizance related to a previous assault charge.

Ms. Laboissonniere and Mr. Dickinson are among 30 people who have been charged
so far with riot-related offences.

However, Vancouver police have recommend charges against 70 others and say
hundreds of people could eventually be charged in the riot that caused millions
of dollars in damage to businesses.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              634 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              June 19, 2011 Sunday

Cheriyathura riots well-planned: Kerala DGP

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, June 19 -- Director-General of Police Jacob Punnoose said
that he suspected that the second riots which broke out at Cheriyathura in May
2009 resulting in police firing, was a planned action. The DGP was giving his
statement on Saturday before the Judicial Inquiry Commission probing the riot
and subsequent police firing. The DGP stated that following the riot, which
broke out on May 16, the police and district administration officials had camped
in the area and brought the situation under control after holding talks with the
representatives of both communities. But the riot broke out again the next day
afternoon which forced the police to open fire on the agitators, resulting in
the death of five persons. The way the riot suddenly broke out and the
substances used by the rioters hinted that the riot was pre-planned, he said.

Taking into account the sensitive nature of the coastal areas in the state, a
decision had been taken to open new coastal police stations with the aid from
Central Government. It was also decided to install surveillance cameras in
Beemapally region as the place is an important religious centre. The place is
also a thriving centre of illegal activities such as sales of pirated CDs and
foreign goods as well as in illegal foreign currency exchange, he said. The DGP
said that had the religious heads of both the communities in Beemapally and
Cheriyathura put in honest efforts, the riot could have been averted. During
cross-examination, Jacob Punnoose said that the confidential report from Central

Intelligence Bureau addressed to the DGP and Home Secretary recommending
reinforced surveillance in Beemapally and Malappuram areas on account of a
possible law and order problems, was not leaked from his office. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              635 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday

Reading Eagle, Pa., Holly Herman column

BYLINE: Holly Herman, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 418 words


Feb. 24--The conviction last Friday of former Luzerne County Judge Mark A.
Ciavarella Jr. in the "cash for kids" scheme made national news.

Ciavarella was convicted of receiving $1 million from the builder of a detention
center. Berks County Senior Judge Arthur E. Grim presided over the cases of kids
whom Ciavarella sentenced to the facility.

While Ciavarella's trial was going on in Scranton, the Reading Eagle was
reporting on cases of juveniles in a Nov. 15 riot in Abraxas Academy, New
Morgan.

It was the second riot within five months at the privately run facility that
houses up to 82 violent offenders.

A total of nine juveniles were arrested in riots June 12 and Nov. 15. Six have
been adjudicated. One case is pending in juvenile court. Two are in adult court.

The first riot was reported in the media. Eight counselors suffered injuries.
The second riot, however, was kept quiet.

The media didn't find out about it until Feb. 9, when the case of a 17-year-old
charged in the riot was in juvenile court.

In the second riot, a counselor was stabbed, several residents sustained broken
noses and a desk was thrown out a window.

Abraxas has a history of problems. In 2002 the facility closed because of
reports of sexual assaults, mostly involving counselors abusing residents.

The facility reopened in 2006, and since then the state Department of Welfare
has suspended its license three times for lack of supervision.

After the June riot, the Pennsylvania Office of Open Records denied a Reading
Eagle request for copies of complaints the state Department of Public Welfare
received about the facility.

The agency said complaints about juveniles and employees are not public records.

Berks County does not send juveniles to Abraxas. Juvenile authorities said
serious offenders are sent to five other secure facilities.

Grim said that Glen Mills, a private facility in Delaware County, provides an
excellent approach to dealing with hard-core offenders.

It assigns veteran offenders in the facility to serve as mentors to new
offenders.

Maybe Abraxas should look to Glen Mills for ideas.

Covering up problems is not the solution to ending them.

Contact Holly Herman: 610-478-6291 or hherman@readingeagle.com

To see more of the Reading Eagle, or to subscribe, go to
http://www.readingeagle.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Reading Eagle, Pa. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110224-RE-Reading-Eagle-Pa-Holly-Herman-column-0224-20110224

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2011 Reading Eagle


                              636 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             August 13, 2004 Friday
                                 First Edition

Push for forceful anti-riot arsenal

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words


Police are considering the use of riot-control equipment such as rubber bullets,
armoured rescue vehicles, long-range capsicum spray and gas grenades in a more
forceful policy against public disorder in response to February's riot in
Redfern.

Police regard the equipment - categorised as "offensive" but "less than lethal"
- as more effective in dispersing groups of people while maximising the
protection of police because it can be deployed from a distance.

An internal police report by Strike Force Coburn recommended police consider
using the equipment because the riot gear available on the night of the Redfern
riot was inadequate.

Forty-five police and two police dogs were injured in the riot.

The report said "impact projectiles" offered "the capability to overcome an
offender's resistance from a safe distance through the use of only impact
energy".

However, the report said its legal advice was that the use of such equipment was
not in current police guidelines and would expose the force to criticism and
possible legal liability.

This could be avoided through adequate training and operating routines and new
protocols for authorising the equipment's use.

Another recommendation was that police public order management policy should be
rewritten to reflect "a change in the corporate philosophy ... encompassing more
forceful police action to unlawful behaviour rather than just containment as a
goal".

The Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, has refused to release the report until
next Tuesday, when the NSW Coroner, John Abernethy, is to deliver his findings
into the death of Thomas "TJ" Hickey, which led to the riot.

A copy of the report was leaked to the media yesterday.

It found that Redfern police had failed to identify warning signs before the
riot, partly because of a breakdown in the relationship with their Aboriginal
community liaison officers.

Inspector Bob Emery, of Redfern police, told the taskforce the liaison officer
called on the afternoon of the riot was "hopeless, intoxicated and had no
driver's licence".

Before the riot, the Redfern local area command had only three registered
informants reporting on drug activity - half the state average. There are now
five, and the report recommended boosting intelligence gathering across
commands.

It said warning signs were "clearly evident" but local police, accustomed to
low-level unrest, did not sense any cause for alarm.

The report said the riot equipment at Redfern should be upgraded because it was
inadequate, ill-fitting and below "operational quality".

The Deputy Commissioner, Dave Madden, said yesterday that he had accepted the
recommendations but no action would be taken against officers involved.

"I'm not looking for heads in relation to this matter," he said, adding that
police had identified failings in some of the decisions made on the night and in
back-up support and equipment and were rectifying the problems.

MAIN RECOMMENDATIONS

* Police should investigate the use of "less than lethal" riot equipment,
including rubber bullets, long-range capsicum spray and armoured rescue vehicles
similar to those used in Northern Ireland.

* A change in the police "corporate philosophy" towards riots to add a "more
forceful" attitude to the policy of containment.

* Riot equipment at Redfern police station should be upgraded.

* Better intelligence gathering across local area commands.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              637 of 999 DOCUMENTS



              The Bath County News-Outlook (Owingsville, Kentucky)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  May 7, 2015

Lets Reason Together;
RIOTS AND RIGHTS

BYLINE: The Bath County News-Outlook staff

LENGTH: 270  words


The recent riots in Baltimore seem to be part of the. fabric of modern society.
A man dies while committing a crime, while in pursuit, when resisting arrest, or
while in custody. We have come to think that death gives society the right to
riot; and so the Mayor says to the police, "Give the rioters some space" to do
their own thing. Let's see: they throw rocks at police, break into businesses
and steal whatever they can take, burn cars, and anything else their debased
mind can think of. And all the while the police lineup and watch to "keep things
from getting out of hand"! Give me a break. The moment a riot begins things are
"out of hand". The first window broken out of a business, the first car that is
burned, or the first rock thrown at police officers is the time for the heavy
hand of the law to move in and restore order. There is no "right to riot". We
can speak up. We can have peaceful protests. We can vote. But we have no right
to disregard the law. We have no right to destroy other people's property. We
have no right to throw stones at anyone. We have no right to riot and mob
violence is not the way of peace.

The real tragedy of riots is that some of the people involved go to church every
Sunday. And according to news reports some "preachers" even encourage the
rioters to engage in mob violence. Preachers who incite riots should read and
heed Exodus 23:2, "You shall not follow a crowd to do evil..." Is it evil to
loot businesses? Is it evil to destroy other people's property? How can
preachers claim to follow "the Prince of Peace" and encourage others to riot?

Thank you for reasoning with me.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Community

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BAO

                      Copyright 2015 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                 Copyright 2015 The Bath County News - Outlook


                              638 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Chavan orders inquiry into Maharashtra riots

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: Mumbai


umbai, Jan. 16 -- Under pressure from various quarters, the Maharashtra
Government has ordered a judicial probe into the January 6, 2013 communal riots,
in which six persons were killed and 169 others injured.

In an announcement made after touring the riot-hit areas of Dhule, Chief
Minister Prithviraj Chavan said that a retired judge would conduct a probe into
the circumstances leading to the communal riots in the north Maharashtra town.
The retired judge concerned would be asked to submit his report to the State
Government at the earliest.

According to the Chief Minister, the probe will go into the cause of the riots
and suggest measures to prevent recurrence of similar disturbances in future.

Though the Chief Minister did not specify on whether the judicial probe would go
into the circumstances leading to the police opening fire against rioters,
official sources said that this issue would be one of the terms of references
for the inquiry.

The Maharashtra Government is expected to issue a notification on the setting up
of a judicial inquiry in the coming days. The notification will spell out the
terms of reference for the probe.

The decision to institute a judicial probe follows a demand from several
quarters, including the ruling Congress-NCP leaders and local residents.

Preliminary investigations have revealed that all the six persons killed in the
January 6, 2013 riots had succumbed to wounds sustained in the firing resorted
to by the police during the riots.

Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Government has announced that the next of kin of
those killed in the riots would be paid '5 lakh each as compensation, while
those who have been rendered permanently disabled due to injuries would be paid
'3 lakh each.

The families who have lost their homes in the riots would be paid compensation
on the basis of norms stipulated in a notification issued by the State
Government in August 2004. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Police deny any pre-riot warning; 'The VPD had no creditable information . . .
that a riot was about to occur'

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 414  words


The Vancouver Police Department reacted angrily Thursday to published reports
based on documents released through Freedom of Information that imply police
were warned about the potential for Stanley Cup rioting by the general manager
of the Liquor Control and Licensing Branch.

According to the reports, Karen Ayers wrote of "escalating problems,
intoxication, violence and pre-riotous behaviour" in making the June 12 decision
"to close all liquor stores in the downtown Vancouver core at 4 p.m. tomorrow
evening" (for Game 6 of the Stanley Cup final).

Three days later on June 15, during Game 7, a riot did take place, and ever
since authorities have wrangled about whether or not police knew or should have
known that a riot was a possibility.

"Today, Vancouver police took the unusual step of issuing a formal statement to
clarify a story that is being fed by wrong information and misguided
conclusions," the VPD said in a statement entitled, Get The Facts Straight.

"Reports that VPD received information from the Liquor Control and Licensing
Board that there would be a riot are simply wrong and untrue. The reports are
based on a Freedom of Information request that retrieved information from the
LCLB concerning liquor store closures on the day of the last game of the Stanley
Cup final.

"Stories are still being generated that say the VPD knew a riot was coming
because the LCLB told them. This is absolutely false."

The unsigned police statement - emailed out to media by the VPD media liaison -
appears to reflect the frustration the department is feeling after months of
public questioning of police intelligence.

"As difficult as it may be for some to hear, the VPD had no creditable
information from anyone that a riot was about to occur," it reads.

"If anyone in the media had information to that effect we would welcome them to
come forward and explain why they never shared it."

On one hand, the VPD applauds the majority of the media coverage.

"Most of the reporting on the riot and the aftermath has been accurate and
insightful," it reads.

But slipped into the last paragraph of the police statement comes the highly
debatable assertion that reporters somehow incited the riot.

"We are concerned about stories created that choose to inflame the rhetoric
about the riot based on wrong information, as we were originally concerned by
stories and reporters who beat the drum most loudly inciting crowds to gather in
the first place."

iaustin@theprovince.com

twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne - PNG; Vancouver police have issued a statement saying that
most of the reporting about the June 15 Stanley Cupfinal, Game 7 riot has been
accurate, but took offence at some stories.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              640 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              July 25, 2008 Friday

Race-riot programs feature free symposium at presidential library

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 533 words


A free daylong symposium covering aspects of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot tops
the list of race-riot programs stretching from August through October sponsored
by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

The symposium on Saturday, Aug. 16, includes lunch and a copy of Roberta
Senechal de la Roche's book, "In Lincoln's Shadow: The 1908 Race Riot in
Springfield" for every participant. Historians and experts on the race riot will
give presentations from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the presidential library.

Reservations are required and limited. To register, call 558-8934 by Aug. 16.

Other race-riot events at the presidential library and museum recently announced
include:

* Three public discussions of Senechal's book at Springfield College-Benedictine
University's Beata Hall Conference Room. The first, Aug. 21, will examine the
history and chronology of the riot. The second, Aug. 28, will take a look at the
people involved in the riot. The final discussion, Sept. 4, will be about the
riot's aftermath.

Each discussion will run from 6 to 7:30 p.m. and will be led by college faculty,
local historical and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
leaders.

* Springfield artist Brian Gillis' "audio, literal and visual" exhibit on the
riot opens Aug. 16. The exhibit, based on maps, arrest records, court
proceedings, death records and other riot-related historical material, will run
through October at the presidential library.

* Senechal de la Roche will discuss her book at 7 p.m. Sept. 11 at the
presidential museum's Union Theater. The event is free, but reservations are
required and can be made by calling 558-8934 or visiting
www.presidentlincoln.org. Following the event, Senechal will sign copies of the
book.

* Morris Dees, co-founder of the Southern Poverty Law Center, will give the
keynote address at an NAACP Illinois State Conference gathering at 7 p.m. Oct.
10 at the Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center. Tickets for non-conference
participants are $10. Reservations are required and can be made by calling
558-8934 or visiting www.presidentlincoln.org.

* Paula Giddings, author of "Ida: A Sword among Lions: Ida B. Wells and the
Campaign against Lynching," will discuss her book at 7 p.m. Oct. 23 in the Union
Theater. The event is free, but reservations are required and can be made by
calling 558-8934 or visiting www.presidentlincoln.org. Afterward, Giddings will
sign copies of her book.

* A free, two-floor exhibit of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot currently on
display at the presidential library will continue through October.

On Aug. 14, 1908, a white mob, angry after being kept from lynching two black
inmates in the county jail, turned against black residents and businesses in
Springfield. After two days of rioting, at least seven people were dead,
including two black men who were lynched, and dozens of homes and businesses
were destroyed.

The riot led to the formation of the NAACP.

To learn more

* For more information about race-riot events at the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library and Museum, visit www.presidentlincoln.org.

* For more information about the Springfield 1908 Race Riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              641 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            January 27, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Flare-up headache for Iemma

BYLINE: Steven Scott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 623 words


The NSW government is grappling with the aftermath of race riots, writes Steven
Scott.

NSW Premier Morris Iemma has spent the past two weeks deflecting charges that he
has been soft on Lebanese gangs who committed reprisal attacks after last
month's anti-Muslim riots at Cronulla Beach.

He has beefed up the state's riot squad and created a new Middle Eastern
organised crime unit.

NSW police also stood down a top detective for allegedly keeping secret
closed-circuit television footage showing people of Middle Eastern appearance in
a reprisal attack the night after the Cronulla riots.

Jamal Rifi, a former ethnic affairs commissioner who is now president of a
Lakemba sports association, said the Lebanese community in south-western Sydney
still backed Mr Iemma and they accepted he was just trying to strike a balance.

He also said it was OK for the Premier to call those caught on CCTV footage in
reprisal attacks "grubs".

"I don't care if he calls them 'grubs'. I'll call them grubs. They are criminals
and they should be caught," Dr Rifi said.

"This is a storm in a teacup. It's not going to damage the Premier's standing,"
he said of the media and opposition criticism.

"His standing in the community actually went higher after the Cronulla riot."

The fallout from the Cronulla riots, which forced Mr Iemma to close down some
Sydney beaches at the height of summer, has emerged as a crucial test for the
Premier just a year from the next election.

On the first day after his summer holiday, Mr Iemma paraded a newly enhanced
riot squad before journalists, saying the government was cracking down on gang
violence. The riot squad of 50 officers could be deployed at short notice to
prevent a repeat of the riots on Cronulla Beach on December 11, Mr Iemma said.
Within days, however, he was on the back foot, forced into responding to
Opposition Leader Peter Debnam's criticisms about the lack of arrests of people
who took part in reprisal attacks.

At first, Mr Iemma dismissed the allegations as ridiculous and said the police
were doing all they could to catch the suspects. But by the time it emerged that
Channel 9 had obtained CCTV footage of reprisal attacks, Mr Iemma was in a
difficult position.

Instead of defending a police decision not to release the footage while the
investigation continued, Mr Iemma ordered an internal inquiry into what he
called the "tactical decision" not to release the video and announced that
another 72 police officers would be added to the riot squad.

NSW Police Commissioner Ken Moroney, who was made an officer of the Order of
Australia yesterday, said he had not been told about the existence of the
footage.

Mr Moroney then removed acting Detective Superintendent Dennis Bray, the head of
the police unit investigating the attacks, leading to allegations of
scapegoating.

The NSW Police Association threatened to strike on the eve of Australia Day,
when Mr Iemma had already promised an enhanced police presence at beaches and
community events.

Mr Bray was reinstated, but as second in command of the unit. The police union's
demands for an apology were not met. There are concerns within the Labor Party
about the political fallout. Some claim the government has been damaged by
police errors.

"There are significant concerns about how the police have handled this," said
one Labor backbencher, who did not want to be named.

But political consultant Bruce Hawker, once chief of staff to former premier Bob
Carr, said Mr Iemma had handled the public relations crisis well.

"It's an issue that's going to be around for some time. Has it damaged his
premiership? No," Mr Hawker said.

"Provided Morris keeps telling the public what he's doing to crack down on this
lawlessness, they will give him credit for it."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fallout from the Cronulla riots last month is worrying some in
the Labor Party. Photo: ANDREW MEARES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2006 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              642 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Rahul Gandhi knows nothing about 1984 Sikh riots? His father Rajiv Gandhi had
ignored calls from President Giani Zail Si...

LENGTH: 558  words


New Delhi: The Rahul Gandhi Times Now interview seems to have freshened the
wounds of Sikh families still awaiting justice in the 1984 Sikh riots.

In Frankly Speaking With Arnab, Rahul Gandhi had asserted that the Congress
government did everything to stop the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi in 1984. However,
the then President Giani Zail Singh's press secretary Tarlochan Singh alleged
that the riots were "orchestrated and sponsored." He even claimed that the then
PM Rajiv Gandhi did not even take calls from the President when he tried to get
in touch with him to discuss the situation, reports The Indian Express.

"The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the Government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots. In
Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong," Rahul
had said during the TV interview.

In contrast to Rahul Gandhi's assertion that Narendra Modi abetted the riots in
Gujarat in 2002, Tarlochan Singh claimed that the police in Gujarat tried to
prevent the rioters resulting in the killing of 137 people in police firing
unlike in Delhi where only one person was killed in police action.

"Indira Gandhi was shot dead in the morning, but the first riots started in the
evening. Gyaniji collected this information himself that a meeting of Congress
leaders - attended by Arun Nehru and Delhi leaders like HKL Bhagat, Jagdish
Tytler and all - took place before Rajiv Gandhi arrived from Kolkata. They
decided to give a slogan 'khoon ka badla khoon'. The first riot then took place
near INA market," The Indian Express quoted Tarcholan Singh as saying.

Mr Singh further said if the riots were "spontaneous", they should have been
started in the morning itself. However, it all started in the evening.

"The President wanted to speak to the PM about the largescale arson and violence
in Delhi. The PM did not get back to the President. All night he tried over
telephone. Nobody responded. In the morning, he tried to speak to Home Minister
Narasimha Rao. He was told that we are all busy in making arrangements for the
funeral. He was told that the Lt Governor and the Police Commissioner are taking
control. The whole of next day, neither the PM nor the Home Minister took any
interest in defusing the situation or help the victims," Tarlochan Singh told
Indian Express.

Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi gave his second interview in the year 2014.
His TV interview came nearly two weeks after he spoke to Kalpesh Yagnik of
Dainik Bhaskar in his first ever one-on-one exclusive interview.

Congress vice-president and poll campaign chief Rahul Gandhi opened up to an
elaborate interview after his political debut in 2004. He took direct questions
on wide range of subjects including questions if he was scared of a political
face off against Modi? What is his view on 1984 Sikh riots? Was he a reluctant
politician? How does he hold Narendra Modi responsible for Gujarat riots?

But his answers during the interview have sparked controversies which might hurt
an already-in-crisis Congress just few weeks before the 2014 Lok Sabha
elections.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              643 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 27, 2015 Tuesday

?Azam cause of all riots in UP, will go jail if BJP comes to power: Sangeet Som

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: MEERUT

LENGTH: 309 words


Meerut: BJP MLA and Muzaffarnagar riots accused Sangeet Som has said that Uttar
Pradesh minister Azam Khan would be sent to jail if the saffron party comes to
power in the state after 2017 Assembly elections. Addressing a public meeting in
Mahalka village of Meerut district on Sunday, the Sardhana MLA said the
controversial Samajwadi Party leader was the "cause of all riots" in the state.

Referring to the recent communal violence in Kannauj, Som said, "Ever since the
SP government has come to power in UP, there have been over 400 communal riots
in the state. Look at what happened in Kannauj. Will they blame these clashes on
me and my party as well? Even the local MP (Dimple Yadav) is from their party."
The MLA went on to add that the sole reason for the spurt in these riots was
Azam Khan.

Alleging that the Akhilesh Yadav government has been shielding those who have
fanned violence, Som said, "The state government has consistently been shielding
politicians that fan riots and spread hatred across the state. Instances of
riots have become a weekly affair in UP now. Why is the state government not
admitting that it has failed to do its duty of maintaining law and order in the
state?" The MLA added, "If the BJP comes to power in the state after the
assembly elections of 2017, we will ensure that such people pay for what they
have done. We will send them to jail and maintain law and order."

Days after the Dadri incident, Som had visited Bisada village where a man,
Akhlaq, was killed by a mob on the suspicion that he had stored and consumed
beef and had allegedly said, "We'll give a befitting reply if action was taken
against innocent people (in the case)." Earlier this month, Som had told the
press that his party would impose section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code
in cases of cow slaughter.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              644 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 16, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

WOOF JUSTICE;
Officers bark like dogs to ward off jail riots

BYLINE: FERGUS O'SHEA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 248 words


JAIL wardens in riot drills are BARKING at each other - after bosses retired all
their canine pals last week.

Sixteen attack dogs have been stood down by the Irish Prison Service following a
review of their role over the past five years.

The Germans Shepherds were brought in to frighten inmates during riots in the
slammer, but prison bosses claim they were only used a couple of times.

Staff are upset the animals have been taken away from them without consultation
This week saw officers go through a major riot control exercise in the Curragh
Prison in Kildare.

And one insider revealed: "With all patrol dogs stood down, staff are simulating
them on certain drills, some jokingly saying 'woof woof'. Big laugh until you
really need a dog."

Prison management argue that the animals were only deployed twice in five years.

However a prison insider refuted this, claiming: "They were used in the riot on
the A division yard in Mountjoy, the D division recreation hall riot, sit-down
protests...

"They patrolled Mountjoy externally for two years as a deterrent to throw-overs,
which virtually stopped after numerous arrests. They patrolled the perimeter
walls on Cork, Castlerea and Midlands.

"Staff see it as another layer of their protection being peeled away."

And the insider added: "Handlers also fear that the dogs will be now put down."

However an IPS spokesman insisted: "Suitable homes need to be found for them. It
won't be easy, but there is no intention to put them down."

@IRISHSUNONLINE

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gone ... riot control dogs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              645 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

UK riots analysis reveals gangs did not play pivotal role

BYLINE: Alan Travisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

Official figures show those arrested came from deprived backgrounds, striking a
blow to theory that tackling gang culture is key to preventing repeat of
disturbances

FULL TEXT

Gangs did not play a pivotal role in the August riots, according to the latest
official analysis of those arrested during the disturbances.

The official figures show that 13% of those arrested in the riots have been
identified as gang members, rising to 19% in London, but the analysis shows that
even where the police identified gang members being present most forces believe
they did not play a pivotal role.

The finding by senior Whitehall officials is a blow to the principle response to
the riots being pushed strongly by the work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan
Smith - that tackling gang culture is key to preventing any repeat of the
disturbances.

The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Home Office background analysis show that
those arrested during the riots overwhelmingly came from deprived areas and had
the poorest educational backgrounds.

More than two-thirds of the young people involved were classed as having special
educational needs and one-third had been excluded from school in the past year.
More than 42% were in receipt of free school meals.

The analysis shows that the ethnic backgrounds of those brought before the
courts for riot-related offences were in line with the local population, with
42% of defendants white and 46% black. Only 7% were Asian.

But the ethnic composition of court defendants was significantly different from
the local area profile in three places: Haringey in north London, where 55% of
defendants were black compared with 17% of young people locally; Nottingham,
where 62% of defendants were black compared with 9% locally, and Birmingham,
where 46% of defendants were black compared with 9% of young people locally.

The Home Office figures were based on 5,175 crimes recorded across 19 police
forces - the vast majority in London, Manchester and Birmingham. More than 40%
happened within town or city centres and 20% within shopping malls or other
"defined retail cores" in the town centres.

Half the crimes were committed against commercial premises. A total of 2,584
shops and other commercial premises were targeted in the riots.

The MoJ figures confirm that 90% of those arrested in the riots were male. More
than half were under 20. They also confirm the more punitive nature of the
courts, with 42% of those tried in magistrates courts sent to prison compared
with only 12% normally.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              646 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Venting

BYLINE: Edmonton Journal

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 552  words


/vent-ing/ v.t. to give free play or expression to an emotion or passion

To the Vancouver kissing couple: Way to go! In the midst of a riot, they chose
to make love, not war.

I can't wait for the new arena to open in downtown Edmonton. Then we can have
riots in the core as well.

The Vancouver riots are just like Edmonton's in 2006, which included a bonfire
on Whyte Avenue. It is always a small minority of losers who cause these. Sadly,
unless we ban all public gatherings, they will always happen.

There would have been a riot regardless of whether Vancouver won or lost. It's
shameful.

My grandson's suggestion on how to stop the hockey riots: Throw in Tim Thomas;
he can stop anything.

When cops show up en masse in their riot gear the way they did, it just creates
an us-against-them mentality. It's not the way to go. When will they finally
realize that?

One thing for sure, the Edmonton Police Service need not worry about having a
Stanley Cup riot on our streets for some time to come.

What better motivation could Boston have had to win the Cup than a devastating
cheap shot on one of its players?

Has anybody else noticed that labour unions only strike in the summer in Canada?

It has been a week already without receiving any bills in the mail. Keep up with
the good work!

The Alberta government is way off the mark by not properly funding education.
Children are the future and need all the help they can get to make things great.

Since Education Minister Dave Hancock says cuts won't significantly affect
classrooms, let's push for cuts in the legislature: fewer MLAs, fewer meetings,
fewer support staff. It won't significantly affect any government services we
are receiving.

This government doesn't worry about staffing its great new buildings, whether
museums, hospitals or medical clinics. It's all about the monuments. The
construction companies do well.

People who get mad at road con- struction workers need to realize the world
doesn't revolve around them. If you can't slow down for a few hundred metres to
respect the people trying to improve traffic flow, take the bus.

If there is another city that has worse road planning for construction and
maintenance, we offer our condolences. May God help your city planners, as He
certainly hasn't helped ours.

Coun. Krushell is absolutely right that the government should take over the
Yellowhead Trail. Calgary has no problem getting money to finish its
interchanges. Edmonton needs to be treated exactly the same way by this
Conservative government.

We should take down all the speed-limit signs in the cities and highways, as
nobody follows the speed limits anymore.

The owner of the Dallas Mavericks, NBA champions, promised to pay for a victory
parade in Dallas because the city is in a deficit. What a classy gesture. I hope
Mayor Mandel and the owner of the Oilers are listening.

Stephen Harper, Ralph Klein and Brian Mulroney have crippled any trust I could
possibly have in the Conservatives.

Obama overspends and the people hate him. Harper overspends and the people love
him. Don't you love Canada?

"Slutty clothing speaks volumes?" So do shallow-minded people.

E-mail venting@edmontonjournal. com, phone 780-429-5196 or follow

us at twitter.com/EJ_Venting. To read more vents, go to edmontonjournal.com or
facebook.com/EJVenting. Compiled by Philip Mail

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              647 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Reply: Letter: Lawful riot control

BYLINE: Rabinder Singh and Alex Bailin

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 196 words


Tim Leach is justifiably concerned at the apparently unqualified reference in
the Blair Peach report to police officers being legally justified at common law
in killing rioters if the riot cannot be otherwise suppressed (Letters, 28
April). Archbold (a leading criminal law textbook) no longer contains any such
reference. Common law riot was abolished by the Public Order Act 1986 when a new
statutory offence of riot was created. Although Article 2 of the European
convention on human rights (which is part of our domestic law under the Human
Rights Act) contemplates killing by police officers "in action lawfully taken
for the purpose of quelling a riot or insurrection", such action must be
"absolutely necessary". In particular, the authorities ought generally to have
non-lethal riot-prevention equipment at their disposal, otherwise it will be
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to contend that lethal force was
strictly justified in the circumstances. Nor can there be any such necessity if
a person within the riot who is sought to be apprehended poses no physical
threat and is not suspected of having used any violence.

Rabinder Singh QC and Alex Bailin QC

Matrix

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              648 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday

BJP demands CBI probe into Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 8 -- The Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded CBI probe into the
Muzaffarnagar riots saying that Justice Vishnu Kant Sahai report on riots was
fabricated and was aimed to give the Akhilesh Yadav Government a clean chit.

"The Term of reference of the one man Vishnu Sahai committee was to find out the
reasons of the riot that singed Muzaffarnagar and its adjoining areas.
Unfortunately, the probe panel has failed to find the real cause. It only gave a
clean chit to the Akhilesh Yadav Government," BJP spokesman Vijay Bahadur Pathak
said in a statement issued here on Monday.

He said that the Government should recommend CBI probe into the riot so that the
truth can come to light as who are the people responsible for sparking pogrom.
"The BJP is of firm belief that Samajwadi Party Government and its ministers
were behind the riot. Unless the probe is carried out by a central investigating
agency the truth will not come out," he said.

The BJP spokesman said that call details of the all the senior political leaders
and ministers should be examined. The call details of the district officials
will also throw light as who are the people behind this riot. "This can only be
done by CBI so that case should be handed over the CBI," he said.

The BJP spokesman also questioned BSP chief Mayawati for trying to put SP and
BJP on same bracket. "BSP is doing politics on this issue. When Muzaffarnagar
riot took place SP and BSP were supporting UPA Government. Mayawati should first
explain her party's relation with SP," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              649 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               February 28, 2012

Croydon riot aftermath panel tries to bring community together

BYLINE: Hannah Williamson

SECTION: NEWS CROYDON (NEWS)

LENGTH: 265  words


About 40 residents and business owners attended a community conversation about
the riots on Wednesday.

The event was organised by Croydon Voluntary Action (CVA) in partnership with
the Guardian and London School of Economic (LSE).

The LSE presented the findings of their Read the Riots study which was published
last December and included interviews with about 270 people who had participated
in the riots.

The audience then discussed with panellists their own experiences of the riots
and the challenges they believed lie ahead.

The panel included Croydon North MP Malcolm Wicks, Carl Neilson owner of
Rockbottom, Councillor Vidhi Mohan, Karen Chillman manager of CVA and Yemisi
Adegoke a Croydon resident and researcher for the Reading the Riots study.

The meeting was chaired by Richard Serunjogi of the Spirit of London Awards.

He said: "We had a pretty good audience and importantly I think everyone wanted
to work together to make Croydon a better place which is something that really
stood out.

"One woman who owned a laundrette that had been destroyed even said she
understood and empathised with the young people involved. She said if you had no
hope, hadn't done well at school, had no job, felt let down by society and the
opportunity arose for you to loot shops and take what you wanted for one day
only you would go for it.

"The unique thing about Croydon is there is a wide range of people living here,
but when the going gets tough everyone is prepared to work together."

The riot review panel into the causes of the Croydon riots in August is due to
present its findings at noon today.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              650 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

THE WORLD WATCHES VANCOUVER

BYLINE: Josh O'Kane

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; RIOTS IN VANCOUVER; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 482 words


Vancouver's image as an urban paradise, gained during the Olympics, was
shattered on an international scale when rioters tore the city's downtown to
shreds.

Canadians who had earlier piled on the Canucks bandwagon were distancing
themselves on social networks and in the media from the thousands who packed the
city's downtown core for Game 7 who torched, looted and cheered on public
vandalism in light of the Canucks' loss.

But what happened didn't just shock people at home. International media on
Thursday shone their light away from the Stanley Cup game and onto the crowds.

Sports Illustrated ran it as their top story with enormous art and a vaguely
apologetic lead: "I feel bad for the 99 percent of Vancouver residents who
didn't riot," Michael Rosenberg wrote. Passionate sports fans are going to cause
riots, he continued, but no matter the city, it's going to tarnish its
reputation - "all of North America now sees Vancouver as a city of chokers and
jerks."

The Christian Science Monitor wrote that "Vancouver riots have Canadians
blushing." CBS ran a headline quote calling Vancouver "embarrassed." The front
page of Australia's Sydney Morning Herald ran a now-infamous photo of a couple
kissing in the riots, noting immediately that "a massive fight raged around
them."

The New York Times called it "one of the worst episodes of rioting Canada has
seen in decades" - this less than a year after Toronto's G20 summit. Times
reporters wrote a lengthy piece on the destruction that made its website's top
stories of the day, and pointed out that Wednesday night's riots "far
outstripped" the violence after the Canucks' 1994 Cup final loss.

Len Berman at The Huffington Post wrote, "...it's a Stanley Cup tradition. The
two teams shake hands when it ends, and then the fans show their sportsmanship
by rioting."

On the main sports site of the BBC online, the only hockey-related story was on
Vancouver's riots. "Riot police in Vancouver used tear gas to quell violence
that broke out after the Vancouver Canucks lost the final game of the Stanley
Cup," the BBC wrote.

International news websites also showcased photo slideshows and video montages
of the destruction - Der Spiegel, Le Monde, al-Jazeera and others.

"Vancouver riots" was among the top "in the news" headlines on The Washington
Post - with no front headlines about the game itself - and in the U.K., The
Guardian featured a scathing attack on the riots from famed Vancouver musician
Matthew Good that was at one point the site's most-viewed story. Both news
websites ran headlines saying the riots had "shamed" the city.

Mr. Good's column, co-opted from his much-read and highly political blog, called
the riots an "utter embarrassment" that "disgraced" Vancouver and will for years
to come. "If the Olympics succeeded in charming the pants off the world, that
warm, fuzzy feeling has now been decimated."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 29, 2013 Tuesday

BRIEF: Riot occurs at one of Turkish women's prisons

BYLINE: R. Hafizoglu, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 109 words


Oct. 29--A riot broke out at one of the women's prisons in the Turkish province
of Mus, CNN Turk TV channel reported today.

According to the TV channel, the cause of the riot was the deterioration of
prisoners' conditions. It is also reported that the prisoners set fire to one of
the cells as a sign of protest. Seven people were injured.

According to the TV channel, all injured were taken to the city hospital. An
investigation is underway.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2013 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131029-1AZ-BRF-Riot
-occurs-at-one-of-Turkish-women-s-prisons-1029-20131029

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2013


                              652 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 16, 2013 Monday
                                  Pune Edition

SC's electoral reform verdicts may help to clean up politics

BYLINE: Dhananjay Mahapatra TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 535 words


T he riots that wounded the country at its birth,continue to recur every now and
then.Numerous communal conflagrations saw as many judicial or administrative
commissions going into its genesis.Their findings and recommendations remain
unimplemented.The victims of the vicious 1984 anti-S ikh riots are still
awaiting justice - both from the government and the judiciary.Trial in the
post-Godhra communal pogrom of 2002 has not yet reached its final stages.Except
for one politician in Maya Kodnani,many are yet to feel the rigour of the rule
of law,despite the Supreme Court clearly observing,"The modern day 'Neros' were
looking elsewhere when Best Bakery and innocent children and women were burning
and were probably deliberating how the perpetrators of the crime can be saved or
protected.[Zahira Habubulla H Sheikh vs Gujarat 2004 (4) SCC 158 ]." And now
Muzaffarnagar became the theatre for the deadly dance of riots,even though UP is
ruled by a political family which champions the cause of minorities and never
wastes an opportunity to wear skull caps to assure them of protection.After
independence,the worst communal riots took place in Gujarat in 1969 when
Congress leader Hiten K Desai was chief minister.Report of the Justice Jagmohan
Reddy Commission indicted the partisan role of police saying Hindu temples near
police stations remained intact but not the mosques.Police siding with rioters
is a common thread in every inquiry report -- Justice D P Madon Commission on
the Bhiwandi,Jalgaon and Madad riots of 1970,Justice Josepth Vithyathil
Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971,Justice Ranganath Misra Commission
on the 1984 anti-S ikh riots in Delhi,Justice Srikrishna report on Mumbai riots
of 1992-1993 and the report of National Human Rights Commission on the 2002
Gujarat riots.For decades,the police have been consistently damned for their
partisan role during riots.During these decades,commission after commission
appointed by the Union government repeatedly recommended urgent need for reforms
in police establishment to make it a professional force rather than the alter
ego of politicians in power.No state has expressed readiness to usher in the
reforms,which the Supreme Court had directed more than six years
ago.Instead,they are now telling the court that it would be unconstitutional for
the court to direct them to implement police reforms.When police becomes the
tool in the hands of politicians,many of whom have criminal track records or are
accused of amassing huge disproportionate wealth,what does one do?

The Supreme Court in SC Advocates on Record Association case [1993 (4) SCC 411]
had said,"India needs today nothing more than a set of honest men who will have
the interest of the country before them.There is a fissiparous tendency arising
out of various elements in our life.We have communal differences,caste
differences,language differences,provincial differences and so forth.It requires
men of strong character,men of vision,men who will not sacrifice the interests
of the country at large for the sake of smaller groups and areas and who will
rise over the prejudices which are born of these differences." For full report
log on to www.timesofindia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              653 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Survivors of Tulsa Race Riots Seek Help From Congress for a Wrong Never Righted

BYLINE: Lois Romano

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 919 words


Legendary black historian John Hope Franklin captivated a congressional hearing
this week when he eloquently urged members to pass legislation that would clear
the way for survivors of the nation's worst race riots to sue for reparations.

The federal courts have ruled that the statute of limitations has expired for
the victims and heirs to sue the city of Tulsa and the state of Oklahoma over
losses during 1921 race riots that left more than 200 blacks dead and 400
businesses and countless homes in a prosperous black neighborhood torched. At
the time, the legal system did not allow the black community any legal remedies.

"There was a code of silence that settled" over Tulsa, said Franklin, in
explaining why legal action was not brought sooner. Those who survived, he said,
"suffered most of their lives through the trauma."

House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) said the issue
merits congressional attention because of evidence suggesting that governmental
officials deputized and armed the mob. Harvard legal scholar Charles J.
Ogletree, who has been representing the victims, noted that "no one has ever
been held responsible criminally or civilly for destroying a 42-block area."

Ogletree introduced 104-year-old Otis Clark, a survivor of the riots, and asked
the committee to provide justice to the remaining survivors before they die.
University of Alabama law professor Alfred L. Brophy called the riots a way of
keeping the blacks "in their place." Olivia J. Hooker, six years old during the
riots, said her mother told her "your country is shooting at you."

"This was devastating to me," she said at the hearing.

Democrats and Republicans on the Judiciary subcommittee for civil rights seemed
sympathetic to the arguments. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) arrived at the
hearing with her cab driver, who told her he was interested in the legislation.
He got an ovation.

Some members asked whether it would be enough to simply pledge that this would
never happen again.

Franklin, 92, who was born in Oklahoma and whose father was in Tulsa at the time
of the riots, argued that had the riots not occurred, many descendants might be
further "along the road of prosperity."

The prolific and revered educator told of a colossal slight at a private club
where he had been celebrating his 1995 White House Medal of Freedom, the
nation's highest civilian honor.

"A white woman came up to me and said, 'Here, you get my coat,' " he recalled.
"What was I doing there except to serve her?

" 'No more' is not good enough."

Just a Cold

Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) didn't make it
to this week's high-stakes conference meeting on the emergency funding
legislation for Iraq, saying  he was feeling under the weather. At 89 years old,
he is the longest-serving member in the Senate, and notices about his health are
closely watched. A spokesman said yesterday that Byrd was tired and recovering
from a spring cold and was back at work.  "He's feeling better every day," said
spokesman Tom Gavin.

'It's All About the Math'

It was not so long ago that gay activists were on the defensive, with 22 states
considering bans on same-sex marriage and Congress considering a constitutional
amendment declaring that marriage must be between a man and a woman.

But after working hard -- and spending millions -- in last year's elections,
activists are looking at 2007 as a victory year. Joe Solmonese says it is no
accident.

When he took over the leadership two years ago of the Human Rights Campaign --
the nation's largest gay rights group -- Solmonese saw a clear opportunity to go
on the offensive with the organization's largest-ever electoral effort. "It was
time to be tactical and not just stand on the sidewalk" protesting, he said in a
recent interview. "We are trying to change the role we play in electoral
politics. It's all about the math, and for the first time in a very long time
there are people in charge who are committed to moving legislation."

Significantly, a new federal hate-crimes bill is making its way through the
Democratic Congress that would for the first time include sexual orientation in
the federal criminal code. And this week, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act
(ENDA), which would ban job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation --
was introduced in the House. Both bills have strong Democratic support.

For the first time in the group's 27-year history, the HRC spent or raised
millions of dollars on state and congressional elections and mobilized many of
its 700,000 members to work in the field.

New Hampshire is expected to pass a bill today legalizing same-sex unions, and
yesterday, Iowa's House approved a bill to outlaw discrimination based on sexual
orientation and gender identity.

"What it all comes down to is that we're beginning to be perceived as
politically potent," Solmonese said.

The ultimate goal, he says, is to legalize same-sex marriage, but he
acknowledges that it won't happen by simply demanding it. "There is a more
strategic way to move the country in the direction of gay marriage," he said,
"and that is to recognize that the American people need to have an initial
conversation about the circumstances of having a partner, of being in a
relationship for a long time, and having kids . . . the circumstances of our
lives."

His goals for the 2008 elections may be a tad more modest than they were in
2006: "We helped a lot of good people get elected -- and we will play a role in
holding onto those seats.'

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Associated Press; Mount Zion Baptist Church, above, was one of
hundreds of buildings burned by a white mob during the 1921 Tulsa race riots.
Historian John Hope Franklin, left, says no one has been held accountable for
the devastation.
IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post
IMAGE; By Judy G. Rolfe; Human Rights Campaign President Joe Solmonese, right,
with Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.), seeks to mobilize the nation's largest
gay organization to move legislation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              654 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

CM sees plot behind UP riots

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Sept. 19 -- B laming Opposition parties for riots in Muzaffarnagar that
took 49 lives, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said that this violence was a
'political conspiracy' aimed to divide the society on religious lines.

Replying to a debate on the Muzaffarnagar riots in the UP Assembly, Yadav said
his Government would not spare anyone found guilty in perpetrating the crime.
"All political parties want peace in the State and the Government too wants it.
It was not a riot but a political conspiracy to divide the two religious
communities for their own vested interest," he said.

Narrating recent controversy over Mahakaleshwar Temple in Jhansi, the CM said
that Hindu and Muslims were staying inside the temple for past several decades
but suddenly the BJP raised the issue and its MP Yogi Adityanath launched an
agitation there to remove the Muslims. "Such act of the BJP is condemnable and
they are trying to divide the society on the name of Hindu and Muslims," he
said.

Yadav also alleged that uploading controversial videos and photographs on
YouTube and circulation of MMS and SMS were created tension in the society. He
also announced that the Government was investigating the role of the officials,
whose laxity led to the violence.

"All such officials would be taken to task," he said.

Even Parliamentary Affairs Minister Azam Khan said no Government wants violence
in its regime because strife destroys human relations. "Law will take its course
in dealing with the people who are responsible for riots but there cannot be any
law for wolves. We are human being and should follow the law of the land," Azam
Khan said.

The 30 minute speech of Azam Khan was full of rhetoric but lacked substance. He
dwelled on human values and the negative effects violence has on human relations
but refused to speak on the Government strategy to stop riots in future or what
action the Government has taken against the rioters. He got emotional on
speaking about the killings of people - both Muslim and Hindus - in
Muzaffarnagar, but was silent on the compensation the Government would extend to
the families who lost their loved ones in the riot.

"Who is killed in these riots? It is the poor. Not a single rich or powerful has
been killed in these riots. Muslims are in minority in western Uttar Pradesh and
the way majority treated them does not bring laurels to Hindus residing in that
part of the State," he said. Earlier, the Opposition led by BJP members tore
into the Government claims of "all is well" in Muzaffarnagar and said the riots
were State sponsored. They also demanded increase in compensation for the family
members of those killed in riot and action against the culprits.

The debate was initiated by Leader of Opposition Swami Prasad Maurya who
questioned as why Uttar Pradesh becomes a battle field when the Samajwadi Party
comes to power. He demanded resignation of the Chief Minister for his failure to
restore peace in Mzaffarnagar.

BJP Legislature leader Hukum Singh, against whom an FIR has been lodged for
inciting communal hatred, said that if the Government wanted the situation could
have been brought under control. "There were a series of meetings and
mahapanchayats and district administration did not take action. It waited for
the situation to go out of hands," he said.

Pramod Tiwari (Congress) said that there was an attempt to make UP a second
Gujarat and the State Government should not allow this to happen. Uma Bharti
(BJP) who attended the House for the first time said parties should detest from
doing politics on dead bodies. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party Government,
she said it is probably the first Government that has lost the faith of people
in such a short span of time.

"The guilty should be punished but no action should be taken against the
innocent," she said. Members from the ruling party also spoke on the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              655 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Rajnath demands CBI probe into Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Oct. 15 -- BJP chief Rajnath Singh on Monday blamed the Uttar Pradesh
government for the recent Muzaffarnagar riots and demands CBI probe. If the
government honestly wants a fair probe in the riots it should recommend a CBI
probe, Rajnath Singh said. Today he visited Malikpura, Kakara and Sauram areas
of Muzaffarngar and met the bereaved family of Gaurav and Sachin whose deaths
August 27 had triggered a wave of communal violence in Muzaffarnagar and adjoing
districts.

Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday released an Rs 7 crore
financial package for riot victims in Muzaffarnagar and nearby areas.

BJP chief Rajnath Singh said the riots could have been averted if the government
had taken timely action. Singh said UP was the only state in which a large
number of communal violence incidents have happened during the one and half
years rule of the Samajwadi Party. Singh demanded a CBI probe into the riots and
advises to the UP CM to concentrate on development of the state instead of
indulging in communal politics.

Rajnath alleged that the state government had failed to maintain law and order
and for the first time a number of police personnel are alleging a foul role of
a senior minister in the riots. I wanted to meet my party MLAs Sangeet Som and
Suresh Rana in jail, but as per orders of the state government, the district
administration did not permit me to meet them, BJP chief alleged. Villagers of
Malikpura allegedly complained to Rajnath about the role of local Samajwadi
Party leaders who forced the administration to release the arrested persons just
after the Kaval murder case.

Talking over the suspension of Home Secretary Sarvesh Chandra Misra and section
officer Pandey over the leakage of a government letter on the Ayodhya temple
issue, Rajnath said: it is a matter for probe that under what conditions a
government order was issued and why the responsible officer has been put under
the suspension.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                              656 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday

Women run riot

BYLINE: Shombit Sengupta

LENGTH: 888  words


Verbal interactions like talk, anger, laughter, lectures were all we had until
Alexander Graham Bell in 1876 put the final touch to telephone invention where
you don't see the caller. Suddenly in 1896, Guglielmo Marconi fine-tuned the
wireless public radio invention; several scientists had worked on it before him,
including JC Bose. This was the birth of another medium where you don't wait for
a response. You speak, and people listen. Of course, means of silent
communication had existed earlier like painting, literature and photography
invented by Joseph Nicephore Niepce in 1826. With silent movies, comics like
Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton endeared themselves while provocatively
passing on powerful messages. Television was the next gigantic invention.

After all this came the widespread public use of the internet since 1991. By
itself, it's a  passive agent but it can ignite instant global communication.
Micro-blogging site Twitter revealed that 9.66 million tweets were sent within
24 hours of the 2012 London Olympic Games opening ceremony. Realising this
strength, those who want to convey a global message know they have to use
communication techniques to provoke with both language and visuals.

Russia: That's exactly what Pussy Riot did. Who's Pussy Riot? A Russian Punk
collective of 10 women singers formed last September. Said Pussy Rioter Serafima
to Vice publication, "We realised that this country needs a militant,
punk-feminist, street band that will rip through Moscow's streets and squares,
mobilise public energy against the evil crooks of the Putinist junta and enrich
the Russian cultural and political opposition." On February 21, 2012 Pussy Riot
took to the altar of Moscow's Christ the Savior Cathedral and performed a mock
prayer-song, begging Virgin Mary to chase Putin out of power. Within 30 seconds,
they were removed by security guards and thrown into jail. The video footage of
this Church episode was put up on the internet and got them a great deal of
support. Amnesty International has taken up the Pussy Riot cause, as have famous
musicians like Sting, Peter Gabriel and Anthony Kiedis. As overheard on CNN's
Christian Amanpour TV show, if Pussy Riot was called Feminist Riot, they may not
have received this kind of impact. Pussy Rioter Kot said to Vice, "When cops and
FSB agents ask us, 'What the hell do these English letters on your banner stand
for?' we usually say something like 'pussycat rebellion.' But, of course that's
a brutal lie. In Russia you should never tell the truth to a cop or to any agent
of the Putinist regime."

France: If the 1968 Revolution in France had internet support, imagine the
impact that would have had. Philosopher Simone de Beauvoir, author of The Second
Sex, had become active in the women's liberation movement. In 1971, when
abortion was illegal in France, she signed the Manifesto of the 343, a list of
famous women who claimed, mostly falsely, to have had an abortion, thereby
exposing themselves to criminal prosecution. The women celebrities who signed
what was also known as "le manifeste des 343 salopes" or the "Manifesto of the
343 Sluts/Bitches" included film personalities Catherine Deneuve and Delphine
Seyrig. France legalised abortion in 1975.

India: An Indian protester is the world's longest hunger striker. That's
39-year-old Irom Sharmila Chanu, called Manipur's Iron Lady, a poet, civil
rights and political activist who's refused food and water since November 2,
2000. She's under arrest for suicide and is force-fed a mixture of liquefied
carbohydrates and proteins by a nasal tube three times a day. Her demand is that
India's government repeals the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), 1958
imposed in Manipur to combat a decades-long insurgency. There was public outrage
when on July 10, 2004, 32-year-old Manorama was picked up from her home by Assam
Rifles soldiers on alleged charges of links with separatist rebels. Her body was
found in Imphal with multiple bullet wounds. In a highly unusual protest, some
40 women stripped naked and demonstrated outside the Assam Rifles base. Special
permits are required for Indians and foreigners to visit Manipur, but alerted by
the internet, there's been worldwide condemnation of Indian Government for
continuing with AFSPA.

Ukraine: A Ukrainian feminist group called Femen also staged a topless protest
near London's Tower Bridge on August 2, 2012. They had 'No Sharia' scrawled on
their  chests. They demanded that IOC condemns violence towards women from
Islamist countries that apply sharia laws as these governments use the
participation of women in Olympic games to hide thousands of victims and dead.
Femen said on its Facebook page: "If the IOC keeps flirting with radical Islam,
new Olympic disciplines, such as stoning or speed raping will be added to the
competition."

Being static while using the inactive internet, people have found huge
provocation to pass on their messages. If there is juice, provocation and power,
the silent passive internet system will fire up action. This is a total
departure of human character, "If you don't listen to me, I will silently send
across my message for the world to judge and respond."

Shombit Sengupta is an international creative business strategy consultant to
top management. Reach him at www.shiningconsulting.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              657 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  May 17, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Former policeman has hilarious tales to tell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 138 words


After 18 years serving with Humberside police Alfie Moore has a lot of stories
to tell and after five years working the clubs he knows how to make the best of
them.

I Predicted a Riot arrives at the Rondo Theatre Bath on Wednesday, May 23 at
8pm.

In the show Alfie talks about the history of protest and riots including ones
that he has been personally involved with but with lots of digressions about his
experiences on the beat.

From the Nika riot in 532AD through to the May Day riots of 1517 right up to
date with the recent English summer knockabouts Alfie talks about what causes
these incidents and what it feels like to be on the other side of the riot
shield.

If you have always wanted to ask a policeman where he kept his truncheon now is
the time to do it.

Tickets, costing £12 and £10, can be booked on 01225 463362.

the riots

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FORMER POLICEMAN: Alfie Moore predicted the riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TBC


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              658 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Three-quarters charged over riots had previous criminal convictions

BYLINE: Alan Travisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 361 words

ABSTRACT

Riots data reveals a quarter of those in court had been in prison before, but
also shows sentences are tougher than usual

FULL TEXT

The sentences handed down to convicted rioters by the courts have been more
draconian than previously thought but nearly three-quarters of those appearing
in court had criminal records.

However, the average jail terms handed down were two to three times longer than
normal, according to .

The official statistics, released on Thursday, back up claims by the justice
secretary, Kenneth Clarke, that a "hardcore of the criminal classes" were
involved in the riots, with 73% of those put before the courts having previous
criminal convictions - and one third of that number having served a prison
sentence before.

Those with criminal records have an average of 15 offences each. Overall, 26%
had served time in prison previously.

However, MoJ statisticians stressed that the latest sentencing data, up to
Monday of this week, also shows that some people - particularly teenagers - were
being drawn into the criminal justice system for the first time.

The data shows that the 176 people so far jailed over the riots have been
sentenced to an average of 11.1 months. The detailed figures show that those
convicted of burglary during the riots - generally looting - have been jailed
for 14.1 months, compared with the normal rate of 8.8 months, a sentence some
60% longer than normal.

Those convicted of violent disorder are being jailed for 10.4 months compared
with 5.3 months normally, and those convicted of theft are getting sentences
three times as long: 7.1 months compared with a normal rate of 2.4 months.

The figures also show a much more hardline approach to using prison sentences,
with 43% of those sentenced so far by magistrates being sent to jail compared
with a normal custody rate of 12%.

Clarke said the figures confirmed that "existing criminals were on the rampage".

He added: "I am dismayed to see that a hardcore of repeat offenders back in the
system. This reinforces my determination to introduce radical changes to ensure
both effective punishment and reform to tackle reoffending."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              659 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                This Day (Lagos)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

London Riots Stop Friendly

BYLINE: Tunde Sulaiman

LENGTH: 272  words


There are strong indications that this evening's international friendly between
the Super Eagles and the Black Stars will no longer hold in view of the London
riots.

Although organisers of the friendly are still having discussions with police
officials, the reality is that council officials will not allow the match go on
in view of the widespread rioting going on across the British capital and other
cities across the country.

This is sequel to the riots, which broke out in the British capital, London over
the weekend and are still continuing.

The riots started after police shot a man dead in Tottenham. A peaceful protest
in Tottenham on Saturday over the death of Mark Duggan, 29, was followed by
violence which spread into this week and across more cities.

Government's response has been to draft more police officers to the riot zones,
which has meant police from outlying areas are supplementing the London
Metropolitan Police.

Already a number of people have criticised this action saying it would spread
the police force thin should riots break out outside the capital.

THISDAYLIVE learnt that match organisers are frantically co-ordinating with
Watford police to see if they will have enough men to provide security for the
game taking place at Watford's Vicarage Road ground.

However, although Siasia insisted that he would love the match to go ahead, the
reality is that it is highly unlikely.

"The match has to gone o," said Siasia at the lobby of the Eagles' Hilton
Watford Hotel.

Siasia's concern is obvious; the friendly was to have served as the final build
up towards next month's crucial Nations Cup clash with Madagascar.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday

Race Riot exhibit now at Lanphier

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 164 words


A traveling exhibit developed by area high school students that depicts the 1908
Springfield Race Riot will be displayed Monday through Friday at Lanphier High
School, 1300 N. 11th St.

"Summer of Hate: A Modern Perspective on the Springfield Race Riot of 1908" was
prepared by participants in the 2007 Summer Scholars Program at the Abraham
Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. The 14-panel exhibit includes
photographs, maps and historical accounts of the violence in Abraham Lincoln's
hometown that led to the founding of the NAACP.

High school students from Springfield (including Lanphier), Quincy,
Jacksonville, New Berlin and Loami researched the riot using historical material
in the ALPL. They toured Springfield to pinpoint riot locations, gathered modern
and historical images, created maps, and then worked with library and museum
staff to produce the exhibit.

Those interested in scheduling the exhibit should call Erin Bishop, ALPLM
director of education, at 782-8403.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              661 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday

Muzaffarnagar riot report names SP, BJP leaders

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Sept. 24 -- The Justice (retd) Vishnu Sahai commission set up by the
Uttar Pradesh government to probe Muzaffarnagar riots has named several local
Samajwadi Party and BJP leaders in the report.

It has also indicted some police officers, including the SHO of a local police
station for failure to prevent the riots.

Justice Vishnu Sahay, heading the commission submitted the report to the
Governor yesterday.

The report will be sent to the state government for necessary action. The
commission recorded the statements of more than 476 persons, including 100
officials in connection with the riots that broke out after an incident on
August 27, 2013.

It was also asked to look into administrative lapses, if any, in controlling the
violence in Muzaffarnagar and surrounding districts which left over 60 people
dead and thousands displaced.

Two years after Muzaffarnagar riots rocked Uttar Pradesh, the Judicial
Commission has named several local Samajwadi Party and Bharatiya Janata Party
leaders in the report, said sources on Thursday.

According to sources, the report has also indicted some police officers,
including the SHO of a local police station for failure to prevent the riots.

The 775-page report has been submitted to the Governor and will be submitted to
Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday. The single member Justice (retired)
Vishnu Sahai Commission recorded the statement of over 470 people including 100
officials.

It has once again started a blame game with the BJP accusing the SP government
of trying to frame its leaders in the Muzaffarnagar riots. Commenting on the
report, SP leader Gaurav Bhatia said, "BJP is promoting leaders who were part of
the riots. It was BJP which was responsible for the riots."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                              662 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Why relief only for 1984 riot victims and not for 2002 ones, asks Abu Azmi

BYLINE: Kanchan Srivastava

LENGTH: 420  words


Launching a scathing attack on the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the
centre, state unit chief of Samajwadi Party, Abu Azmi, on Monday, said the
saffron government was discriminating against Muslims in the country by
announcing compensation only to kin of Sikhs who had been killed in New Delhi in
1984 in the wake of then prime minister Indira Gandhi's murder. Azmi demanded
that additional compensation be paid to the victims of the 2002 Gujarat riots
also.

The central government had last October announced compensation of Rs5 lakh each
to the kin of 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims, and has written to all states to
disburse the fund as early as possible. This compensation is in addition to what
the victims have so far received from the government and other agencies.

Azmi, who is a legislator from Govandi-Mankhurd constituency, said: "If Modi
thinks that victims of 1984 riots need to be compensated additionally, then
victims of 2002 Gujarat riots and 1992-93 Mumbai riots also deserve similar
treatment."

Azmi said he would write to the prime minister seeking similar relief for
victims of these two riots. He is set to mobilise the community to press his
demand by organising a public meeting in Nagpada which has considerable Muslim
population.

"Most of the victims in these two riots were Muslims and therefore they are
being deliberately ignored by the BJP government. By such grave discrimination,
Modi is polarising the country on religious grounds," said Azmi, who added that
the kin of many of the victims of both these riots were yet to be compensated
due to red-tape. He did not however provide any details.

Raising doubts about the intentions of the Modi government, Azmi said: "Modi is
playing politics of compensation. Delhi elections are here and by paying
additional compensation, he is seeking to secure Sikh votes."

Azmi blamed the prime minister for insulting the community. "Modi has always
rated Muslims as second grade citizens. He never wears a skull-cap."

He also accused the state government of similar biases against the minority
community. "Modi's discrimination policy is being followed diligently by the
Fadnavis government which decided against granting reservation to Muslims in
educational institutions even after the Bombay high court had okayed it."

In numbers

1984 anti-Sikh riots: 3,325 deaths; 2,733 were killed in Delhi alone; rest of
the victims were from UP, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, etc.

1992-93 Mumbai riots:

900 deaths.

2002 Gujarat riots:

1,169 deaths and 2,548 injured.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Riot victims slam CM, 'rented' Muslim leaders

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 475  words

DATELINE: AHMEDABAD/VADODARA


The 2002 riots victims, mostly Muslims, hit out at Chief Minister Narendra Modi
as well as the Muslim faces spotted at his Sadbhavna Mission fast venue on Day
II. The victims said both mock their pain and quest for justice, which remained
unfulfilled yet.

Nazir Master, a victim of Naroda Patiya massacre, said, "Modi has ambition to be
the Prime Minister and therefore he is seeking acceptance from Muslims. But, by
doing so, he is overlooking the plight of the riots victims. And the Muslims who
are thronging his fast venue are unaware of the victims' plight. They are
getting swayed by Modi."

Referring to the Muslim faces joining Modi at the fast venue, Salim Shaikh from
Naroda Patiya said, "They are 'bikau' persons who have not undergone the pain of
the 2002 riots. We have seen our dear ones being killed and raped and are still
waiting for justice."

Imtiyaz Qureshi, who is a victim and witness to the Naroda Gam massacre, said,
"Sadbhavna is goodwill to all. The Muslims going to Modi are those who have not
bear the brunt of the 2002 riots. So, there is no big deal that they are going
with Modi. Let Modi take an initiative to take us (riots victims) also with him
by making sure that we get justice and the real culprits are brought to book."

Riot victims from Vadodara called the Muslims attending Modi's function as
"rented", adding that they would not be forgiven by the God for their wrong
doings.

A statement issued by Rukhsar Salim Memon and Shabnam Arif Memon, who lost their
family members in the riots, said their wounds would have been healed had Modi
visited a single Muslim family after 2002. "We would have surely forgiven him
had he done that but it is not possible though he is doing it in a public
platform," the girls said in the statement.

They added, "Our lives were changed after the communal riots, and by supporting
Modi's fasting, we would not like to hurt the souls of those who died in the
riots. The 'shameless, rented' Muslims will not be forgiven by the Allah."

Firozabanu Memon, who takes care of her daughter Rukhsar and nephew Shabnam by
selling vegetable in Tandalja area of Vadodara, said, "This is nothing but
emotional drama and we would never support this type of gimmick. We have lost
much in the riots and it cannot be replaced by such political stunts. I only
know what hardships I have faced while educating these two girls."

Meanwhile, Ahmedabad police did not allow the victims of Naroda Patiya massacre
and some voluntary organisations to sit on dharna in the locality against
Narendra Modi on Sunday. The programme was coordinated by Jan Sangharsh Manch
(JSM), a voluntary organisation fighting legal fight for the riots victims. As
soon as they started distributing an open letter to Modi in the form of
pamphlets in the afternoon, the police detained them and sent them to Shahibaug
Police Headquarters.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              668 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Riot investigation cost Vancouver cops $2M; Officials say 85% of people arrested
don't live in the city

BYLINE: Susan Lazaruk, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 340 words


Investigating the 2011 hockey riot has cost Vancouver police $2 million in
overtime and other additional costs.

And the police department, which has dedicated between 50 and 70 officers and
staff from other departments to its riot squad since last June 15, said it spent
another $5 million, mostly on base salaries, on what it called the largest
investigation of its kind in Canadian history.

But those were costs the Vancouver police would have spent anyway, said the head
of the riot squad, Insp. Les Yeo, in the first public accounting of the costs of
policing the riot.

Other area police forces spent $2 million on staff salaries for those who worked
on the investigation, again from their regular budgets, he said.

"The amount we (police) spent that we wouldn't have spent if there was no riot
was $2 million," said Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu after the monthly police
board meeting on Wednesday.

Vancouver police have recovered about $1 million from the provincial government,
he said.

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson, who's on the police board, said he hoped to
recover the remaining $1 million from the province.

Both he and the police noted that 85% of the arrests for rioting and other
criminal acts that night were of people who didn't live in the city of
Vancouver.

"We would like to see more costs coming our way," Robertson said at the meeting.

Yeo estimated the damage amounted to $3 million from the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals to the Boston Bruins.

There was damage to 89 businesses and 113 vehicles, a third of which were police
vehicles, said Yeo.

The investigation involved going through 5,500 hours of video and investigators
tagged 15,000 different criminal acts, involving 65,000 different people.

To date, 508 charges have been recommended, 175 of them against rioters, and the
Crown has approved 225 charges, including 85 against rioters. He said officers
are in the process of recommending 100 more charges.

Three people have pleaded guilty and "there are more to come," said Yeo.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News; Vancouver police spent $2 million in quelling and
investigating last year's Stanley Cup riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              669 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Hackney Gazette

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Unarmed killer training fuels new riot upset

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 360 words


'A close combat expert from the USA is bringing his lethal bare-knuckle
self-defence classes to Hackney this month in a "riot tour," in which he aims to
instruct local vigilantes to stamp out gang culture.



Ex-marine Tim Larkin, 44, pinpoints gang culture as the cause of the August
riots, and he's heading to what he dubs "Broken Britain" to teach people in
cities affected by the riots how to "reclaim their inner city streets".

"I watched on TV those hordes of thugs and gangsters terrifying local residents
and shopkeepers under the guise of a political protest," said Mr Larkin, who
maintains that the only way to counter violence is with stronger violence.

"I want to speak to the victims and spread the message that this need never
happen again in the UK, if people stop taking the soft option and start to fight
back with no holds barred."

But religious leaders questioned how Mr Larkin could ensure the methods do not
fall into the wrong hands, and feel he is not welcome in the borough.

The Rev Joyce Daley, senior pastor at the Faithful Ministries and borough dean
for the Independent Black Majority Churches, accused Mr Larkin of "jumping on
the "riot bandwagon".

She pointed out that a very small percentage of those arrested and prosecuted
after the riots were young people, and even less were gang affiliated.

"I was out the entire night of the riots speaking to many people involved," she
said.

"They expressed that it was an opportunity to 'have a go' at government and the
police, thank God it was not directed at individuals and specific communities."

Father Rob, vicar of St John at Hackney Church in whose parish the riots broke
out, said tackling violence with violence would only exacerbate the wider issues
we face.

"Of course people need to remain safe, but we create such a safe environment by
listening to, learning from, supporting, forgiving and loving each other," he
said.

Mr Larkin brought his controversial form of self-defence, which teaches people
in two days how to kill without weapons, to Hackney two years ago.

n What do you think? Is Mr Larkin's method the right way to tackle gang culture?
Email HackneyGazetteLetters@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HAG


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              670 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Limbaugh rebuke urged Salazar to KOA: Admonish radio host for DNC riot remarks

BYLINE: Howard Pankratz The Denver Post

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-02

LENGTH: 326 words


U.S. Sen. Ken Salazar asked Friday that the owner of KOA radio "reprimand" Rush
Limbaugh for what Salazar calls Limbaugh's "clear exhortation" for riots during
August's Democratic National Convention in Denver.

Limbaugh said earlier this week that he is not calling for a riot in Denver but
only "dreams" of it, to the tune of "White Christmas."

"Now, I'm not inspiring or inciting riots. I'm dreaming. I'm dreaming of riots
in Denver," he said, mimicking the holiday tune.

But Salazar, in a letter sent Friday to Clear Channel Radio, owner of KOA,
characterized Limbaugh's comments as "incendiary."

"As I read Mr. Limbaugh's comments about riots at the Democratic National
Convention in Denver, they appear to me to be a clear exhortation that those
riots are exactly what he wants to happen," said Salazar. "For that kind of
incendiary comment, I ask Clear Channel to reprimand Mr. Limbaugh."

Kris Olinger, director of AM programming for Clear Channel Denver, said Limbaugh
is syndicated by Premiere Radio Network, the syndication arm of Clear Channel.
"We passed the letter along to Premiere," said Olinger.

Olinger said she was not surprised to receive a letter from a U.S. senator over
Limbaugh's comments. "We certainly expected strong reaction from the
leadership," Olinger said.

She added that she didn't believe Salazar has heard or read the full transcript
of Limbaugh's comments. She said the conservative talk-show host talked about it
again Friday on his show.

Limbaugh reiterated that he is not calling for riots, she said. Rather, he said
that if the extreme left of the Democratic Party riots in Denver during the
convention, it would be bad for the Democrats and good for Republicans, Olinger
said.

In the letter to Lee Larsen, senior vice president for Clear Channel Radio Rocky
Mountain Region, Salazar said it is wrong to have political partisans of ``any
stripe suggesting that violence is somehow an acceptable outcome'' of political
conventions.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              671 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 24, 2016 Sunday
                               Bangalore Edition

Jat stir is most thoroughly recorded riot in country

BYLINE: Sukhbir Siwach & Manveer Saini

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 338 words


The violence during the agitation by Jats in Haryana in February has been
extensively videographed both by rioters and onlookers. Probably this is the
only riot in the country which has been captured on film in such great
details.Along with the CCTV footage from the riot-hit towns, these private video
clips will be scanned by police to nail the street fighters. In addition, senior
Haryana police officers hope that the conviction of rioters with the help of
public-created visual evidence will act as deterrence to future street violence.

"Earlier, the prosecution depended on eyewitnesses, spot evidence and
circumstantial evidence. This often made convictions in courts difficult," said
Haryana DGP K P Singh. "But now technology has enabled much stronger
evidence.Convictions will rise."

Besides identifying rioters, the hundreds of hours of footage, perhaps the most
ever filmed during riots in India, may also expose the police's inaction during
the violent agitation. Sources said there were several videos in which cops are
seen either as mute

spectators or fleeing the site.The committee headed by former UP DGP Prakash
Singh, which is enquiring into the role of bureaucrats and police during the
riots, has received around 300 video clips. "People have become techno-savvy and
so many of them have shot videos of incidents," said the panel head.

In Rohtak, the epicentre of the riots, police have received as many as 1,032
video clips and photographs, apart footage recorded by 38 CCTV cameras. The
authorities in riot-hit districts such as

Jhajjar, Sonipat, Jind, Kaithal and Hisar have also received numerous film clips
and photographs. Of the 140 people arrested in Rohtak, the epicentre of the
violence, such videos have helped identify 80 rioters, said Rohtak SP Shashank
Anand.

The videos are an added weapon for police, whose work has been strengthened by a
recent judgment of the Gujarat high court, which held that in cases of rioting
all the members of a mob are responsible for offences committed by any one of
them.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              673 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Malta Today

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

Police end Melbourne prison riot

LENGTH: 213  words


The riot, in which hundreds of prisoners lit fires, broke walls and smashed
windows, started not long before a smoking ban was to be introduced in all
Victorian correctional facilities.

Police have regained control of a prison on the outskirts of Melbourne following
a major riot.

Staff and visitors were evacuated from a remand centre in Ravenhall after
clashes involving hundreds of inmates began at midday on Tuesday.

Heavily armed police stormed the prison in the early hours of the morning,
according to the Victorian government.

The Corrections Department said the riot may have started because of a smoking
ban in state prisons.

Several prisoners were hurt in the riot and were treated by medical staff, and
two staff members suffered minor injuries, said prison authorities.

The riot, in which hundreds of prisoners lit fires, broke walls and smashed
windows, started not long before a smoking ban was to be introduced in all
Victorian correctional facilities.

About 84% of Victorian prisoners are smokers, according to government figures.

The government said it was introducing the ban to improve the health of prison
staff and inmates.

Corrections Victoria said the operation to end the riot was difficult and
conducted under the cover of darkness to protect prison staff.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1592


                       Copyright 2015 MediaToday Co. Ltd
               Provided by Syndigate.info,an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              674 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 11, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fear of Big Brother rather than Jail is cutting crime

BYLINE: Peter Franklin

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 400 words


The English riots of August 2011 made headlines around the world. At the time,
it felt like an unfolding apocalypse. But then, three years to this day, it
stopped - and nothing remotely as serious has happened since.

In the aftermath, we searched our souls. How could this have happened?
Simplistic answers were not in short supply: family breakdown, gang culture,
austerity, racism. But while none of these problems have gone away, the riots
have. Three years on, we not only need an explanation for the disorder, but also
its non-repetition.

For some people, there's no mystery as to the latter; indeed, they take it as
proof that tougher sentencing works. In dealing with the rioters, the courts did
not mess about. Compared with defendants found guilty of similar offences in
normal circumstances, those convicted for riot-related crimes were three times
more likely to be sent to prison, and for substantially longer periods.
Individual sentences included eight months for a teenage girl who made off with
a bottle of Lucozade and a packet of sweets.

The deterrent effects were longlasting - and not just on those sent down. An
important study, published this year in the Economic Journal, shows that while "
riot crimes" (such as criminal damage and assault) fell following the riots, the
incidence of "non-riot crimes" went up.

But, wait - was it the severity of justice that made all the difference or its
swiftness and certainty? The response to the riots was a shockand-awe
demonstration of the power of the unseen camera. Rioters who had imagined
themselves part of a faceless mob found their faces displayed on front pages.
Police and public pulled together to identify culprits, contributing to the
speed and number of arrests.

New York has long been held up as an example of what intelligence-led,
rapid-response policing can achieve. Furthermore, it is a success story that has
continued despite a falling jail population. We need this model to work over
here too. The financial and human cost of an overloaded prison system is a
burden we can no longer afford.

Locking criminals up or letting them go is a poor choice, because society pays
one way or the other. A much better way is to deter crime. For the would-be
criminal, prison seems a distant consideration; a CCTV camera pointing in his
direction is a very different proposition.

CCTV punished the London rioters and has kept us safe since

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              675 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                         May 6, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Atalji never criticised Modi for Gujarat riots: Uma Bharti

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 285  words


New Delhi: Claiming that former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had never criticised
Gujarat CM Narendra Modi for his alleged complicity in post-Godhra riots,
Bharatiya Janata Party vice-president Uma Bharti claimed it was rather a
spontaneous reaction to tense atmosphere which prevailed in Gujarat.

"Atalji is a spontaneous speaker. I was with him in Gujarat in the tense weeks
following the riots. Vajpayee's call for morality was no criticism of Modi. It
was no advice, no call to Modi to redeem himself. He just blurted it out,"
Bharti opined on a news channel on Sunday.

Debunking the theory Modi's alleged involvement in Gujarat riots, Uma Bharti
argued that large number of Hindus had also lost their lives in police shooting
which proved that the Gujarat CM had no involvement in the communal violence.

"There was no Muslim exodus from Gujarat after the riots. People are at peace
with themselves and enjoying the fruits of development. Let's not do a body
count of riot victims on basis of religion. Hundreds of Hindus died in police
firing during Godhra riots. This negates allegations about Modi's complicity in
the violence," Bharti said.

She also bemoaned the fact that secular leaders had failed to protect the
minorities and claimed that only staunch Hindutva leaders could guarantee Muslim
security.

"Only right-wing Hindutva leaders can be the saviour of Muslims and guarantee
their security. Only we can instill confidence and erode fear from the Muslim
psyche. The so-called secular brigade has failed to secure the community. It's
important to win their trust, if not their votes," added Bharti, who was
recently brought from political wilderness by Rajnath Singh and appointed as
party vice-president.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              676 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Linking murder in Russian region to Pussy Riot is act of provocation - lawyer

LENGTH: 226 words


Commenting on an incident in Kazan, Tatarstan, where the bodies of two women
were found in a flat with an inscription "Free Pussy Riot" made at the scene on
29 August, Nikolay Polozov, a lawyer of the Pussy Riot group, has said that it
was an act of provocation, Interfax news agency reported on 30 August.

"What has happened in Kazan is a foul and dirty act of provocation. I am sorry
that some degenerates use the name Pussy Riot for such purposes," lawyer Nikolay
Polozov told Interfax on 30 August.

Most supporters of the group are the people who stick to legal forms of protest,
he added. Violence in the Pussy Riot case was observed on the part of their
opponents who ripped T-shirts bearing the insignia of the group off people,
Polozov said.

"No doubt, this is an act of provocation, now everything is blamed on Pussy Riot
; something has happened in the country - the Pussy Riot group is to blame," he
added.

Polozov said he sincerely hoped that law enforcers "will be able to find these
freaks and punish them".

The philosophy of Pussy Riot has never meant violence, it was a peaceful,
nonviolent protest, Polozov said as reported by Gazprom-owned, editorially
independent Russian news agency Ekho Moskvy on the same day.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0803 gmt 30 Aug 12; Ekho
Moskvy news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0813 gmt 30 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              677 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             April 12, 2005 Tuesday
                        All but Ottawa & Toronto Edition

Second inmate dies after massive cuban prison riots

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: WORLD; World Report; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 225  words

DATELINE: HAVANA


HAVANA - An inmate died yesterday from severe burns suffered a week ago during a
riot at Cuba's largest prison, veteran Cuban human rights activist Elizardo
Sanchez said. It was the second death reported from two riots at Havana's
Combinado del Este prison on March 19 and April 5 by inmates resisting transfer
to distant inland jails, he said.

Freddy Ibanez, 35, who died in a Havana hospital, was badly burnt when rioting
prisoners doused fellow inmates with gasoline as they set fire to mattresses on
Tuesday. Mr. Sanchez, president of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and
National Reconciliation, called on the country's Communist authorities to
publish information on the two prison riots, which have gone unreported in the
Cuban press. "It is very probable that several more inmates have died in these
incidents," he said in a statement. Riot police used rubber bullets and tear gas
to end the rioting in a wing of the prison where more than 4,000 inmates are
being held, Mr. Sanchez said. But many of those injured in the last riot, from
burns and knife wounds, had been attacked by rioting prisoners for not joining
the revolt, he said, citing relatives of the inmates. "There is much discontent
in the prisons, above all in the high security ones, due to the subhuman
conditions and bad food," Mr. Sanchez said. "There could be more riots."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2005 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              678 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                            June 26, 2004, Saturday

Group wraps up initial report on city s 1898 riots

BYLINE: Millard K. Ives, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 1B, 6B

LENGTH: 490 words


The 1898 Wilmington race riots or "coup d'etat" was caused by white businessmen
who claimed the city government was corrupt and crime was skyrocketing,
according to a preliminary report released Friday by a group tasked with
providing the legislature an official record on the event.

The riots resulted in a mass black exodus in which many people were treated for
gunshot wounds in the back, an 1898 Wilmington Race Riot Commission researcher
said.

LeRae Umfleet, a state Office of Archives and History researcher, said violence
wasn't in the initial plan to overthrow the government, but organizers felt they
needed to pull in a white supremacist campaign. A mob mentality set in on the
day of the takeover.

"When you're part of a mob, you don't think as an individual," Ms. Umfleet said.
"You get hot-headed."

On Nov. 10, 1898, up to 2,000 white men seized control of Wilmington. They
killed several blacks and ran dozens of black leaders and their white Republican
allies out of town.

The commission is still trying to determine how much property blacks lost and
how many were killed or were run off during the race riots.

The draft was discussed Friday morning by commission members at the New Hanover
County Library. It was an outline from three public forums conducted in 2003 to
gather documents and testimonies from descendants of those involved in the 1898
upheaval.

The commission is still looking for documented facts of the riots.

A final report is expected next year. Once the report is finished, the
commission will present it to the legislature and recommend actions that should
be taken, said Irv Joyner, commission chairman.

"It can range anywhere from an apology to compensation," Mr. Joyner said.

According to the draft, at the turn of 1898, several blacks held public office
and were in prominent positions in the city economy, owning businesses, property
and homes.

White businessmen thought they were losing out and became upset at the
government, Ms. Umfleet said.

In early November 1898, a "White Declaration of Independence" was drafted by a
secret committee, and passed and presented to the public.

On Nov. 10, a white mob burned down the press of the Wilmington Record, a black
newspaper. Whites were upset over an incendiary editorial about interracial
romance.

Still energized by the campaign and the burning of the press, whites in the
Brooklyn neighborhood of Wilmington, a predominantly black community, began
shooting blacks, the report states. Federal troops failed to respond to the
situation. State militia and state forces came to Wilmington to restore order,
but failed to protect unarmed blacks.

What followed was a mass exodus by blacks to swamps and other towns. Commission
member Kenneth Davis added that regardless if the government was corrupt, the
coup d'etat was illegal and unconstitutional.

Millard K. Ives: 343-2075

millard.ivesstarnewsonline.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 Star News


                              679 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Patterns of Anti-Muslim Violence

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Sept. 24 -- The anti-Muslim riots in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining areas
are already being compared to Gujarat 2002. As many as 50,000 people have been
officially reckoned to have become internal refugees. According to official
records, 85 people have died, but unofficial estimates put it at a much higher
figure.

Police and administrative laxity, and sometimes police's criminal collusion with
rioters, have brought on this sorry state of affairs. Above everything else the
murky dealings of Samajwadi Party leadership with the Sangh had a paralysing
influence on the state machinery and encouraged goondas to indulge in rape,
loot, arson and murder. Many Muslims have "disappeared", many of their young
women have been kidnapped and whisked away to places where they cannot easily be
found.

Like Gujarat, it was a well-planned operation. Police in several areas have been
seen to be hand in glove with rioters. These riots need a more comprehensive
case study. The following is an account of some of the facets of these riots.

By now the riot methodology has been perfected. Disinformation, rumour mongering
- the usual ammunition in every fascist armoury - are important components of
this machinery. They have always been used with lethal effect in anti-Muslim
riots all over India.

The post-Godhra riots began with a major news item in the two most important
Gujarati dailies. The prominently-displayed news said Muslims in Godhra had
raped two Hindu women and cut their breasts. This inflamed Hindu feelings beyond
control. Later it was found that no such event had taken place.

However, by the time the truth came out, it was too late and hundreds of Muslim
women had been raped and killed.

Several riots in UP in the past have been fuelled and aggravated by such false
reports in Hindi newspapers. One such riot spread quickly after a Hindi
newspaper wrote a story on the front page. The banner headline screamed: "Chaar
sau bachche ghar nahin lautey" (Four hundred [school] children did not return
home). The falsehood was known only after the damage was done.

Yet another vicious riot in Aligarh was aggravated by a false report in a Hindi
newspaper that said Hindus in AMU's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College hospital
had been poisoned by Muslim doctors.

In Muzaffarnagar, newspaper stories of a Hindu girl's "molestation and rape"
worked as petrol on fire. Subsequent investigations and reports by major
publications found that the reports were not true. By then many people were
killed and maimed, homes and shops burnt down, people in their thousands driven
out to seek shelter in refugee camps.

The role of a section of media turned out to be as vicious this time as in the
past.

The Muzaffanagar police complained that media had been reporting events that did
not take place. That had a devastating effect. So far, media has gone completely
untouched for its role in aggravating mass violence. This is a long record of
impunity. Nobody ever dragged them to court for their crimes against humanity.
Enough is enough. Victims must give a serious thought to legal action against
these offenders.

The Press Council of India is aware of these transgressions, but being a
toothless body all that they can do is after a proper investigation name and
shame the offenders. However, it does not work as the offenders are shameless.

The larger pattern of anti-Muslim riots is intact, but smaller changes have been
introduced into it to make such riots more deadly.

Throughout the 1950s, 60s and 70s the anti-Muslim riots began with somebody
pelting stones at Hindu processions. Once the stones were pelted systematic
attacks on Muslims began and riot apologist would invariably argue that the riot
was "started by Muslims", taking it for granted that those throwing stones were
Muslims.

On the other hand, Muslims knew well that it was the handiwork of agent
provocateurs hired by the riot organisers. The simple logic for Muslim innocence
was that they did not stand to gain from the riots.

"Muslim casts the first stone" theme has given way to "riots begin with Muslims
molesting and raping Hindu women". That was the alibi in Pratapgarh riots
earlier this year and Muzaffarnagar riots earlier this month. In both cases, the
media propagated this false news with devastating consequences for Muslims. In
both cases it later turned out that no molestation or rape had taken place.

Other measures of disinformation and provoking the majority community included
wide distribution of a video in which a mob was lynching someone. The mischief
makers said the video showed Muslims lynching Hindu youth in Muzaffarnagar,
while the fact was that it was an old video of violence in Afghanistan.

In some areas, young men were seen distributing pamphlets in "Muslim dress",
while in fact they were not Muslims. This was another way of provoking violence
and blaming it on Muslims.

For years we had witnessed riots erupting after the discovery of cows' heads and
other parts in temples. Miscreants had regularly used this tactic to provoke
riots. Over the years it has lost much of its effectiveness. That is why the new
narrative involves "Hindu naari ki izzat par hamla" (attack on the modesty of
Hindu woman). As it has worked well so far. We should expect more of it in days
ahead.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              680 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                              May 22, 2009 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Riot to star in cultural show

BYLINE: JACQUI JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 161 words


IT is an infamous episode in Newcastle's modern history and as the Star Hotel
riot's 30th anniversary approaches, the city is preparing to explore the culture
and politics that culminated in one tumultuous night.

The Lock-Up cultural centre in Hunter Street is compiling an exhibition titled
Riot City which will open in September.

Curators are seeking photographs, memorabilia and personal accounts from people
with memories of the Star Hotel and the riot that erupted on its final night of
trade.

On September 19, 1979, about 4000 patrons turned on police after they moved in
to shut the premises.

Lock-Up director Gerry Bobsien said the cultural centre was an apt place for an
anniversary exhibition. In 1979 it was the Newcastle Police Station and rioters
were locked in the cells there.

As well as the riot, the show will examine Novocastrians' fondness for the Star
Hotel.

Anyone with potential submissions can contact The Lock-Up on 4925 2265 or
geraldine@thelockup.info

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOUR PHOTOS: INFAMOUS NIGHT: Police bundle troublemakers into a paddy
wagon. OUT OF CONTROL: An upturned car, above, and rioters pelt police outside
the Star Hotel, right. The hotel is seen, below, shortly after its closure in
1979.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              681 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Warilla man denies two charges from race riot

BYLINE: LAUREL-LEE RODERICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 137 words


THE first Cronulla riot suspect to surrender to police in response to
photographs published by the media has pleaded not guilty to riot and affray.

Warilla surfer Craig Patrick Sala, 20, appeared in Wollongong Local Court
yesterday for the first time since handing himself into Wollongong Police
Station on March 9.

He has been charged with participating in a riot on December 11 at Cronulla,
assembling with others about 3.20pm to assault another male.

He is also charged with affray for allegedly participating in violent conduct
towards a man of Middle Eastern appearance.

Sala, of Helen St, was the first person charged after police released images of
riot suspects to the media to shame them into surrendering.

Sala's solicitor Jeff David entered not guilty pleas on both charges yesterday.

The case was adjourned to May 30.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              682 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               December 27, 2014

With eye on Delhi elections, Rajnath Singh woos Sikhs;
Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as 'genocide', Home Minister distributes
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh to the victims

LENGTH: 501  words


Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as 'genocide', Home Minister distributes
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh to the victims

New Delhi: Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a 'genocide', Union Home
Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said several persons who had a 'role' in the
carnage are yet to be punished. "In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are
several persons who are yet to be punished. I have faith in our judicial system
and these persons will definitely get punishment," Rajnath said.



"I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," Singh said.

Singh also distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to 17 kin of the riot victims
in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi. According to a senior government official,
enhanced compensation to 2,459 people will soon be given after a verification.

Singh also said that he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to
look into the grievances of victims of 1984 riots. "I want to assure that after
getting complaints through this committee, government will solve them," he said.


The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots. Singh said that he wanted to give its
credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party reacted saying the compensation cheques distributed
to the families of anti-Sikh riot victims by Union Minister Rajnath Singh in
presence of Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay were like 'giving lollipop' before
the election.

Party's Delhi convenor Ashutosh said instead of giving the cheques to just 17
families, Singh should have come out with a plan of disbursing the compensation
money to remaining victims.

"Distributing compensation money ahead of elections while the BJP state
president is on dias is nothing but a facade. The BJP is offering lollipops
ahead of elections," Ashutosh said.

The Centre had recently announced to provide additional Rs 5 lakh compensation
to the kin of Sikhs killed in 1984 riots.

As per records, 3,325 people were killed in the riots across the country. Of
them, 2,733 were killed in Delhi alone. The others victims belonged to Haryana,
Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,
among other states.

In 2006, the UPA government had announced a Rs.717 crore rehabilitation package
for anti-Sikh riots victims after the Nanavati Commission, which was set up to
probe the riots, submitted its report.

According to the package, an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 3.5 lakh each to the next
of kin riot victims was disbursed. Out of this only Rs. 517 crore had been spent
and the remaining Rs.200 crore could not be distributed because of dispute over
claimants.

The decision to enhance the compensation was taken just before the by-elections
were announced for three assembly seats in Delhi. The home minister gave the
credit of this step to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              683 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Students perform riots play

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 585 words


Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.

Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.



Teenage students this week performed their own take on the Tottenham riots and
what sparked them, in the same theatre as the critically-acclaimed production
The Riots.

The pupils from Greig City Academy in High Street, Hornsey, performed the play
on Tuesday straight after the hugely popular production at the Bernie Grant Art
Centre in South Tottenham.

The piece was devised by the students, some of whom were directly affected by
the riots.

Louise Munro, head of drama at the school, said: "It is really powerful. It's
completely unbiased. It looks at everybody who was affected but it's interesting
that it's coming from the young people, some of whom were involved."

She added: "It's a very physical performance with lots of movement. It's gritty
and looks at the root of some of the attitudes towards politics, the government
and authority in north London and Tottenham."

Gloire Medina-Mambote, a 16-year-old cast member of Arcadian Gardens, Wood
Green, said: "It follows different people in society; people that were involved
in the riots and others who owned businesses."

The performance marks the culmination of months of work for the pupils, who
conducted interviews with policemen, firemen, rioters and shop-owners to gather
different views of the riots.

Fellow actress Niassa Elliot-Brooks, 16, of South View Road, Hornsey, said:
"It's an all-round viewpoint, it's not from one perspective.

"We explore different viewpoints of the same situation."

John Baraldi, chief executive of the Bernie Grants Art Centre said: "We thought
this was a great opportunity for young people from Tottenham to have an
opportunity to perform something to show their attitude and reaction to the
riots."

The pupils from Greig City Academy in High Street, Hornsey, performed the play
on Tuesday straight after the hugely popular production at the Bernie Grant Art
Centre in South Tottenham.

The piece was devised by the students, some of whom were directly affected by
the riots.

Louise Munro, head of drama at the school, said: "It is really powerful. It's
completely unbiased. It looks at everybody who was affected but it's interesting
that it's coming from the young people."

She added: "It's a very physical performance with lots of movement. It's gritty
and looks at the root of some of the attitudes towards politics, the government
and authority in north London and Tottenham."

Gloire Medina-Mambote, a 16-year-old cast member of Arcadian Gardens, Wood
Green, said: "It follows different people in society; people that were involved
in the riots and others who owned businesses."

The performance marks the culmination of months of work for the pupils, who
conducted interviews with policemen, firemen, rioters and shop-owners to gather
different views of the riots.

Fellow actress Niassa Elliot-Brooks, 16, of South View Road, Hornsey, said:
"It's an all-round viewpoint, it's not from one perspective. We explore
different viewpoints of the same situation."

John Baraldi, chief executive of the Bernie Grants Art Centre said: "We thought
this was a great opportunity for young people from Tottenham to have an
opportunity to perform something to show their attitude and reaction to the
riots."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Opposition runs riot in assembly over Muzaffarnagar riots

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 373 words


LUCKNOW: There was pandemonium in the house once again over Muzaffarnagar riots
with opposition members of Bahujan Samaj Party and Bharatiya Janata Party
members jumping into the well and forcing the Speaker to adjourn the proceeding
for 15 minutes.

The din began during question hour when replying to the first question the
government stated that four riots took place in the last two years resulting in
loss of 57 lives and injuries to 136. Infuriated over the reply, the BSP members
jumped into the well of the House claiming the government had failed to
rehabilitate riot victims and several of them were still in the camps. This led
to heated exchange of words between BSP members and treasury benches.

During one such exchange, parliamentary affairs minister Mohammad Azam Khan
accused the BSP members of being involved in the Muzaffarnagar riots. Khan
stated further that proceeding to slap NSA on some of those involved is
underway.

While the BSP members returned to their seats, Azam's statement irked BJP
members who claimed that when others were involved in the riots why were BJP
members booked? The BJP members jumped into the well of the House and demanded
that the state government reveal who all were behind the riots.

Despite repeated requests by Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey, the BJP members led by
its leader and deputy leader Hukkum Singh and Satish Mahana continued to lay
siege. Though most of the allegations and counter-allegations could not be
heard, following the din, the Speaker adjourned the House for 10 minutes
initially and extended it to further 5 minutes.

Normalcy returned after the House proceedings began again.

Earlier, the state government in a written reply stated that instructions had
been given to the district magistrates and police chiefs to ensure that
government order dated September 8, 2009 to maintain communal harmony was
followed. The officials have also been directed to take stern action against
troublemakers.

The government has also ordered installing of CCTVs at sensitive spots in the
districts which are communally sensitive. Replying further the government stated
that in 2009-10, one riot was reported. The riot had resulted in injuries to 28
persons.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              685 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            LaGrange Daily News, Ga

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

From riots to serving tricky warrants

BYLINE: Matt Chambers, LaGrange Daily News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words


Nov. 02--Riots, hostage negotiations and dignitary protection may not be
everyday events for LaGrange police, but when those situations arise, the
Emergency Service Unit is ready.

The unit is a response team that deals with some of the most serious incidents
that police see.

The 12-member unit is trained and equipped to handle civil unrest, riots,
protection assignments, woodland searches, hostage situations, barricaded
subjects, high-risk search warrants and arrests, and other high-risk scenarios,
Capt. Dale Strickland said.

"The unit responds at the request of the patrol supervisors," he said. "They're
on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week."

The unit came about around 2000 when the police department decided to have a
local unit that could maintain and handle a situation similar to those the state
Special Weapons and Tactics Team faces.

"The benefit is that we have a team we can put together on-site," Strickland
said. "The response time is much quicker. If something happens, we don't have to
wait three to four hours for another agency to get here."

Members of the unit are active LaGrange police officers.

"They're spread out through the department," Strickland said. "They're
detectives, patrol officers and drug officers."

Some of the team members are specialists, such as explosives breachers, marksmen
and medics.

Gary Solt, a physician who practices emergency medicine, also is a member of the
unit and volunteers his time to give on-the-scene medical treatment, Strickland
said.

"We've got a very devoted team that does something that's not easy to do,"
Strickland said.

To be a member of the unit, there are physical, written and swim tests along
with a one year probation period and trial period.

"Our standards are very high," Strickland said, saying members of the Emergency
Service Unit undergo ongoing training throughout the year.

The unit is called out for about four to five incidents a year, Strickland said.

"We deal with barricaded subjects about 90 percent of the time, and 10 percent
is high-risk warrants," he said. "When we do a high-risk search warrant ... it's
going to be a suspect who is a dangerous, armed felon. He's going to do whatever
he can to keep from going to jail."

The unit also helps other agencies in places such as Hogansville, West Point,
Columbus, Peachtree City and Fayetteville.

The unit also worked a protection detail at Sea Island at the 2004 G8 Summit, a
meeting of the world's eight largest industrial nations.

To help with the high-risk scenarios, the unit has a variety of specialized
equipment from tactical rifles to tear gas. It also utilizes heavy bulletproof
vests, less-lethal ammunition and a camera system that allows them to see inside
houses, Strickland said.

"We don't have an armored car, but we could get access to one if needed,"
Strickland said, saying it's a good sign that an armored car is not needed in
LaGrange.

Matt Chambers can be reached at mchambers@ lagrangenews.com or (706) 884-7311,
Ext. 228.

___ (c)2011 the LaGrange Daily News (LaGrange, Ga.) Visit the LaGrange Daily
News (LaGrange, Ga.) at www.lagrangenews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111102-GV-From-riots-to-serving-tricky-warrants-1102-20111102

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GV


                                 Copyright 2011


                              686 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 9, 2016 Saturday

July 13, 1855: Step right up, see the Circus Riot;
U.S. circus troupe attacked by an enraged mob of locals during a show at Fair
Green

BYLINE: Brennan Doherty Toronto Star

SECTION: GREATER TORONTO; Pg. GT2

LENGTH: 262 words


Victorian-age Toronto had a reputation for riots.

During the mid-nineteenth century, there were the Fireman's Riot, the Cabman's
Riot and the D'Arcy McGee Riot. But the Circus Riot of July 13, 1855, had to be
the weirdest of them all.

That night, S.B. Howe's circus troupe was wrapping up a show at Toronto's Fair
Green when enraged locals tried to cut their tent's lines. They had a score to
settle. While out drinking at a "house of ill-fame" (a bordello) on King St. the
night before, S.B. Howe's performers beat up two locals who started an argument
with them.

Once again, the performers fought back. Among the injured townsfolk this time
was one Joseph Bird - a firefighter with the Hook-and-Ladder Fire Company, a
private unit notorious for starting the Fireman's Riot.

Crowds of locals began pelting the circus tent with stones. Someone rang the
nearby fire bell. The Hook-and-Ladder Fire Company responded - and proceeded to
smash and tip all the circus wagons. Locals also set fire to at least one. The
performers were so terrified, according to media reports, that several dove into
the lake rather than face the mob.

A dozen police officers arrived at the scene - and made no arrests. Seventeen
men were eventually charged with rioting, but officers said in court they
couldn't identify any of them.

City hall later blamed the riot on the city's disorganized fire service and
police force. The chief of police was fired, and both forces were rebuilt.

In a strange coincidence, one month later, S.B. Howe's troupe started another
Circus Riot - in Saint John, New Brunswick.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              687 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                             April 30, 2007 Monday

Books recount past political and social events

BYLINE: By Steve Ramirez Sun-News reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words


LAS CRUCES   Adolph Saenz's experiences would make for a good book, or even two.

He is now mulling a third.

Saenz grew up in a modest house on Bowman Avenue, which was then a dirt road. In
those days, all of the roads in his neighborhood were dirt.

He remembers what Las Cruces was like more than 60 years ago. His memories of
growing up Hispanic in a time when racism was more publicly accepted are vividly
described in "The OPS Story," a second book he authored in 2002.

His first book, "Politics of a Prison Riot," paints an unsettling picture of the
terror and carnage of the horrific 1980 New Mexico State Penitentiary riot.
Saenz had only been state Secretary of Criminal Justice for two days when the
36-hour riot began on Feb. 2, 1980.

"The riot made New Mexico the perfect example of the prison reform the (U.S.)
needed," said Saenz, who was recently in Las Cruces to sign copies of his books.
"But the causes that led to the riot ultimately showed that New Mexico was a
special case."

The riot at the state penitentiary, near Santa Fe, is still considered the worst
prison riot in U.S. history. Saenz remembered and repeated a phrase that the
Washington Post used to describe the bloodbath: "Hell on Earth."

"The (prison) system in this state was a disaster," Saenz said. "When I took
over as corrections secretary there was only $20 million in the (corrections)
department budget. The conditions there were terrible and the morale was even
worse. After the riot, the Legislature increased appropriations to more than $77
million by 1985, a tremendous jump."

His second book also hints of how politics could endanger the lives of agents,
employees and operatives of the U.S. Office of Public Safety. Saenz worked for
the U.S. foreign service for 17 years throughout Latin America and Panama.

Saenz's life as chief of OPS operations in Panama and Latin America was one
where he was constantly a potential target for terrorists and kidnappers. One of
his successors as an OPS chief was kidnapped and assassinated by Marxist
terrorists.

Saenz, now 76, said many of those experiences helped him for the year he spent
recently as an advisor to the Iraqi police.

Most of his time in Iraq, was spent working with Lupe Garcia, an Army Reserve
captain, also from Las Cruces. Garcia, 36, served as a logistics officer and was
in charge of operations at ports of entry along Iraqi borders.

Saenz said security operations in Iraq could be better. Dismantling American
security forces after the initial attacks in Iraq has hurt American forces
fighting there.

But Garcia, who has earned the Bronze Star for meritorious service in a combat
zone, said U.S. soldiers are still succeeding.

"The American public would be proud of our forces over there, what they're
trying to do and what they're succeeding at," he said.

Steve Ramirez can be reached at sramirez@lcsun-news.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Adolph Saenz, who was secretary of corrections during the 1980 riot at
Santa Fe Penitentiary, sits Friday at Hastings to sign a book he authored about
the Cold War.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              689 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

India's New Leader Vows Not to Tolerate Sectarian Riots

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, May 20


India's newly appointed prime minister, Manmohan Singh, vowed Thursday that his
government would never allow a repetition of the riots in Gujarat State in 2002
that left at least 1,000 Muslims dead.

Nor, said Mr. Singh, a Sikh who will be India's first minority prime minister,
would anti-Sikh riots in 1984 be repeated.

''These things should never happen again,'' he said in his first news conference
as prime minister. The Gujarat riots were some of the worst sectarian violence
in the history of independent India, which is mostly Hindu but where about 12
percent of the population is Muslim and about 2 percent Sikh. After 59 Hindu
activists were burned to death in a train that had been surrounded by a Muslim
mob, vengeful Hindus rioted for weeks, killing, raping and driving Muslims from
their homes.

The state government, which was controlled by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya
Janata Party, or B.J.P., did not stop the attacks. The central government, also
led by the party then, took no action against the state's chief minister,
Narendra Modi, did nothing to ensure that Muslims received relief, and looked
away -- until the Supreme Court intervened -- as the state failed to punish
Hindu rioters.

The departing prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, has implied that the riots
were an understandable reaction to the train burning.

Mr. Singh's comments set his administration apart from the departing one. While
senior B.J.P. figures, like the deputy prime minister then, L.K. Advani, had
called the riots an ''aberration,'' Mr. Singh framed it differently on Thursday.

''It is very unfortunate that communal riots take place from time to time in our
country,'' he said, an implicit acknowledgment that they have also occurred
under governments led by his party, the Indian National Congress. ''We as a
nation must have a firm determination that these things should never happen.''

His comments reflected what critics of the B.J.P. government have argued: riots
may start, but the state must stop them. ''I do not want to begin my career by
accusing the previous government,'' he said. ''But divisive forces were allowed
a free play, which I believe is extremely injurious to orderly development.''

In the recent parliamentary elections, the B.J.P. fared much more poorly than
expected in Gujarat, losing 12 of 26 seats to the Congress Party. That, along
with its defeat on nationally and Mr. Singh's comments on Thursday, has
heartened the state's Muslims, to a degree.

''Certainly and naturally I feel very good,'' Shakeel Ahamad, of the Islamic
Relief Committee of Gujarat, said about of the prime minister's remarks. ''But I
want to listen something from Manmohan about what he is doing for Gujarat now.
What about the trials? What about Modi? What about the structural violence, the
harassment of Muslims? There is still harassment going on.''

Mr. Singh also addressed relations with Pakistan, India's Muslim-majority
neighbor. The two nations, born out of the former British empire at Partition in
1947, are both nuclear-armed and have fought three wars, two over the disputed
territory of Kashmir. A peace initiative with Pakistan was started during Mr.
Vajpayee's last year in office, and Mr. Singh signaled that he would try to
carry it forward.

''We seek the most friendly relations with our neighbors, more so with Pakistan
than any other,'' he said. ''We must find the ways and means to resolve all
outstanding problems that have been a source of friction and the unfortunate
history of our relations with Pakistan.''

On the economy, Mr. Singh said the state would retain control of certain
industries, like oil and gas, that the previous government had planned to
privatize. He said nationalized banks would also remain under government
control.

But other state-owned industries would either have to become competitive or face
disinvestment, he said, although he was careful to say the government would not
add to unemployment.

Mr. Singh is in the process of trying to form a cabinet, bringing on board
Congress's electoral allies. Congress won 145 seats in the new Parliament but
needs 272 to form a majority.

One of its allies, Laloo Prasad Yadav of Bihar, whose Rashtriya Janata Dal won
21 seats in Parliament's lower house, left New Delhi on Thursday evening,
apparently in an attempt to put pressure on the Congress Party.

''Let me remind Congress that it has only 145 members and we account for the
remaining numbers,'' Mr. Yadav told reporters.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manmohan Singh, center, who will become India's prime minister,
was offered traditional sweets at his residence in New Delhi yesterday. (Photo
by Agence France-Press--Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              690 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

'Can't deny loan to 2002 riot-affected over past default'

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 259 words


Ahmedabad: At a time when rules for bank defaulters are becoming more stringent,
the Gujarat high court has held in a case that a bank cannot deny loan under
special policy for 2002-riot affected, just because the applicant had earler
defaulted on a loan. The HC has asked the state government and Bank of India to
extend loan to a 2002-riot affected trader from Bhavnagar, Usman Ghani Aadhiya,
who had defaulted in an earlier loan obtained from the same bank.

The bank was refusing to pay him a fresh loan after riots on the ground of his
earlier default. Aadhiya had suffered damage of Rs 5.1 lakh to his business in
the riots and was thus entitled to loan at 4% flat interest from a bank
according to government policy.The HC said it was not permissible for the bank
to exclude him from extending the loan, because he falls in the category of the
riots affected, for whom the scheme was floated by the government. "In denying
the benefit, the policy cannot be allowed to distract from its object, else it
would be a policy operated in a self-defeating way antithetic to the very object
and purpose. Earlier default is entirely unconnected aspect to the conditions of
the policy and the compass and object of the policy," the court order
reads.Aadhiya had cited the government resolution (GR) passed on March 16, 2002,
that laid down the policy to provide financial assistance to the riot affected,
and to those shopkeepers and businessmen, whose businesses and sources of
livelihood had suffered in the communal riots.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              691 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Bullion sale hit in riot-affected areas of Meerut

BYLINE: Ishita Bhatia

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 224 words


MEERUT: The city might seem to have regained its calm after the May 10 riots in
Teer Gran area, but the jewellers in Sheher Sarrafa, near the riots-affected
area, say the customers for the nearby market are still in a state of shock.

"People are still scared to come in the riots affected market area. Though the
customer turnout is also low because they are expecting the gold rate to go
further down, the basic reason is the fear due to the recent riots," said Ravi
Prakash Agarwal, president of Meerut Bullion Association (MBA).

15 people were injured and one succumbed to the injuries in the recent riots in
the city over a disputed ancient well. Following the riots, the markets were
shut down for three days over security reasons.

"Just like everyone, we are also expecting the 'good days' to come for us under
Modi government. I think the people should now leave their apprehensions about
the market and step out," said Rajendra Kumar Jain, vice president of MBA.

Though, the gold shops in markets other than the ones near Teer Gran continue to
thrive due to low rates of gold, which was Rs 27,650 for 10 gms on Wednesday, Rs
450 less than the day before.

With 35,000 gold artisans in the city, Meerut is one of the largest gold markets
in Asia and generates a business of Rs 10 crore daily. But the recent riots have
had an impact on the sales.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              692 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bill targets masks in riots

BYLINE: Robert Hiltz, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 183  words


A private member's bill to ban the use of masks in the midst of a riot is set to
see its first round of debate in the House of Commons today.

The bill comes as Vancouver police are handing out posters to try to round up a
number of suspects they say participated in June's Stanley Cup riots.

Alberta Conservative MP Blake Richards says his bill - dubbed the Preventing
Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act
- is an attempt to prevent violence in the streets by making it illegal to wear
a disguise while an individual is part of a riot.

When a riot starts, he said, "there's so much going (on) that police have a very
difficult time to identify who these people are.

This just gives (police) another tool to make an arrest of someone who is
clearly in a riot situation: they're disguising themselves, they've obviously
got an intention to do something that they don't want to be identified when they
are doing it."

Richards' bill would amend Sections 65 and 66 of the Criminal Code, which
outline the penalties for participating in a riot or an unlawful assembly.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              693 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                Ahmedabad Mirror

Collect data on successful riot handling: Sreekumar

BYLINE: Ahmedabad Mirror Bureau

LENGTH: 421 words


Former state DGP (Intelligence) R B SreekumarFormer state DGP (Intelligence) R B
Sreekumar has requested the Nanavati Commission, probing the post-Godhra riots,
to collect information about administrative and operational measures taken by
police officers in areas that witnessed relatively less communal violence in
2002. In a letter written to the Commission as well as SIT chief R K Raghavan
last week, Sreekumar urged the Commission to seek information from officers like
V K Gupta, Manoj Shashidhar, Satish Verma, Narasimha Komar, Vivek Shrivastava,
Rahul Sharma, M D Antani, Upendra Singh and Keshav Kumar. 'Gather information,
data and inputs' "The Commission may kindly get information, data, inputs and
documents from the Commissioners of Police, Surat and Rajkot cities,
Superintendents of Police and District Magistrates, in whose jurisdiction the
communal violence was purposefully controlled and public order was sustained.
"The information on operational strategy, tactics, ground-level methodology,
techniques of leadership... adopted by these officers during the time of
protracted 2002 anti-minority blood bath in Gujarat will be of great relevance
to the Commission," stated Sreekumar in his letter.

He cited the example of the then Surat Police Commissioner V K Gupta who
effectively controlled the riot situation in Surat, the second most populous
city in Gujarat. Due to this, only seven deaths were reported in contrast to 326
killings in Ahmedabad and 32 in Vadodara. Of the 26 police districts and four
commissionerates, no riot-related deaths occurred in Amreli, Narmada, Ahwa-Dang,
Jamnagar, Navasari, Porbandar, Surat Rural, Valsad, Surendranagar, Rajkot Rural
and Kutch districts, the letter stated. 2002 riots The government, while
portraying 2002 riots as a spontaneous articulation of ire against a community
following the Godhra train burning incident, underplayed or belittled "the
praise-worthy and model performance of law enforcers" in areas with zero or
negligible violence, Sreekumar wrote. He also brought forth some statistics
related to the 2002 riots. Sreekumar stated, "Unlike major genocidal violent
incidents like Naroda Patia and Gulbarg society in Ahmedabad, Sardarpura in
Mehsana, Kidiad in Sabarkhanta, Ode village in Anand and Best Bakery in
Vadodara; more Muslims were killed in police firing. Here is a paradoxical and
inexplicably strange phenomena of about 60 pc of death in police firing and 77
pc of casualties during mob-violence is being drawn from the Muslim community".

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              695 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

Anger smoulders in Tottenham: the Broadwater Farm riots of 1985

BYLINE: Katy Stoddardguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

As north London is gripped by riots, we take a look at the events on the
Broadwater Farm estate that rocked Tottenham 25 years ago

FULL TEXT

The riots that started in Tottenham on Saturday night, and have since spread to
other areas of London, bear a striking similarity to events on the Broadwater
Farm estate in Tottenham in 1985, as  in his piece for Comment is Free.

On Saturday 5 October 1985, Cynthia Jarrett collapsed and died during a raid on
her home by Metropolitan police officers, who were searching for stolen goods
following the arrest of her son Floyd.

The following day, relatives led a peaceful march to Tottenham police station,
but a later public meeting turned violent and quickly escalated. On the evening
of 6 October, PC Keith Blakelock, who was protecting firefighters tackling a
blaze, was killed by a mob on the Broadwater Farm estate.

As  at Mrs Jarrett's death and police handling of the riots, the Guardian leader
on 8 October called for the government to tackle the underlying causes as well
as punish the perpetrators.

Haringey council leader Bernie Grant courted controversy when he was infamously
quoted as saying "the police got a bloody good hiding", though he quickly
backtracked.

In total,  with offences related to the riots: 56 with affray, seven with riot
and six with the murder of PC Blakelock.

Winston Silcott, Engin Raghip and Mark Braithwaite were quickly charged with the
police officer's murder (along with three youths who were later acquitted) and
on 20 March 1987 they were found guilty.

On 25 November 1991, after years of pressure from campaigners,  by the Court of
Appeal, swiftly followed by those of Raghip and Braithwaite. PC Blakelock's
murder remains unsolved.

The , published in July 1986, criticised the police and the council, and urged
stronger police-community relations. The Guardian leader column was dismissive
of the effect it would have: "All one can say is that there will be a next time,
and that it will be even bloodier than Broadwater Farm."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              696 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 28, 2011 Monday

Advani: No apology for Gujarat riots

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


Senior BJP leader L K Advani has ruled out an apology over the 2002 post-Godhra
riots in Gujarat.

"You are talking of regret and apologies. I understand there have been many
riots in Hindustan. It is very often that handling of a situation...is lack of
governance. The issue of an apology does not arise. But it is sure that riots
are a sad issue," Advani said on Monday.

He was speaking at the 'Face the Press' programme where he answered questions
from leading journalists including N Ram of The Hindu, Star India CEO Uday
Shankar and Kumar Ketkar of the Dainik Bhaskar Group here.

"I do not want to say anything about Atalji. If he had said (it) in some
context, it must be correct," he said when asked about former PM Atal Bihari
Vajpayee's advice to Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi to follow 'raj dharma'
in wake of the riots.

"Let me say that what happened in 1984 was not a riot, it was (a) one-sided
carnage," Advani said in reply to questions on the Congress apologising for the
1984 riots and added that in case of Gujarat, "Godhra happened first, then there
was a reaction".

He said that if anyone in the government had done anything wrong, then the
matter would be examined by the court.

Advani said the developments in the 2G case were not merely due to the
Opposition or the public opinion, but "the clincher has generally come from the
judiciary... particularly the Supreme Court". He also credited constitutional
bodies such as the CAG for this and said there was a "sense of disgust" in the
country against corruption.

On the demolition of Babri Masjid, Advani said the Hindutva outfits had failed
to anticipate the "impatience of the people" and hence it was necessary for the
movement to have been planned properly. He added that the demolition was not
planned and had taken the leaders "totally by surprise".

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              697 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Post (South Africa)

                            April 02, 2008 Wednesday
                                   e1 Edition

Smoke rises over Inanda riot claims

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 560 words


MUCH has been written in POST for the past 23 years about the unfortunate Inanda
riots. I exclude former HOD member Mamoo Rajab from any criticism that may be
contained in this letter. I am aware that he had taken up a matter in respect of
the allocation of funds. I am also proud of the role played by his late uncle,
Mr A M Rajab, in the service of the community.

I can confirm that during the Inanda riots there were many who had hidden
agendas and were not really focused on assisting the victims, many of whom are
now mainly housed in Canelands, Phoenix. They are witnesses to the role played
by Ministers in the erstwhile House of Delegates, under my chairmanship.

When the riots broke out on a Friday afternoon, for some inexplicable reason,
the police action was very poor or non-existent. I was on my way to Durban by
air, at the time. The scenario that played out was that the menfolk could not
get to their homes as Inanda was burning and that was the grim picture I saw
when, after my intervention, the riot police rushed to the area.Certain key
residents from Duffs Road, especially the Ramkissoon and the Ramnarian families,
and I, entered the burning Inanda in a riot police vehicle and ensured that
everyone was evacuated safely. Under my personal command, relief camps were set
up immediately and I negotiated with the contractor to release a newly built
school in Verulam to be used as a refugee camp and the Welfare and Housing
Ministries and departments swung into action.

We made sure that every pupil attended school and every pensioner received their
grant. The support from the community was fantastic. I flew to Pretoria for
urgent discussions with the Minister of Finance at the time and managed to get
R35 million for the urgent construction of homes and arranged for the victims'
belongings to be taken out of Inanda safely. It is now quite saddening to read
praises heaped on people who were never around and those who toiled day and
night are not mentioned in articles and letters. I have never seen most of the
politicians mentioned in the columns of POST helping Inanda victims, as I was
there every day. The records can never be erased.

AMICHAND RAJBANSI

Chatsworth

0 0 0

I READ a very interesting advert by the Minority Front in the issue of March 5 -
9. This advert starts with the following: "Grants - Do not be misled. Minority
Front wants R1000. We are reaching there."

The other wordings in this advert rightfully corrects the wrong perceptions that
was created that age restrictions for men will be reduced to 60 years. The
correct age is 63 from April and lowered as we go on until age 60 is reached.

Lets not deny that the R70 afforded to pensioners is peanuts. In fact, the real
increase by giving the pensioners only R70 is negligible for recent inflation
figures already increased to nearly 9% according to the CPI.

In the last general elections held in 2004 the MF campaigned vigorously on
giving the pensioners R1 000 per month as an election promise. If one still
remembers the pensioners only received a R50 increase in that year. Yes, the MF
is quite correct! Eventually the pensioners will reach R1 000 per month but that
will be increased by normal budget by Finance Minister Trevor Manual. It seems
quite clear the MF's target of R1 000 per month for our pensioners will only be
reached in two years.

VICKEY PILLAY

Umkomaas

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NP


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              698 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           macclesfield-express.co.uk

                     October 20, 2016 Thursday 3:48 PM GMT

Crowd-funding appeal to bring Banksy exhibition to Macclesfield;
The ADP Riot Tour, which was borne out of Banksy's dystopian theme park, could
come to Macclesfield for one week.

BYLINE: By Rhiannon McDowall

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


A group of art lovers are appealing for support to bring part of a Banksy pop-up
exhibition to town.

Street artist Banksy, known for his political satire, opened 'Dismaland' as a
temporary art project based on a dystopian world, and attracted thousands of
visitors during its five week appearance.

Now Macclesfield is being given the opportunity to host one of the
installations, and community arts organisation Artspace is encouraging residents
to pledge their cash and make it happen.

The exhibit, by artist Jimmy Cauty and part of the 'ADP Riot Tour', is a 40ft
shipping container which houses a miniature depiction of a post-riot landscape.

Adults and children can view the installation - which will be based at Exchange
Square - through peepholes in the walls of the container.

Jane Munro, from the group and co-founder of the Barnaby Festival, said the
Macclesfield Riot of 1812 - during which farmers and market traders fought over
prices - means the town is the perfect host for the exhibit.

She said: "This is a really exciting project but we need everyone's help to make
it happen.

Family devastated after baby girl diagnosed with cancer

"The Riot Tour is only visiting towns or cities that have a history of riots and
I'm sure it'll come as quite a surprise to some people that we had our very own
riot back in 1812.

"It's a fascinating part of Macclesfield's history and we want to celebrate it
by bringing this fantastic Riot Tour into town.

"Far from inciting another riot, we hope the experience of the ADP in
Macclesfield's Exchange Square will be a fun, peaceful and thought-provoking
one."

Artspace has launched a crowd-funding campaign to raise £2,000 towards bringing
the temporary exhibition to the town.

If fundraising is successful, spin-off events will include a launch party with
live music, family friendly activities in and around Exchange Square, plus a
reenactment of the riot itself next year.

People will also get incentives for pledging cash for the installation,
including tickets for the opening event, limited edition memorabilia or
sponsorship packages, depending on how much is donated.

Anyone wishing to pledge their support should visit
www.spacehive.com/adp-in-macclesfield . For more information about the tour go
to facebook.com/Jimmy CautyADP.

Before the bench

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBME


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              699 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Front: Former Met chief fears more riots to come on UK streets

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


Britain may face years of public disorder fuelled by the economic crisis, with
police battling to keep control of the streets, a former Scotland Yard chief has
warned.

Lord Stevens made his warning at the launch of an independent commission into
the future of policing, which has been set up by Labour as it tries to outflank
the government on law and order.

Last night a senior police source told the Guardian that Stevens's warning was
shared by most police chiefs and Scotland Yard said: "We anticipate the
potential for the increased demands of both peaceful protest and greater
criminal disorder threats from a minority continuing into 2012. Our resourcing
levels and tactics will reflect lessons learned from 2011."

Stevens said the way that outbreaks of public disorder are policed will be a key
issue, given police failings when England was hit this summer by some of the
worst riots in living memory: "The next 18 months, two to three years, one of
the main issues will be public order, or rather public disorder." Asked what
could be causes of the disorder, Stevens said: " Looking ahead into the crystal
ball, I think you can see there is disquiet on the streets. I'm really concerned
about youth unemployment, and unemployment generally, I'm really concerned about
signs of increasing crime. My gut feeling and beyond, is that it's going to be a
very difficult 18 months (to) two years. I hope that I'm wrong, but I don't
think I am."

He said he hoped any disorder would not be on the scale of the summer riots of
2011 but warned that "the police will have to be match-fit on this issue".

Stevens said the police response to this summer's riots led them to lose control
of the streets. He added that the first riot in Tottenham, north London, after a
police shooting, should have been anticipated. During the summer riots police
had been "acting a day behind"' events, he added.

Stevens said it "rang alarm bells" that stop and search was an issue, and police
must be better at explaining to communities what they are doing and be better at
listening to their concerns.

Some of the concerns raised by Stevens echoed the findings of the Guardian/LSE's
Reading the Riots study, which has revealed that a key factor in the August
riots was discontent with the police, with stop and search one of the most hated
aspects. A Whitehall source said ministers rejected Stevens's analysis, saying
there was nothing to indicate there would be renewed disorder; nor was it
inevitable rising unemployment would lead to trouble. The source added the
government view was the cause of the summer riots was "not about deprivation or
distrust of the police, it's about getting free stuff". Tough sentences would
act as a deterrent and the police were now better able to quell trouble. But
Stevens's warnings carry weight not just because of his tenure as Britain's top
officer, but because he has been courted by and advised both Labour and the
Conservatives.

The inquiry that Stevens will chair, which will report by 2013, is the first in
five decades to promise a root-and-branch examination. It comes as police face
large cuts, with rank-and-file officers saying cuts to their pay and conditions
have hit morale. Labour says the coalition government rebuffed its calls for a
royal commission into policing, so it effectively set up its own. Stevens, the
last commissioner of the Metropolitan police to complete his term in office,
warned the government not to be "insulting" or "arrogant" in dismissing the work
of the panel of academics and former police chiefs that he will chair.

Paul McKeever, chair of the Police Federation, said: "We welcome the independent
commission - it's going some way to what we've been calling for for years, to
look at things in a holistic way, rather than in a piecemeal way, as the
government has done." The policing minister, Nick Herbert, has said it was wrong
for Labour to be "subcontracting decisions on police reform - reform which they
espoused in government and are now opportunistically opposing - to a committee".
The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, said: "My fear is that policing in
Britain now faces a perfect storm. The scale of the cuts, the chaos of confused
reforms, escalating demands and declining morale."

Captions:

'My gut feeling and beyond is that it'll be a very difficult two years. I hope
I'm wrong, but I don't think I am'

Lord Stevens

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              700 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                National Edition

Riot in the streets

BYLINE: Guy De Riot, National Post

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Pg. AL2

LENGTH: 412  words


Today, Guy De Riot of the U. K. band The Gin Riots files the first in a series
of reports on the music scene in London.

Shalom, shalom, good people of Canada.

I'm writing to you from Tooting, South London, in a dark corner of a damp room
in the dilapidated little flat I share with my band, The Gin Riots. We are a
small group of boys who play mostly sweet but often dirty folk tunes, and --
though I am told daily that our star is on the rise, that around the corner lie
arenas and groupies who don't look like they've just gone 10 rounds with Motley
Crue--I am most certainly qualified to offer a sneaky peek into the life of a
struggling artist in London town. On top of that, I'll be serving you up all
sorts of obscure and exciting morsels about music, love, culture and the like on
this side of the pond.

First things first: Russell Brand. I understand you guys have had quite an
introduction to Britain's high goblin king recently, what with that Hollywood
film he did last year and the "shock, shock, horror" reaction to his performance
at the MTV Video Music Awards. Last week, a prank phone call he made on his
radio show landed him a suspension from his job, along with about the most
public telling-off there is going -- a stern mention in Parliament by big Gordy
Brown himself. In a gesture of artistic solidarity and no small amount of
grossly inappropriate opportunism, I've just sent Brand a letter sympathizing
with his plight and asking him to appear in our next video. Every cloud, eh?

The video to which I refer is proving a bloody nightmare to organize, mainly
because our leading fella is being played by an actor from the latest Bond film.
Somehow, costume fittings for low-budget music videos seem to get sidelined when
there are press tours, premieres and Bond girls to attend to. Mr. Bond himself,
Daniel Craig, was at the Roundhouse this week to see Oasis play the Electric
Proms, a gig I man-aged to sneak into through the back door. When Noel Gallagher
pointed him out at the back, a spotlight was flashed on the new 007 and a crowd
of 5,000 showed their appreciation in the only way we Brits really know how --
with some good ol' fashioned piss-taking. "Who are ya? Who are ya?" they shouted
in unison. Charmant, non?

Elsewhere this week, I met trip hop overlord Tricky in a Soho jazz club. He got
all shirty with me 'cause he fancied the girl I was with, then gave me a hug and
told me I was "the realest man in this club."

Until next time, adieu.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: Glenn Lowson For National Post; ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              701 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

25 years since Ely riots;
Echoes of the past

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 198 words


FRIDAY, August 30, 1991, is a date that will be etched in many people's
memories.

It was the night, 25 years ago, when the streets of Ely became a riot zone when
a dispute between neighbouring shopkeepers flared up to such an extent that
police officers were dispatched in full riot gear.

At the height of the riots, about 500 people turned out to battle with the
police over four nights and rioters threw petrol bombs and stones. What are your
memories of the event? It's a week that former First Minister Rhodri Morgan
classes as one of the more extraordinary he has experienced.

The 76-year-old, who was Cardiff West MP at the time, said his first memory of
the riots was receiving a call from Reverend Bob Morgan alerting him to the
situation.

The first evidence Mr Morgan saw of the trouble was a woman attacking the
closed-up shop of Abdul Waheed, a Pakistani shopkeeper involved in a dispute
with neighbouring shopowners over the right to sell bread.

"When I arrived at the scene she was stood outside the shop, which was by now
shuttered up, and was trying to hit the roller-shuttered door with her high
heels and sort of kicking backwards like a mule. It was very bizarre," Mr Morgan
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot police in Wilson Road, Ely, Cardiff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2016 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              702 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday

BRIEF: System of a Down, the Prodigy and more added to Riot Fest lineup

BYLINE: Josh Terry, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 166 words


June 23--"Riot Fest Sucks?" More like "Riot Fest Is Good, Actually."

After delaying the announcement of the three-day event's second wave of
performing acts, Riot Fest Chicago finally has revealed its full lineup.

Somehow, with the quality of the lineup so far, the bill continues to get
better, with System of a Down and the Prodigy leading the additions. Also added
to the bill are 88 Fingers Louie and Chef'Special. While that's not a lot, it
sure rounds out an already-solid batch of bands.

Before we process the new acts, let us remind you that Riot Fest's Twitter bio
has the disclaimer, "I'm sorry we didn't book the exact bands you wanted, in the
exact order you wanted, in the exact location you wanted, for free" so let's put
a cork on the whining for now, complainers.

Below, check out the full lineup and buy multi-day tickets here.

jterry@redeyechicago.com, @joshhterry

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150623-1RC-BRF-System-of-a-Down-the-Prodigy-and-more-added-to-Riot
-Fest-lineup-0623-20150623

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                              703 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Unemployed youths triggering riots?

BYLINE: Bijin Jose

SECTION: VADODARA

LENGTH: 611 words


VADODARA: Baroda simmers and this time a different generation might be
responsible for it. Youngsters, who were too small at the time of the 2002 riots
, may be the ones whose restiveness is causing fresh riots in the city, police
and local sources said.

Locals in the sensitive areas assert that most of the rioting is triggered by
youth idling around the city streets. They gather in no time when a petty
incident takes place and trigger a riot.

"The walled city area is occupied mostly by people with weak economic
backgrounds. The economic instability makes the youth here susceptible to
anti-social elements who provoke violence. There needs to be self-realization
among the poor that riots will affect only them and not the rich," said
prominent sociologist N Rajaram.

"Youngsters in the sensitive areas do not support their community leaders. They
have not seen and experienced the loss after 2002 riots. Most of the youth
regardless of their faith are uneducated and do menial jobs for survival," said
Lalabhai Shyamwala, a social worker.

Many in the walled city feel that the fresh round of violence in the city since
the last couple of years is due to lack of effective leadership in the
communities. Recent riots in the city occurred over petty issues.

"Immediately after the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992, there were riots in
Ahmedabad, Anand and Surat. Surprisingly, there were no widespread riots in
Vadodara, which was known for riots in the early 1980s. Peace measures were
taken much ahead of time by the police and administration then," said Rajaram.

Rajaram added that peace committees were formed at the Mohalla level by the then
commissioner ahead of Babri Masjid demolition. The police worked with committee
leaders to maintain peace. They also took preventive custody of notorious
elements to avoid any violence.

Affluent and educated people from both the communities in Fatehpura, Yakutpura,
Wadi, Panigate and other sensitive areas have relocated to other parts of the
city following the 2002 riots. However, people who stayed back have chosen to do
so for their inherited properties.

"Illiteracy and unemployment have always been a problem. Under Suraksha Setu, we
are enabling the youth to be employable and independent. We are also conducting
peace meetings with people from each mohalla as a step towards peace building
between the communities," said police commissioner E Radhakrishana.

Radhakrishana added that they have devised a scheme 'Mahila Punarvas' to
sensitize women in the affected areas about the damages caused by riots.
Sensitizing women and children can considerably reduce the frequency of
incidents of violence.

Shantilal Soni, jeweller: "Take a stroll at around 11pm and you will see
youngsters sitting in groups in every nook and corner of the street. Even a
small incident can trigger night-long clashes. Such tensions constantly hamper
routine life here"

Kruti Rana, standard XII student: "Riots are not only devastating for elders,
but are also equally painful for students. Schooling is really important, but
due to the riots we are forced to sit at home often"

Ashfak Pathan, standard XII student: "If the root cause of communal clashes is
petty, then people should come forward and settle them. Riots are traumatizing
for us as well as for our parents, who are anxious till we return from school"

Siraj Pathan, shop owner: "Fatehpura, where I have my shop has become infamous
for meaningless riots. I hope that community leaders come forward and sincerely
work towards peace instead of tokenism like offering garlands. The locality can
become the safest zone in the city if this happens"

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              704 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday

Remember communal riots as well

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 231 words


I SUPPORT the Government's recent initiatives in marking Singapore's fight
against communism.

The re-publication of former prime minister Lee Kuan Yew's 1961 radio talks and
the dedication of a marker to those who resisted or were killed by the
communists ("Marker to remember anti-communist struggle"; Dec 9) remind
Singaporeans of the challenges we had to overcome in our struggle for
nationhood.

Besides communism, communalism was another menace in Singapore in the 1950s and
1960s. However, unlike communism, the latter remains a potential threat to our
peace and prosperity.

Although we have enjoyed racial harmony since independence, we should not take
it for granted.

The 1950 Maria Hertogh riots and the 1964 racial riots have shown that
misunderstandings between the different ethnic groups in Singapore could ignite
communal violence and tear our social fabric apart. Moreover, our opposition to
communal politics was one reason why we left Malaysia in 1965.

This year marks the 50th anniversary of the 1964 racial riots. Next year also
marks the 65th anniversary of the Maria Hertogh riots.

The Government should take the opportunity to erect a marker or memorial to
commemorate these riots. It would remind Singaporeans to be vigilant against
communalism and safeguard multiracialism and multiculturalism, both important
building blocks in our nation's success.

Chan Cheng Lin

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              705 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                            August 10, 2013 Saturday

BJP to promote Modi for PM with book

LENGTH: 389  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


umbai, Aug. 10 -- Zafar Sareshwala, a Gujarati businessman, had announced to
take Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi to International Court of Justice
after the 2002 riots. Almost 11 years later, he has become a Modi follower and
denies the charge that Modi hates Muslims. Academician and writer Madhu Kishwar
has narrated this story in Modinama, her latest book. The Maharashtra unit of
the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set to endorse the book to start its
campaign promoting Modi as the future Prime Minister. The book narrates the
views of Muslims and Christians living in Gujarat and explains the economic
profiles of the Muslims there.

Sareshwala lost his business in the 2002 riots. He garnered the courage and met
Modi in London to discuss the riots. Modi impressed him in the first meeting.
They met consistently and developed a personal bond. Modi helped Sareshwala
rebuild his business empire. Sareshwala told Kishwar, "The charge that Modi
hates Muslims or that he engineered the riots to win election has been proved to
be bunkum by the enquiries of the highest court. Due to decades of recurrent
politically engineered communal riots during previous regimes, Gujarat police
and administration were also heavily communalised. Most of these riots took
place under Congress regimes which ruled Gujarat almost without a break till
1995. And yet, Modi managed to mobilise all the forces he could to restore
normalcy within three days."

The BJP believes that the book, which is available in an e-book format, could
prove a helpful tool in building Modi's image as a Muslim friendly leader. "We
are planning to email the book to thinkers and policymakers across society,"
said BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari. "We will also print and circulate it
everywhere including the Muslim pockets," he added. A Muslim leader from the
Nationalist Congress Party, however, is sceptical. "Government officers and
businessmen have to speak good about the rulers, otherwise they cannot be
successful. The said Muslim businessman will change his mind if Modi does not
remain in power. I don't think the book will help BJP much," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              706 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Nitish party slams Modi and Congress - Dal (U) glare on 1984 riots

BYLINE: J.P. YADAV

LENGTH: 678  words


New Delhi, April 13: The Janata Dal (United) today recalled the Gujarat riots to
rule out any tie-up with "dost" BJP if it pressed ahead with Narendra Modi as
its mascot for 2014 but also invoked the Sikh massacre to distance itself from
"enemy" Congress.

The NDA partner's stand came through amid speculation that the party was tilting
towards the Congress following differences with the BJP over Modi's perceived
projection as the coalition's prime ministerial face for the Lok Sabha
elections, due next year.

"During the communal riots of 2002, Narendra Modi had badly failed to discharge
his duty as chief minister in controlling the riots," Dal (U) general secretary
K.C. Tyagi said, briefing the media after the first day of the party's two-day
national council and executive body meetings in Delhi.

He didn't spare the Congress either, calling it an "enemy party" as he went on
to recall the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi that followed the assassination of Indira
Gandhi. "We are opposed to the 2002 Gujarat communal riots. We are also opposed
to the Sikh riots of 1984," Tyagi, a loyalist of Dal (U) chief Sharad Yadav,
said.

Asked about the possibility of an electoral arrangement with the Congress in the
event of a break-up with the BJP, Tyagi said: "Congress se alliance door door
tak nahin hoga. Congress se khuda bachae (There is no possibility of an alliance
with the Congress in the far-off future too. God save us from the Congress)."

It was Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar's Adhikar rally in Delhi last month
that had fuelled talk of a possible realignment. The Dal (U) leader had praised
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P. Chidambaram and said he
was ready to put his support on the table for whoever granted the special status
he has been seeking for his state.

So in spite of Tyagi's comments, sources were not ruling out the possibility of
an understanding with the Congress. While Sharad is known for his strong
anti-Congress stand and the majority view also is that a tie-up with the party
would be a "blunder" at this juncture, it is no secret that Nitish's decision
would ultimately prevail.

Leaders close to Nitish said he too believes the Congress is a "sinking ship",
given the anti-incumbency sentiment over corruption and price rise, but had not
yet closed the option. The chief minister, they said, would take a call as the
situation emerges, possibly after the elections.

Asked about his party's relations with the BJP, Tyagi tried not to raise the
mercury just yet and, to many, even sounded conciliatory as he described the Dal
(U)'s ruling partner in Bihar as a "dost".

"BJP hamari dost party hai. Dost se na saudebaazi ki jaati hai, na dabao dala
jaata hai (The BJP is our friend. With a friend, you neither indulge in
bargaining, nor put pressure)," Tyagi said, asked if the Dal (U) was trying to
arm-twist the BJP over Modi.

Party sources insisted there would be "no compromise" on Modi. "Our stand
remains the same. There is no question of dilution," said a leader close to
Nitish, adding the party's stand would be clearly spelt out in the political
resolution to be adopted tomorrow.

"The Dal (U) had never compromised and would never compromise on the issue of
secularism," Tyagi asserted.

Insiders said the political resolution to be adopted tomorrow would endorse the
line Nitish has already taken: that the NDA's candidate for Prime Minister
should have "secular credentials" and "wider acceptability".

The only relief the BJP can expect, a source said, is that it could be spared a
deadline for finalising the name.

"Yes, the BJP is our friend. As a friend and well-wisher, we want to advise it
against committing the mistake of projecting Narendra Modi as Prime Minister.
One gives ample time to a friend to correct a mistake. If he still doesn't, one
has to take a call," said a Dal (U) leader known to be a Nitish confidant.

At its meeting today, the Dal (U) merely sought to build its case against the
BJP. The organisational report adopted today accused the party of not following
the "alliance dharma" outside Bihar.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              707 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Guardian Weekly

                             August 26, 2011 Friday

Guardian Weekly: English riots: Cameron and Blair clash over cause of unrest

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 334 words


David Cameron has reaffirmed his belief that the riots were symptomatic of moral
decline in Britain, and Tony Blair dismissed this argument as a "highfalutin
wail" that ignored the true cause of the problem. In a rare intervention in
domestic policy, Blair said there was no problem with moral standards in society
generally. The riots, he said, were primarily caused by a minority of
disaffected young people who constituted a "specific problem that requires
deeply specific solutions".

Cameron and Blair set out their rival analyses in Sunday newspapers. They
clashed as Scotland Yard revealed that 3,296 offences were committed during the
rioting in London, leading to 1,875 arrests. More than 1,000 of those

offences involved looting.

In the Sunday Express, Cameron said riots illustrated the need to "reclaim"
society. "The greed and thuggery we saw during the riots did not come out of
nowhere," he said. "There are deep problems in our society that have been
growing for a long time: a decline in responsibility, a rise in selfishness, a
growing sense that individual rights come before anything else."

But Blair, in an article in the Observer, said that to make this argument was to
"trash our own reputation abroad". Although Blair had previously warned about
moral decline after the murder of James Bulger, when he was shadow home
secretary, he said he now realised that his 1993 speech was "good politics but
bad policy".

Blair wrote young people now were generally more respectable, responsible and
hard-working than they were when he was young. Instead, the rioting was mainly
caused by "the group of young, alienated, disaffected youth who are outside the
social mainstream and who live in a culture at odds with any canons of proper
behaviour".

Blair said that his government developed policies to deal with these people and
that they required intervention "literally family by family and at an early
stage".

Captions:

Tony Blair refused to blame the rioting on an overall 'moral decline' in Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              708 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday

Seven Godhra riot cases to be decided in six months;
After 9 Years of Wait

BYLINE: Nikunj Soni

LENGTH: 254  words


Nine years after the 2002 communal riots flared up in the state, trials of the
six major riot cases are about to conclude and their judgment will likely be
delivered within six months.

"We are expecting judgment of the six major riot cases this year itself as most
of them are in their last phase," said a senior official of the Supreme Court
appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT).

The official further said, "There might be delay in the Gulbarg Society massacre
as the Supreme Court has put a stay over the delivery of its judgment."

Large scale riots had spread across the state on February 28, 2002 onwards
following the incident of the Sabarmati Express train carnage that happened at
Godhra railway station on February 27. The apex court handed over the
investigation of ten crucial riot cases to the SIT under the chairmanship of RK
Raghavan, former director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).

The ten cases were the Godhra carnage, Gulbarg Society, Naroda Patiya, Naroda
Gam, Sardarpura, Dipda Darwaja, British national's killings and 3 separate
incidents of killing in Ode village in Anand district. The legal proceedings in
the cases, apart from Naroda Patiya and Naroda Gam, are in their last stages.

Gulbarg case's verdict depends upon the outcome of a petition before the apex
court. Judgment of the SIT investigated Godhra carnage case will be pronounced
on March 1. The investigation of the cases was handed over to the SIT by the
Supreme Court on the ground of biased probe done by the Gujarat police.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              709 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Halifax Daily News (Nova Scotia)

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday

Officials deny riot at Renous

BYLINE: CP

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 135  words


Officials at a federal prison in New Brunswick say an incident involving 62
inmates was not a riot.

The prisoners refused to return to their cells Thursday afternoon, demanding to
know when inmates would be released from a segregated area of the Atlantic
Institution in Renous.

They covered prison barriers with blankets and set small fires on three of the
prison's four ranges. The warden read the Riot Act, and the emergency response
team used five rounds of tear gas.

The maximum-security prison was under control eight hours later.

"It was not a riot; it was just a disturbance, which happens from time to time
in a maximum-security institution," said Corrections Canada spokesman Andre
Veniot.

Veniot said federal legislation requires the prison to read the Riot Act when
inmates do not return to their cells.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              710 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               February 26, 2001

RIOT-FEAR COPS WANT BOOZE BAN

BYLINE: NICK WEBSTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 452 words


JPs refuse crackdown on Maine Road pubs




POLICE who fear a full-scale riot at Manchester City's next home game want to
set up a booze exclusion zone around Maine Road.  But magistrates have for now
blocked the legal move by officers to close 18 pubs and off-licences - saying
they will have to wait until closer to the match on Saturday.

Police believe fans' frustration at the threat of dropping out of the
Premiership could trigger clashes with rival supporters and police. The game
against Southampton has now been reclassified as having a higher chance of
trouble.  The claims made in court were angrily dismissed today by City's chief
operating officer Chris Bird, who defended the record of the club's supporters
and planned to talk with Greater Manchester Police later today.

The row flared after police appealed to magistrates to close pubs and
off-licences near the Maine Road ground for 12 hours between 7am and 7pm on
Saturday.  Insp Darrell Butterworth said extreme measures were needed to avert a
riot - and fellow officers had been forced to deal with riot situations at
City's last two home games.

Insp Butterworth applied for a ban under Section 188 of the Licensing Act 1964
if a riot or tumult is happening or expected to happen.'' He told the court:
There have been riots. We will show that a riot and a tumult has occurred at the
last two matches.''
         But the bench refused on the grounds the legislation could only be
used when the threat of disorder was more immediate.
    Moss Side-based Insp John Graves, who supervises at all football matches at
Maine Road, told the M.E.N. his officers had faced increasing hostility, being
kicked and attacked with bottles and wooden stakes in recent weeks - and facing
1,500 fans baying'' for blood at the Coventry match last month.
    But City executive Mr Bird said police told the club they were applying for
the ban because pubs had been flouting drink regulations on match days.    City
fans, he said, had an exemplary'' record for behaviour in and around Maine
Road.
     Dawn Taylor, licensee of the Sherwood Inn in Claremont Road, said she was
glad police had failed in the bid - but was happy to discuss the situation any
time they wished.
     We're always happy to co-operate with the police,'' she said.  I've never
had any problems here.''

 Steve Lungley, landlord of The Parkside Hotel, said: I've been running this
pub since just before the season started and we have had no trouble whatsoever.
We were stunned about this. Closing would cost me about GBP 5,000 in takings -
and match days help tide me over the quieter days.''


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STUNNED by police move . . . landlord Steve Lungley and his wife Julie
outside The Parkside pub; ANGRY . . . Chris Bird; Holly; Lawrence

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News


                              711 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Oxford Mail

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Witney man helped train extras as riot police in latest Jason Bourne movie

BYLINE: Luke Sproule

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


WHEN all hell breaks loose in a dramatic riot in the latest Jason Bourne movie
most viewers will not know there is an Oxfordshire man behind the on-screen
violence.

Former paratrooper Paul Biddiss spent last summer in Tenerife training Spanish
extras to act as riot police in Jason Bourne, the fifth film in the Bourne
series.

The married dad-of-five from Witney also worked with the film's star Matt Damon,
with the pair spending time in the gym together during filming.

Mr Biddiss, who served in the Parachute Regiment for 24 years before leaving as
a sergeant in December 2012, began his career in film after giving advice to
George Clooney for a battle scene in The Monuments Men.

Most recently he was recruited for Jason Bourne to provide expertise on riots in
Greece.

The Witney resident said: "I had to co-ordinate the riot and give advice on what
guys were doing in different situations.

"The extras played the role perfectly.

"There was a write-up of the film in the Los Angeles Times from a journalist who
had been in the Greek riots and he said it was the most realistic depiction he
had seen on the big screen.

"I have been involved in riots in Northern Ireland and that is what I was able
to bring into it."

Before heading to work on Jason Bourne Mr Biddiss had worked on BBC One's
historical drama War and Peace, which aired at the start of the year.

He said his attention to detail allowed him to make the switch from the
Napoleonic era to modern times.

The 47-year-old said: "It is 60 per cent research and the remainder is your own
experience.

"I did my research on the Greek riots, both the riot police and the riots
themselves.

"You build it up from a very simple lesson in how to conduct something and
learning some Greek phrases to putting the full riots on.

"It can be tricky though, I have just finished another film called the Death of
Stalin.

"Sometimes the Government wants to keep things secret and that makes research
more difficult."

Mr Biddiss has also worked on Mission Impossible Rogue Nation and Second World
War action drama Fury, which featured Brad Pitt.

He is currently working on superhero film Justice League which is due for
release next year.

He said: "When you are training people who have a different language you have to
get your information across.

"But after two or three days they know what I am after and I can train them.

"They are all from an extras company and they go to a psychological assessment
because we cannot afford someone to just go off on one during a riot scene."

So far Mr Biddiss' time as a military advisor has seen him work with Hollywood
stars and travel the globe working on some of the biggest box office
blockbusters.

But in spite of his success he has no desire to get in front of the camera.

He said: "They wanted me to be in Jason Bourne but I said no.

"I do not enjoy that side of it, it is better not to.

"You need to be on the director's shoulders."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              712 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Comment: Most people prefer a better bargaining tool than havoc: From the
Gloucestershire cheese riots on, wrongly ascribing motives to rioters only
intensifies their sense of impotence

BYLINE: Zoe Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 923 words


The anniversary of last year's riots has been a muted affair, both overshadowed
and made a little incomprehensible by the unforced togetherness of the Olympics.
To look now at the nation's youth - striving for excellence in every task,
whether it's jumping over an impossible beam or giving you directions to the
tube - you wouldn't believe the way they were characterised last August, feral
and unruly (like all crowds) but with a new twist of avarice.

In 2011, all they were interested in was trainers; in 2012, all they're
interested in is running. And part of this, of course, is that there's no
texture in a mainstream narrative: the dominant one wins. Equally, there's not
much nuance of mood in a crowd, it's either exceedingly happy or exceedingly
angry. This national turnaround is unsurprising.

I suppose it's somewhat surprising that the debate never moved on - it started
off with one camp saying this is what happens when inequality is high, and the
other saying it was "pure criminality", and that is roughly where it's remained.
I went to a meeting recently about it, in which a Conservative whom I believe
I'm not supposed to name was grinding on about poor parenting. I said that it
was hard to be a very hands-on parent when you had two jobs, and it was hard to
persuade your kids to stay at home if it was cramped or squalid; any
conversation about parenting and its place in the riots had to include a
discussion about wages and one about rent. "I don't want this to get too
ideological," he said. "No," said the chair, "we're trying to move away from old
arguments." Yeah. Because the thing with poverty is that it's old, ergo
monumentally tedious, not just to live with, also to talk about.

There's still too much heat in the debate, but if we maintain these opposing
positions, by the time we've cooled down we'll be more immovable than ever (I
was working up a blacksmithing metaphor, but it's way too complicated). I
suggest a longer view. This year isn't just the first anniversary of last year's
riots, it's also the 200th anniversary of the Luddite machine-wrecking riot.
Eric Hobsbawm called it "collective bargaining by riot", which was precisely
correct of people who deliberately broke looms, but is broadly correct of all
riots. How do large groups of people, with no power other than their numbers,
assert themselves? By reminding the world of how much damage they could do.

Riots and the responses to them observe some broad rules. People who aren't food
rioters are written off as spoilt and indolent, the logic being that if you will
destroy the fabric of society when you're not even hungry, you must have reached
a state of depravity that only excess can create (here, the Luddites and last
year's rioters have something beyond a birthday in common - they were both
widely described as people who were made greedy by already having too much).

Where it is a food riot, there's always an attempt to dismiss it with ad hominem
attacks on an unnamed hardcore, whether in Yemen in 2007 or in the
Gloucestershire cheese riots of 1766 - a local paper reported on that second
event: "(In the area live) a great number of desolate, idle fellows, that
delight more in drinking than work: four of these sort of people being assembled
together at Pitchcomb feast, and there getting drunk, were the first who kindled
the flame of disturbance here; these incendiaries communicating their mad
resolutions to others." Most people aren't hungry, in other words - they are
just fermented by (curiously persuasive) workshy drunkards. It's a line of
attack I can easily imagine Iain Duncan Smith using.

History - as opposed to immediate chronicling - favours the political or
ideological riot over the food riot, which is irrational, since there can be no
more political statement than to protest your hunger, or your powerlessness.

More than that, history favours the riot that destroyed the status quo - so last
year's riots in Egypt and Tunisia were part of the Arab spring, while the food
riots in Bangladesh, Cameroon and Indonesia were so fast-forgotten that they
didn't get a name. All of that unrest sprang from the same cause: massive
increases in the cost of staples. As Christian Parenti wrote: "The initial
trouble was traceable, at least in part, to the price of that loaf of bread."
But not all of it was ascribed the same nobility.

Rightwing opinion always tries to bring the riots back to a question of moral
compass - why don't the young know right from wrong? How can we teach them right
from wrong? Yet there has never been any such thing as a riot that was entirely
noble, nor one that was comprised entirely of bad seeds; there are only riots
that became movements, and riots that achieved nothing, and could be written off
in retrospect. We're not quite at "retrospect" yet with 2011 - to write off a
riot prematurely merely intensifies the perception of impotence that it was
expressing in the first place.

More importantly, this question we're stalling on - do these rioters have a real
grievance, or are they just bad people? - is irrelevant. Generally, people
prefer it when they have a better bargaining tool than havoc. If enough people
feel that destruction is their only leverage, it doesn't really matter if
they're bad people, or their parents are useless. There are bad people and
useless parents at every price point. They will continue to destroy until they
perceive their leverage to be better - the question is what to do about that. We
can't hold an Olympics every year.

Twitter: @zoesqwilliams

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

Film Screening: Riot from Wrong (Washington, D.C.)

LENGTH: 178  words

DATELINE: New York


Open Society Foundations has issued the following news release:

Join us for a screening of Riot from Wrong, an award-winning documentary about
the 2011 London riots triggered by the police shooting of a young man of color.
The film, which explores how youth activists and the police coped with the
aftermath, resonates with the events unfolding in Ferguson, Missouri, today.

Riot from Wrong chronicles the shooting death of 29-year-old Mark Duggan by
police in North Tottenham, London, in the summer of 2011. Duggan was of mixed
race, and his death sparked peaceful protest and civil unrest among community
members, which spread across London.

After the film, stay with us for a performance by Karega Bailey and a panel
discussion with D.C.- and London-based youth activists and community leaders who
will consider the root causes of civil unrest, including racial profiling, and
possible solutions to youth exclusion and racial tensions at home and abroad.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              715 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 8, 2014 Monday

Film Screening: Riot from Wrong (St. Louis)

LENGTH: 169  words

DATELINE: New York


Open Society Foundations has issued the following news release:

Join us for the U.S. premiere of Riot from Wrong, an award-winning documentary
about the 2011 London riots triggered by the police shooting of a young man of
color. The film, which explores how youth activists and the police coped with
the aftermath, resonates with the events unfolding in Ferguson, Missouri, today.

Riot from Wrong chronicles the shooting death of 29-year-old Mark Duggan by
police in North Tottenham, London, in the summer of 2011. Duggan was of mixed
race, and his death sparked peaceful protest and civil unrest among community
members, which spread across London.

After the film, join us for a panel discussion with youth activists and
community leaders who will consider the root causes of civil unrest, including
racial profiling, and possible solutions to youth exclusion and racial tensions
at home and abroad.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Riot victims are kept waiting for their emergency payouts

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 343 words


'Residents left "destitute" by the Totteham Riots are still waiting for
emergency payouts from government and insurers, three months after the chaos.

Some of the innocent victims from the August riots challenged Home Office
minister James Brokenshire over the delays during a radio debate at St Mary's
Church in Lansdowne Road, Tottenham, on Monday.



Several residents said they had lodged claims under the Riot Damages Act and
simply heard nothing.

During the BBC Radio 5 Live debate, Omar Malik, who lived above the Carpetright
store in the River Heights flats in High Road, said: "It seems to me that you'd
made these promises and you actually didn't put the infrastructure in to deal
with the volume of claims that were involved. We lost everything Mr Brokenshire,
and we're still kept waiting and kept in limbo."

Burcin Akbasak, another former River Heights resident, said the authorities had
even misplaced evidence of her lost items.

A case worker for Tottenham MP David Lammy said of the "30 or 40" residents they
are helping, "only one of them that we know so far has been paid out, and all of
them have had significant problems with delay, with lost paperwork".

Mr Brokenshire said he was unaware of the problems, adding: "I very much want to
make sure that claims are processed speedily and effectively." He promised
people will be compensated "very, very shortly".

But Mr Lammy hit back: "You fall on hard times, you expect help."

Traders are still awaiting payments via the High Street Fund, whose
administrator Sir William Castell initially promised payments of up to £2,000
"within a matter of days". It has so far donated just a third of its £4million.

Steve Moore, owner of Paradise Gems in High Road, Tottenham, that was burnt to
the ground, said: "I have heard nothing back. I don't even know whether I'll be
getting any money at all. I got paid out by my insurance company, but it's an
ongoing situation."

A spokeswoman for the fund denied any payments were "sitting unprocessed" and
said in many cases "it is very hard to get all the details clarified".

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              717 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                November 4, 2011

Riots panel take views from the Tottenham community

BYLINE: Bruce Thain

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 190 words


AN INVESTIGATION into the causes of the August riots took views from the people
of Tottenham last night.

The independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel, held the meeting at the
Bernie Grant centre in Tottenham with more than 200 people present.

The panel heard from people affected by the summer disorder and took views on
the cause of the Tottenham riots and what can prevent them from happening again.

There were many areas covered including education and investment in young
people, relations between the public and police and many others.

A big issue brought up was the power of the community within Tottenham and what
is being done on a grassroots level in the area.

Chairman of the panel Darra Singh said to the meeting: "I'm really impressed
with Tottenham and the community spirit seen here."

The panel will deliver an interim report at the end of this month; with the
final report will be delivered to the Prime Minister in March next year.

To put forward your points and ideas to the panel young can email
riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk

For more information about the panel, visit www.riotspanel.independent.gov.uk.

More to follow.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              718 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          What the Papers Say (Russia)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

OPPOSITION ACCUSED OF PENCHANT FOR RIOTS

BYLINE: Andrei Kozenko

SECTION: PRESS EXTRACTS; No. 238

LENGTH: 269 words



HIGHLIGHT: VLADISLAV SURKOV PINNED THE BLAME FOR MANEZH SQUARE AND EVROPEISKY
MALL RIOTS ON LIBERAL OPPOSITION; Blame for recent riots in Moscow is pinned on
liberal opposition.


The authorities blame liberal opposition for the recent riots in Manezh Square
and in front of Evropeisky shopping mall. "These alleged liberals aspire to make
unsanctioned protests fashionable, and Nazis and other creeps follow in their
wake. Consider the date, December 11... it is certainly a derivative from 31,
the day when the liberals organize their actions," said Senior Deputy Director
of the Presidential Administration Vladislav Surkov. The functionary added that
there was nothing that could justify Yegor Sviridov's murder. "The murderers
ought to be locked up... The guys from the Caucasus who come here to join gangs
and open up on our kids, they will be taken care of," said Surkov.

Commenting on the riots in central Moscow, Premier Putin was quite critical of
the opposition as well and urged it "to go out and tackle the radicals" on its
own.

"I understand Surkov," said Eduard Limonov, one of the organizers of protests in
Triumfalnaya Square. "People are getting unruly, and that makes Surkov mad."

"Rioting is provoked by lawlessness and corruption," said Ilya Yashin of the
Solidarity movement. "Those in the Kremlin are blind. They are ready to pin the
blame for absolutely everything on liberals."

"Harsh treatment of trouble-makers at this point will bring down the level of
violent protests. Not right away, of course," said Galina Kozhevnikova of the
Human Rights Center Sova. "Tension will keep escalating otherwise. It was
football fans last time. Next time, it might be gangs from the Caucasus that do
not obey their respective diasporas."

Source: Kommersant, No 234, December 17, 2010, p. 5

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ORIGINAL-LANGUAGE: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 Agency WPS
                              All Rights Reserved


                              719 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Reading the riots: Methodology: Body of evidence: 270 interviews, 1.3m words,
2.5m tweets: Intricate study drew on analysis of 1967 US riots

BYLINE: Paul Lewis and Tim Newburn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 852 words


Reading the Riots is the only research study into the causes and consequences of
the summer riots involving interviews with large numbers of people who actually
took part in the disorder. A project run jointly by the Guardian and the London
School of Economics (LSE), the aim was to produce evidence-based social research
that would help explain why the rioting spread across England.

The research was inspired by a study of the Detroit riots in 1967 involving a
collaboration between the Detroit Free Press newspaper and the University of
Michigan's Institute for Social Research. The Detroit project, which challenged
some of the assumptions about the cause of the unrest in the city, used
quantitative research techniques - multiple-choice questionnaires - to compare
populations that rioted with others that did not.

But it was decided that a qualitative framework - involving in-depth,
free-flowing interviews with rioters - would be the most appropriate method of
studying the summer disturbances in England.

The first phase of Reading the Riots was completed in three months using
confidential interviews with hundreds of people directly involved in the riots.
It also involved a separate analysis, by academics at Manchester University, of
a database of more than 2.5m riot-related tweets.

The second phase - to be completed early next year - will involve interviews
with police, court officials and judges and a series of community-based debates.

In September we advertised on the Guardian website for researchers with skills
in interviewing and good links with riot-affected communities. More than 450
people from across the country applied. A team of 30 was selected and trained
with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society
Foundations. They spent October interviewing people who had been involved in the
riots in six cities: London, Liverpool, Birmingham, Nottingham, Salford and
Manchester.

Each researcher was given a topic guide covering the major themes of their
interviews. They were asked to find out how people first heard about the riots,
how they became involved, how they communicated, what they did, why they thought
the riots stopped and how they felt about their actions now.

The questions were deliberately neutral and researchers were discouraged from
asking leading questions. Each interview tended to last at least 45 minutes and
allowed for an extended discussion between interviewer and respondent, providing
nuanced first-person accounts of people's experiences and perspectives.

Basic demographic data was collected about the interviewees, including where
they lived, their age and ethnicity, educational qualifications, previous
criminal history and whether they worked. They were also asked a series of
survey-style questions, on topics ranging from their thoughts on the riots to
their attitudes towards police.

We wrote to 1,000 people convicted during the riots and offered them the
opportunity to take part in the study. Researchers also visited their homes. But
primarily, local contacts were used to find people who were involved in the
riots but had not been arrested. After being promised anonymity, a surprising
number agreed to take part, often because they wanted their story to be heard.

Interviews were held in various locations, such as people's own homes, youth
clubs, cafes and fast-food restaurants. The Ministry of Justice gave Reading the
Riots access to prisons, enabling interviews with about 13 people convicted for
their involvement in the riots. But a large majority of the 270 people
interviewed for the project had not been arrested.

All interviews were recorded, transcribed and stored in a database. In total,
Reading the Riots collated more than 1.3m words of first-person accounts from
rioters. Rigour in the analytical phase - mostly undertaken in November - was
vital.

Once all the data was collected, five research analysts recruited by the LSE
began the complex task of analysing the lengthy transcripts in search of themes.
The process began with an analyst reading a transcript to get an overview. After
several readings, each transcript was then coded so that particular themes could
be identified and evidenced.

A list of coding labels was produced - essentially themes and sub-themes
appearing in the interviews - and these were reviewed by the research team on a
regular basis. The links and relationships between dozens of themes and
sub-themes such as government injustice, riot motivation, police, community, and
the role of social media, were constantly updated, providing an ever more
detailed picture of why the riots happened.

The relationships between the themes were recorded and displayed on a thematic
map document, allowing the team to see the larger, overall picture as a cohesive
set of findings began to emerge.

The analysis that has gone into producing these Reading the Riots findings is a
first attempt; transcripts will be subject to more advanced analysis in the
weeks and months to come.

Captions:

The Ministry of Justice granted access for 13 interviews with people jailed for
their involvement in the riots

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              720 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

How the newspapers headlined the London riots

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 243 words

ABSTRACT

National papers united in their front page coverage of the rioting in Britain's
capital city. By Roy Greenslade

FULL TEXT

Today's national newspaper front pages have found a variety of ways to headline
the riots across London. Without exception, all feature images of burning
buildings.

The Daily Telegraph's "Rule of the mob" was echoed by The Independent's "Mob
rule" and The Times's "Mobs rule as police surrender the streets."

The Sun went for a single word "Anarchy" while the Daily Mail preferred "The
anarchy spreads" and Metro was rather similar with "Riots: the madness spreads."
The Daily Mirror chose "Yob rule."

All were bettered by the Daily Star's excellent "Anarchy in the UK". That
deserved a headline-of-the-day award.

The Daily Express went for a more personalised line: "Flaming morons". And The
Guardian was altogether more pedestrian, but less slanted than its rivals, with
"The battle for London".

Elsewhere, the Belfast Telegraph - a paper that has covered many a riot down the
years - ran a page one with the headline "London blitzed."

The Yorkshire Post devoted most of its front page to the riots, "PM flies home
to 'war zone'", while The Scotsman - which was probably preparing to carry a
picture of the current Edinburgh festival - published a full-page image of a
riot scene with the headline "London under siege as mobs roam streets."

But what of London's local papers? How did they manage to cover riots? More on
that in a moment

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              721 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 21, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

It's time police got back to basics;
Report on the Cronulla riots

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 456 words


FIRST there was the issue of how the report on the Cronulla riots was handled,
then there is the report itself. Norm Hazzard's inquiry into the police response
to the riots hints at a force which has been too busy meeting the needs of its
political masters to learn from experience.

The lessons were there to be learned. The Macquarie Fields riots early last year
exposed shortcomings in the police response to rioting. Some were minor but
telling - police were unable to leave the front line to get a drink of water.
Others, though, were systemic problems which hampered an effective response.
Senior police lacked the training and experience to deal effectively with large
public disturbances which called for a co-ordinated, almost military response.
By the middle of last year, the shortcomings had been identified.

Yet when the even more serious Cronulla riots broke out five months later,
police were still unprepared. Command systems were still not up to scratch:
during the two days of the Cronulla riots it was not clear who was in charge of
the operation to restore order. The public order and riot squad, which had been
approved after Macquarie Fields, did not begin operations until two months after
calm had returned to the Sutherland Shire.

Unlike Macquarie Fields, which was a quick reaction to a fatal police pursuit,
there was ample warning of trouble brewing at Cronulla. The incident that
sparked the eventual conflagration - a fight between Caucasian and Middle
Eastern males on December 4 - was discussed and amplified for a week on air and
in newspapers. About 270,000 mobile text messages were sent as each side in the
conflict readied support. Police were present in sufficient numbers on the
morning of the riot but, even so, as the situation degenerated inadequacies
appeared.

Mr Hazzard also examines the operational decisions made as events unfolded. He
finds, on the whole, that police in all the circumstances played a commendable
role. Given the controversy over the way police handled the revenge convoys
after the Cronulla riot on December 11, that is reassuring, as far as it goes.
Final judgement, however, must await the release of a second report by two
former police commanders on the operations of Strike Force Enoggera, which
investigated the riot and revenge attacks.

As the row over the release of the report has shown, the NSW police force is the
ball in a high-intensity political game. Distracted by the demands of
politicians who want to look tough, it loses focus on vital operational needs.
The shortcomings of its response at Cronulla are the result. It is time for the
Government to look beyond its own political needs and allow police the time and
resources to improve services where it counts.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              722 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                              May 13, 2016 Friday

Daily Record staff receives 11 awards for journalistic excellence

BYLINE: Daily Record Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385  words


The Daily Record's staff has received 11 awards from the Maryland Delaware
District of Columbia Press Association for excellence in journalism for 2015.

The awards were presented at the MDDC's annual editorial awards luncheon Friday
at the BWI Westin Hotel.

The Daily Record received a first place prize for a Website of General
Excellence, for its website, thedailyrecord.com.

The newspaper's staffers received six first-place prizes:

Daniel Leaderman, in business reporting, for "Maryland lobbying: Behind the
Access Coalition. " Maximilian Franz, for best photo gallery, for images from
the riots in Baltimore. Danny Jacobs, in local government reporting, for "Police
say injury claims from riots caused by lack of gear, poor tactics. " Bryan P.
Sears, in social media reporting, for his coverage of the State House on
Twitter. Dan Karlin, in Page One design, for his front page, "Troubled city
seeks answers. " Maximilian Franz, in general news photography, for "Troubled
city seeks answers. "

The newspaper's staffers received six second-place awards:

Lauren Kirkwood, in medical/science reporting, for "Nurses at law. " Adam Bednar
and Anamika Roy, for continuing coverage of struggling businesses after the
riots:  After the Baltimore riots, blessings and heartache | Gray case, protests
cast spotlight on Baltimore's image | Businesses close early, soldier on in face
of protests | Harmed by riots, small businesses now face a curfew | Businesses
face insurance questions after riot | As cancellations mount, the economic
ripples spread | Home sellers, Realtors fret about riot's impact on market |
Recovery program reaches more than 200 Baltimore businesses | Baltimore recovery
funds require businesses to pledge not to sue | Riots, crime present challenges
to Baltimore's economy | Lottery: Tickets stolen during riots may have been
cashed | Eutaw Street tailor suited up and stronger after riots | Baltimore's
Mary Harvin Center rises as symbol of recovery Adam Bednar, Bryan P. Sears and
Jason Whong, in best use of interactive media, for "Under Armour's audacious bet
on Port Covington. " Bryan P. Sears, in online commentary or blog, for the Eye
on Annapolis blog.

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              723 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               December 11, 2012

Review of Riot Damages Act delayed

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 269  words


Reform of legalisation covering compensation for riot damage has stalled, the
London Assembly Budget and Performance Committee were told last week.

Nearly seventeen months after the Home Office began its review of the Riot
(Damages) Act 1886 after last Augusts riots, the department is now considering
appointing an independent person to consult on the legislation changes.

The Director of Finance and Strategy Directorate for the Home Office Crime and
Policing Group, Stephen Webb, told the Committee that discussions about
reforming the Act have produced a range of contradictory views.

He said police forces argue they shouldn't have to pay compensation for riots,
while the insurance industry and others maintain that scrapping the act would
penalise poor areas where alternative cover would be hard to find.

Speaking at the Committee's meeting to review progress on implementing
recommendations from its report into recovering from the 2011 riots, Mr Webb
said ministers were looking at who should be responsible for claims under the
Act and when delays in getting compensation to victims occur.

John Biggs AM, Chair of the Budget and Performance Committee said:"It is
disappointing to hear that nearly a year-and-a-half after problems with the Riot
Damages Act were identified the Home Office is still some way from concluding
its review.

"While this is an ancient and complicated piece of legislation it has real
consequences for people whose lives are turned upside down by serious civil
disturbances.

"It should not be beyond the wit of government to bring forward proposals to
simplify how compensation is claimed.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              724 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                 April 10, 2012

Untold stories sought for children's riot-based play

BYLINE: Hermione Wright

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 356  words


Untold stories from children in the borough are being sought to provide the
backbone for a new play about the London riots.

The innovative play, called Sticks and Stones, will see the riots through the
eyes of young people in a bid to provide a response to the report from the Riots
, Communities and Victims Panel.

The play, which is due to run from September, aims to discover what young people
believe caused the August disorder and find out if they think it will happen
again.

The final post-riot report, which came from the now disbanded panel on March 28,
said that young people feel "demonised" and "blamed" for the riots.

Instead, the Polka Theatre group, which is based in Wimbledon, wants to provide
a chance for young people in Haringey and the rest of the UK to have their own
say on what happened.

Jonathan Lloyd, who is the artistic director for Polka Theatre, said: "In the
many debates and discussions following last summer's riots, the voices of
children and young people barely registered.

"We want to make them part of a bigger, national conversation about what
happened, and why."

The theatre group would like to hear what children would change about society to
prevent the riots from happening again.

Organisers are keen to discover what children believe adults do not understand
about being young.

They would also like to find out what makes each of the contributors happy and
angry, as well as what they would like to achieve in life.

Polka has commissioned playwright Ali Taylor, from Finsbury Park, to talk to
children and young people in London, Birmingham, Nottingham and Bristol about
their memories.

He said: "It is a chance to look at it in from the children's perspectives and
to hear the authentic voices of people living in Haringey.

"I am keen to hear from young people from Haringey and some of the areas that
are affected by the riots."

All memories will be used anonymously in the play, which is due to run at the
Polka Theatre in Wimbledon from September.

The play is aimed at nine to 13-year-olds, but children of any age can send in
their memories.

To contribute, send an email to sticksandstones@polkatheatre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              725 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Riots appeal judges to review BBC news coverage

BYLINE: Owen Bowcottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 444 words

ABSTRACT

Justices to look at TV broadcasts of riots before weighing up whether sentences
for 10 people were excessive

FULL TEXT

Three appeal court judges are to view BBC television news coverage of the summer
riots before they decide whether any of the sentences handed down were
excessive.

Their decision to review the broadcasts was announced as they began considering
the first cases to come before the court since the August disturbances.

Nine men and one woman are appealing against what their lawyers allege was the
"manifestly excessive" length of their custodial sentences. None are challenging
their convictions.

Only three of the appellants, Lorriane McGrane, Enrico Vanasco and Hassan
Koyuncu, appeared in court.

Two of the men, Jordan Blackshaw from Northwich and Perry Sutcliffe from
Warrington, had posted notices on Facebook inviting people to participate in
riots in their home towns. Both received four years in prison.

Gareth Roberts, representing Blackshaw, said the judge imposing the sentence
"had failed to consider the leading authorities in relation to riot sentences
[set] following the Bradford riots [in 2001] where sentences of four years were
given to those carrying crossbows and wielding scaffolding poles."

But the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, implied that the appeal court viewed
this summer's disturbances as more serious because they were far more
widespread.

"[The Bradford cases] are not guideline cases," he said. "The Bradford riots
were confined to Bradford. One of our concerns is that these were nationwide. At
the moment we are inclined to consider that we should take that into
consideration."

On reviewing television news, Judge explained that the judges said that they
were planning only to watch material that had already been broadcast. Because
they have not yet seen it, they would not be able to return any judgments on
Tuesday.

Among the ten cases before them is that of Stephen Carter who received 16 months
in prison for picking up a bag of clothes hidden in bushes during Manchester's
riots. The clothes had been looted from nearby shops.

He had committed the offence, his counsel, Helen Richardson said, within the
sight of police officers. Sentencing for offences of dishonesty were
"disproportionately enhanced," she told the court. "The premium added for
offences of dishonesty [as opposed to violence] was too high in the
circumstances."

Another appellant, David Beswick, is appealing against his sentence arguing that
it was too high. He had been caught with a TV in his car. He told the police at
the time that if his vehicle had not run out of petrol, it "might have been a
different story".

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              726 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I would have taken part in many historical riots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 389 words


AH, fame at last! A mention in Neil White's column.

Mr White claims that England's history of riots shows that we are not now a
green and pleasant land.

Of course, England like all other countries has a turbulent history. But that
does not take away from the fact that, generally speaking, we now live in such a
land, except perhaps for some inner city areas.

There is a difference between a riot with mindless criminality and an uprising
which has a real reason. Modern examples are in Egypt, Libya and Syria.

Mr White mentions the following "riots" in England: May Day Riots in 1517, the
Bawdy House Riots in 1668, the Gordon Riots of 1780, the Luddites in
Nottinghamshire and the Luton Peace Day Riots in 1919.

As Mr White puts it, the first was a riot on May Day 1517 but really it was an
uprising of poverty stricken English folk against wealthy foreign merchants and
bankers flaunting their wealth. Yes, it was an uprising against foreigners, not
an excuse for mindless criminality. The 1668 Bawdy House uprisings were
conducted by young men who had a ritual of attacking brothels on Shrove
Tuesdays. These acts were described in some of the popular literature of the
time as "a sign of the virtue of young Londoners".

This was, again, not a riot without a cause.

The infamous Gordon Riots of 1780 were when thousands of Protestants rioted
against the laws to give more freedom to Catholics.

It does seem as if this was an excuse for looting and general rioting.

The Luddite uprising in Nottinghamshire was brought about by the Industrial
Revolution. Many textile artisans were being left without work by mechanised
looms. The Luddites smashed many of the mechanical looms and who could blame
them? After the end of the Great War, many servicemen came home to find no work,
many were disabled and the land fit for heroes did not exist.

In Luton, they really had their noses rubbed in it when they saw the Mayor and
other dignitaries, who had not been to war, spending vast sums of money on a
peace celebration while they faced poverty. As a result there was an uprising of
ex-servicemen. Yes, they did some looting - for food and things they really
needed.

Neil White suggested I might like to have been around for the 1517 uprising.

In fact, I would have happily taken part in any of them, apart from the Gordon
Riots.

Granville V Stone Swanwick

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2011 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                              727 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                            Drop in 12.30am Edition

No riot squad before January - RACE RIOT: RETRIBUTION

BYLINE: Kara Lawrence

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 293  words


A FULL-time police riot squad will become operational in January -- but it will
be too late to deal with an anticipated running battle in Sydney's beachside
suburbs in coming weeks.

Police will also be able to ban alcohol for limited periods in specific
locations under recommendations by senior officers in the wake of the Cronulla
riots.

The Daily Telegraph understands Police Commissioner Ken Moroney has already
raised alcohol prohibition powers with Premier Morris Iemma, who is open to any
measures which will prevent a repeat of Sunday's rampage.

The powers would be used along the same lines as those during the 2000 Olympics.

The proposed alcohol ban was revealed as police defended their response to the
throng of 5000 who rioted at Cronulla, roaming the streets drinking and chanting
racist incitements to violence.

Asked yesterday if he had underestimated the degree of anger in Cronulla, Mr
Moroney said: ''I reject that proposition. The level of preparation that went in
to last weekend was appropriate to the circumstances.''

Mr Moroney revealed at the parliamentary inquiry into the Macquarie Fields riots
last week that a 45-member police riot squad would become operational at the end
of December.

Cronulla locals criticised what they called a ''softly-softly'' approach by
police.

Youths wandered with bottles of beer in alcohol-free zones without facing any
police action.

However, officers on the ground and the Police Association have defended the
tactics, saying they believed they were appropriate.

One police source said if officers had become heavy-handed with the crowd it
would have caused the mob to turn against police, making the situation even
uglier.

Instead, police had focused on picking out the hardcore offenders and arresting
them.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              728 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

SP leader to donate 20 bigha land to build houses for riot victims

BYLINE: Ramendra Singh

LENGTH: 264  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Samajwadi Party candidate from Kairana, Nahid Hasan, has announced donation of
20 bighas land owned by him to build houses for the victims of Muzaffarnagar
riots.

Hasan, son of sitting Kairana MP Tabassum Hasan, laid the foundation stone
Saturday at the site which is a few km away from Kairana and near the Malakpur
relief camp.

Hasan said he was flooded with applications from the riot victims ever since he
announced his plan to build houses for them. Spread across 18,000 sq m area, the
houses will be given to those riots-affected persons who need them most.

"I have received over 10,000 requests from the riot-affected people who need a
house. It is my own land which I have donated and the committee, which will
include representatives of some NGOs, will chalk out the specifics related to
the construction and allotment," Hasan said, adding the construction work will
start in a week's time.

He claimed that while the state government was doing whatever it can for the
victims, he decided to do it on a personal level because construction of the
houses needs to be done quickly.

Hasan said the houses will be built with the help of Zakat Foundation of India
(ZFI) and some other NGOs.

ZFI president Syed Zafar Mahmood said Hasan has given his in-principle approval
to use his 20 bigha land to build houses for the victims.

Mahmood had recently written a letter to the Election Commission seeking
cancellation of Samajwadi Party's registration under Representation of the
People Act for failing to bear allegiance to the constitutional principles of
socialism, secularism and democracy.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              729 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday

Transport companies in China's Urumqi receive riot damage compensation

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Public Transportation Companies Receive 5 Million Yuan Urumqi Riot Damage
Compensation"]

URUMQI, Aug. 26 (Xinhua) - Public transportation companies in Urumqi have
received 5.25 million yuan (768,668 US dollars) in compensation for buses burned
or damaged in the July 5 riot in the city that left 197 people dead and more
than 1,600 others injured, local authorities said Wednesday.

The money was to repair the 267 buses damaged in the riot, said a spokesperson
with the office set up to deal with issues arising from the riot.

"We contacted repair shops immediately after the riot and all of our 78 damaged
buses were back on the road within a week," said Han Fudong, technology
department chief of the Urumqi Municipal Public Transportation Group Ltd, one of
the city's three major bus operators.

Nearly all of the city's 2,500 buses are now back in operation.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0824 gmt 26 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              730 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           September 27, 2009 Sunday

India:Families of riot victims allege discrimination

LENGTH: 314  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Oct. 27 -- Ludhiana--The Sarvhind Sikh Parivar Punarvas Committee, a
body working for the welfare and rehabilitation of riot-affected sikh families,
has accused the state government of adopting a "pick and choose" policy for
providing relief to families of the riot victims.DP Singh, president of the
committee, said under the One Time Settlement (OTS) Scheme-2009, which was
started by the Punjab Financial Corporation, the relief was being provided to
ex-servicemen, "dharmi faujis" and transport sector, while the riot-affected
sikh families were ignored with regard to settlement of debts.He said a large
number of riot victims had availed financial assistance from the PFC for setting
up small-scale industries and other business activities. "Most of them have
suffered losses due to various reasons," he added.Singh said all riot-affected
sikh families should be treated equally.The state government should direct the
PFC to treat all defaulters at par and there should be no discrimination in the
settlement of loans, which were found defaulted.Citing pathetic financial
condition of many riot-affected sikh families in various parts of the state, he
urged Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal to conduct a comprehensive survey for
identification of such families and if it was established that they were not
wilful defaulters, their loans up to an amount of Rs 2 lakh be remitted.The
Punjab government should also ensure that ex-gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh for each
riot-affected family, announced by the UPA government in 2006, was given to
right persons."Rather the state government should appropriately take up the
matter with the Centre for providing more relief to families of the riot
victims."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              731 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 20, 2014 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

'Modi's silence on riots makes him suspect'

BYLINE: Syed Rizwanullah TNN

SECTION: TIMES STATE

LENGTH: 449 words


Aurangabad: Congress on Saturday slammed Narendra Modi for his 'silence' and
'unapologetic' attitude towards the Gujarat riots,even as the BJP's prime
ministerial candidate,in a recent interview,rejected the view that he had
remained silent on the issue.Congress leader and Union health minister Ghulam
Nabi Azad,however,refrained from directly blaming Modi for the February 2002
communal violence in his state,saying,"No one says that Narendra Modi engineered
the Gujarat riots.It's his silence that makes him a suspect.'' Azad,who was in
the city to campaign for party candidate Nitin Patil,said,"If he (Modi) was not
involved,he should have said he has not done anything wrong.If people still feel
so,he should have apologised." Referring to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots,the
Congress leader said that Rajiv Gandhi went around in Delhi to ensure peace and
stop riots while his mother's body lay at home and delayed the last rites."No
chief minister can engineer riots,we know.But Modi didn't come out to control
the riots while people were getting killed," Azad said while replying to a
question whether Modi had become liberal."If Modi feels that he had not done
anything wrong,why doesn't he say so?" Azad said that the fact that the US has
not granted Modi visa for 10 years over the riots issue cannot be ignored.He
also criticized Modi for trying to extend an olive branch to the hardline
Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani.Azad said he was sure UPA 3 will come to
power.Asked who will be the PM,he said Congress MPs will take the decision in
that regard.To a question on Prime Minister Manmohan Singh not being actively
involved in campaigning,Azad said all the leaders are participating in the poll
campaign.He also defended the Singh,who was dubbed as a weak PM in a book
written by his former media advisor."Prime Minister doesn't believe in creating
hype of what he has done.He believes in silently working hard for the uplift of
the masses.'' State school education minister Rajendra Darda,former MLC M M
Shaikh and city unit Congress president Syed Akram accompanied Azad during his
tour during which he addressed meetings in the old city area.Minister hails UPA
govt's achievements C ongress leader and Union health minister Ghulam Nabi Azad
on Saturday listed a number of achievements of the two UPA governments."I have
been in active politics for 35 years and worked with five prime ministers.The
quantum of projects initiated by UPA I and UPA 2 were unprecedented in 65
years." The minister claimed that power generation has almost doubled,seven lakh
schools were opened in villages,54,000 hospitals started across the nation and
special attention was paid to health services.TNN

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              732 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 31, 2014

'84 riots: Sikh groups ask Rahul to name Congmen

LENGTH: 319  words


New Delhi: Several Sikh groups on Thursday staged a protest outside the Congress
headquarters at 24, Akbar Road demanding Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi
reveal names of party members involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.



In a recent interview with a TV channel, Gandhi had said that "some Congress men
were probably involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and they have been punished
for it". The protesters shouted anti- Congress slogans and held up black flags
and placards, one of which read, "CBI should question Rahul Gandhi for Congress
involvement in 1984 riots".

"We want justice. We want to know who were those people who were involved in the
riots," said one of the protesters. Asked about Delhi government's decision to
set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the riots cases, he said, "We have
been demanding an SIT for the past 25 years. If Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal
is really with us, we welcome him, but if he is doing politics, we would like to
request him not to do so".

The 200-odd demonstrators marched towards the Congress headquarters and managed
to break the first barricade. They were stopped, however, at the second
barricade by police. Many of them were detained and taken to Tughlaq Road police
station from where they were later released.

In the interview, Gandhi had insisted that the Congress government in 1984 "was
not aiding and abetting the riots" but had tried to stop the violence.

Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar are facing allegations of
involvement in the riots which occurred in the aftermath of former Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi's assassination on October 31, 1984. So far, Delhi Police
and CBI have held probes into the riots.

Meanwhile, in Ludhiana, the youth wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) and a
students organisation also held a protest demanding Rahul Gandhi disclose the
identity of the Congress leaders involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              733 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday

Political, student riots blot on state: NCRB data

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: KOZHIKODE


KOZHIKODE, Aug. 31 -- It is not the number of murder, rape or dacoity cases but
political and student riots that are earning notoriety for Kerala in the
country.

As per the latest crime data 2015 released by National Crime Records Bureau
(NCRB), Kerala is in the top and way ahead of other states when it comes to
political and student riots and in third position after Maharashtra and Madhya
Pradesh for maximum number of IPC cases registered in 2015.

While Kerala registered 1,031 political riot cases with 1,191 victims, Karnataka
which was in second position had only 166 cases and West Bengal in third
position with 131 cases.

Similarly, the number of student riots in the state was 154 in 2015 while Uttar
Pradesh which was second registered 141 cases. Six communal riot cases were also
registered in the state in 2015 while no cases were recorded related to
agrarian, industrial or caste conflicts in the state.

"We are yet to fully analyse the data released by the NCRB. As there are lot of
elections taking place in the state, the number of political and student riot
cases will show a growth," said State Director General of Police (DGP) Loknath
Behera.

When compared to crime figures of 2014, there was only a marginal increase in
total number of IPC cases while the number of Special and Local Law (SLL) cases
decreased in the state in 2015. In 2015, the total number of IPC cases
registered in the state increased to 2,57,074 from 2,06,789 in 2014 while the
number of SLL cases fell to 3,96,334 in 2015 from 4,03,576 in 2014.

Kerala registered a total of 334 murder cases in 2015 which was much low
compared to the number of cases in West Bengal (2,096), Uttar Pradesh (4,732),
Telangana (1,188), Tamil Nadu (1,748) and Karnataka (1,557).

In case of crime against women, only 1,256 rape cases were registered in Kerala
which Assam recorded 1733 cases, Madhya Pradesh 4391 cases, Maharashtra 4,144,
Rajasthan 3,644, Uttar Pradesh 3,025 and Delhi Union Territory 2,199 cases.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              734 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

India court acquits 6 of crimes during Gujarat riots

LENGTH: 175  words


(JURIST) - An Indian court in Gujarat on Friday acquitted six individuals for
their roles in the deaths of three British people during the 2002 Gujarat riots.
The riots began following the death of 60 Hindus in a fire aboard a train for
which Muslims were blamed. The riots resulted in death of more than 2,000
people, mostly Muslims. The Gujarat court said that it found no evidence to
support a conviction.


Narendra Modi, the state's chief minister at the time of the riots, was elected
prime minister of India in May in a landslide victory. In January a judge for
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York on Wednesday
dismissed a lawsuit against Modi, agreeing with the US State Department that he
is entitled to immunity from lawsuits in US courts. The lawsuit was filed by the
American Justice Center in September claimed that Modi failed to stop the 2002
riot.
For the original version on JURIST visit: http://jurist.org
/paperchase/2015/02/india-court-acquits-six-of-crimes-during-gujarat-riots.php
2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              735 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Naroda Patia massacre verdict dents Narendra Modi's PM hopes

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 538 words


NEW DELHI: The conviction of his former minister Maya Kodnani has brought the
Gujarat riot trial at the Narendra Modi government's doorstep, undercutting the
CM's effort to project a "secular" image as a prop for his prime ministerial
aspirations.

Modi made Kodnani a minister after his landslide win in 2002 elections in
defiance of rampant allegations of her involvement in the Naroda-Patia massacre
earlier that year. Kodnani was retained as minister and remained part of the
ministerial team till the SIT chargesheet forced her to resign.

Given the background, the verdict of the trial court re-ignited memories of the
post-Godhra anti-Muslim violence of 2002 and the attendant accusation of the
state government's failure, setting back his effort to de-emphasize what is seen
by many as the defining feature of his reign with a "let-us-move-on" message. It
threatens to take away from the relief Modi received when SIT concluded there is
insufficient evidence to prosecute him for involvement in communal riots.

BJP on Wednesday challenged the argument that Kodnani's conviction is a
confirmation of the charge of the Modi regime's complicity in riots, saying she
was not a minister when the communal violence broke out. The reasoning is right
only in the technical sense.

Politically speaking, it is not going to wash with those who in any case
consider Modi to be a radioactive material because of the riots. Bihar CM Nitish
Kumar has made an early commitment from the BJP not to project Modi for PM a
pre-condition for continuing in the NDA.

The verdict can only strengthen Kumar's arguments, nullifying any hope that
Modi's third straight win in assembly polls and a growing anti-Congress mood may
allow BJP to persist with ambivalence on the leadership question.

BJP was conspicuously low key in response to the verdict with the otherwise
vocal spokespersons trying to argue that the development was part of an ongoing
legal process.

"We don't want to politicize the judicial process... this is the first court, it
is a judicial process, it will go on," said party spokesperson Prakash
Javadekar.

He further said the riot-convict had resigned immediately after the chargesheet
was filed, unlike as happens in Congress. Asked whether her involvement in the
riots shows complicity of the Gujarat government, he said, "I don't think so".

Javadekar, however, kept referring to the 1984 riots in Delhi and the recent
lower Assam violence as both happened during Congress regimes in respective
states. He did so while mentioning the Gujarat riots that happened under Modi's
chief ministership to say that "any riot or killing should be condemned and the
guilty should be punished."

"Whether is anti-Sikh riots of 1984, or the Maharashtra, Assam or Gujarat riots,
it is unfortunate and a blot on the face of the nation. Any level of
condemnation for any riot is insufficient. We have always criticized the Godhra
incident and Gujarat riots, that is our stand," Javadekar said.

Another party leader Tarun Vijay said that the party respected the judicial
process. "We have full trust in the judicial system of the country. Challenging
court decisions on road is the nature of Congress, not BJP," Vijay said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              736 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday

One year later, Stanley Cup riot just a distant memory

BYLINE: GARY MASON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS: COLUMN; LEGACY; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 706 words


gmason@globeandmail.com

It was one year ago today that the citizens of Vancouver began to put the
Stanley Cup riot behind them.

That is when dozens of them arrived downtown, some with brooms, others with
shovels, most with gloves, to begin the cleanup from the mayhem of the night
before. Some began writing on the blank sheets of plywood that were covering the
shattered windows of The Bay department store.

The opportunity to put into words what they were feeling at that moment was
wonderfully cathartic. More than anything, their expressions of anger and
disgust but also of defiance - the determination not to allow the riot to define
their city in any way - proved to be prophetic.

Contrary to the predictions of those who said the riot would leave deep and
lingering psychological scars on the city, it did nothing of the sort. While the
people of Vancouver and surrounding area won't ever forget June 15, 2011, most
are no longer consumed by it. They long ago put it behind them to be preoccupied
by things that matter more - their jobs, their family, the shaky state of the
world.

Even the sentencing of those convicted of taking part in the riot barely moves
the interest-meter of most people these days.

There are many reasons why the riot didn't have the deep and lasting impact that
many forecast.

Firstly, no one died. In many respects, that remains one of the true miracles of
that evening, given the bottles that were being thrown around, the fights that
were breaking out, the guns and knives that were undoubtedly being carried by
some of those who were there.

Had three or four people been killed, then the riot would be remembered quite
differently.

When I think of events likely to prompt a visceral reaction from people in Metro
Vancouver years from now, the death of Robert Dziekanski leaps to mind. The
footage of his writhing body on the floor of Vancouver International Airport
after being tasered by an RCMP officer left a far more indelible mark on the
minds of most people than the Stanley Cup riot ever will.

Secondly, the damage, while significant to some businesses, was limited to a few
million dollars. While that's nothing to sneer at, it's minimal compared to the
destruction caused by other riots or by natural disasters such as earthquakes.
In some riots in the U.S. - Detroit comes to mind - you have often seen evidence
of the ruin that took place years later. Buildings have remained burnt out,
boarded up and unoccupied.

Walk downtown Vancouver today and there is little sign of what happened last
year.

Thirdly, there was no great underlying cause for the riot. It was fed by booze
and ignited by the outcome of a hockey game. This wasn't the Rodney King riots
that took place in Los Angeles, where race relations were at the core. In some
respects, the effect of that riot is still felt in the U.S. because the issue at
the heart of it has not been completely resolved.

"The Stanley Cup riot had no political dimension," says Rima Wilkes, associate
professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia. "There were no
quote, unquote, sides in the way other riots have. There were no divisions in
the community at the heart of it, no underlying issues connected to the life of
the city itself."

Finally, cities, especially big ones, are remarkably resilient; a testament to
the power and durability of the human spirit. Cities bounce back from calamity,
often stronger than ever. When you think of the inspiring recovery that New York
has made from 9/11, it is perhaps no surprise that Vancouver would recuperate so
quickly and completely from an event that doesn't even rate mention in the same
breath as what happened south of border in 2001.

The Stanley Cup riot was many things but a tragedy it was not.

Earthquakes that level cities are tragedies. Tsunamis that wipe out towns and
kill thousands are tragedies. Losing a child in an accident or through illness
is a tragedy.

Years from now, last year's riot will be reduced to historical footnote. It will
become a point of reference in the timeline of a city. The images will endure,
to be pulled out and broadcast for anniversary sake. But the city itself will
have long since moved on.

In fact, it already has.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              737 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

BATONS FLY AS 'LOOTER' RUNS INTO RIOT SQUAD

LENGTH: 161 words


A GROUP of suspected looters leaving Manchester city centre on bikes ran into a
squad of riot police coming the other way.

These pictures appear to show officers in riot gear using batons to hand out a
summary punishment. The video, shot at 10.15pm on Tuesday in Jutland Street, was
being shown on the internet with the strapline: 'Manchester Riot Police Serve Up
Some Cold, Hard Justice'.

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police said the actions of officers during
the incident would be looked at by the force's Professional Standards Branch.

To see the footage visit dailymail.co.uk/riotcops

FLASHPOINT: Three riot police converge on a bike rider suspected of looting as
two other youths, not in picture, flee the scene

SUMMARY JUSTICE: One of the three officers appears to be repeatedly hitting the
youth as his colleagues look on ready to join the fray

WALKING WOUNDED: The suspect, top right, gets to his feet and stumbles away as
the riot squad head off down the street

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              738 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 26, 2005

Drunken youths close road with riot;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 341 words


MORE than 150 youths were involved in a riot which closed one of Belfast's main
roads for an hour.

Fire crews and police were called to a petrol station on the Andersonstown Road
in west Belfast at around 10pm after a gas cylinder was set on fire.

A police spokeswoman said two police officers, a male and a female, sustained
minor injuries to the head and to the leg after bricks and other missiles were
thrown at police.

She added that minor damage was caused to five police Land Rovers.

Speaking yesterday, the manager of the Shell petrol station said employees were
evacuated from the premises when the riot broke out on the road.

"Staff dealt with it very well, " he said.

Debris and glass yesterday littered the Andersonstown Road in the aftermath of
the riot.

A police spokeswoman said one man and one male juvenile were arrested for
riotous behaviour and disorderly behaviour.

Sinn Fein assembly member Michael Ferguson hit out at those involved in the riot
.

"Those drunken teenagers who endangered the lives of shoppers have no right to
share what little resources we have as a community and those businesses that are
distributing alcohol and fireworks to minors are also culpable, " he said.

"We need to challenge the distribution of fireworks and alcohol because none of
this anti-social behaviour is acceptable."

SDLP councillor Tim Attwood condemned the riot and said such behaviour "must
stop".

"Our emergency services should never be attacked, " he said.

"The people of west Belfast don't want their area destroyed by senseless
youths."

Insp Norman Haslett said west Belfast police performed an "essential" function
in making the area a safer environment.

"It is not helped when we are attacked by 150 youths as we respond to a
potentially life-threatening situation while helping our colleagues in the fire
service, " he said.

"I would appeal for those with influence in the community to try and do their
best to dissuade those responsible from this kind of activity."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIOT DAMAGE: A broken window in a petrol station in Andersonstown, west
Belfast, after a riot at the weekend PICTURE: Colm

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited


                              739 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Govt to procure anti-riot equipment worth billion rupees for police, APF

BYLINE: Lekhanath pandey

LENGTH: 415  words


Kathmandu, September 8: At a time when security forces are having to deal with
violent protests and riots across the country, the government has initiated the
process to procure anti-riot equipment worth one billion rupees for Nepal Police
and Armed Police Force.



The Cabinet decided last week to buy modern anti-riot equipment worth around Rs
650 million for Nepal Police and Rs 350 million for Armed Police Force with a
view to controlling riots with minimal damage to security forces. Some
communication devices will also be procured for the National Investigation
Department to help it in intelligence gathering.

Anti-riot equipment - crowd-controlling vehicles, shields, helmets, water
cannons, teargas shells, protective jackets, barricades, communication devices -
will be procured soon, according to Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, spokesperson for the
Ministry of Home Affairs.

Dhakal said the plan to equip the security forces was already on the cards, but
MoHA took the decision last week after security forces became the target of a
series of planned violent protests, mainly in Tarai districts.

Home Secretary Surya Silwal said given the urgent need for such equipment, the
government had planned to acquire it as part of a direct
government-to-government (G-to-G) deal with a foreign country.

According to him, the Cabinet has decided to seek quotations for such equipment
from a few foreign embassies and he has already directed Nepal Police and Armed
Police to get such quotations pronto. He, however, refused to disclose from
which embassies the quotations were being sought.

"Such equipment not only helps control riots effectively, but will also save
lives of our security forces, which have been performing riot-controlling duties
in the absence of modern equipment," Silwal added.

As per the Public Procurement Act, the government has to go for an open bidding
process, which can take long. But if it needs something urgently, the government
directly procures it on G-to-G basis after getting quotations from at least
three foreign governments or their embassies.

Nepal Police Spokesperson DIG Kamal Singh Bam told The Himalayan Times that the
police were making a list of the type and volume of equipment to be procured.
"We are working on it. Once the amount is released, we would initiate the
procurement process," he added.

According to DIG Bam, police personnel were exposed to violent protests across
the country and needed to shield themselves, as well as the general public,
better.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              740 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              June 28, 2013 Friday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Over 3,000 riots before 2002,but arrests only in Guj: Rajnath

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 213 words


Lucknow: BJP president Rajnath Singh on Thursday said more than 3,000 riots had
taken place across the country before the 2002 Gujarat riots following the
Godhra carnage.Of these,he said,at least 24 were big riots,nearly all of which
took place under Congress rule."In Gujarat,at least those found guilty have been
punished,but the same is not the case with other riots," said Singh,flanked by
Modi's trusted lieutenant and UP in charge Amit Shah and state BJP chief
Laxmikant Bajpayi.The Congress,like encephalitis,was trying to spread the
disease of "secularities",he said.India is a secular country,still the Congress
wants to debate communalism and secularism,he told reporters.The people have not
forgotten the 1984 Sikh riots and everyone knows who was behind the mayhem,said
Singh.Trying to nullify the controversy after Goa meeting of the party in which
Modi was declared chairman of the campaigning committee,Rajnath refused to
accept that party patriarch L K Advani was annoyed over anything."Advani ji was
our leader,is our leader and will remain our leader," he said.Expressing concern
over the falling rupee,Singh said withdrawal of FDI by foreign companies coupled
with withdrawal of black money by Indians from foreign banks was the reason
behind rupee's devaluation.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              741 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Argus Weekend (South Africa)

                                August 14, 2011
                                   E1 Edition

The kids are all riot in the UK but why must they shoulder the blame?

BYLINE:  Brian|cooper

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 364 words


Riots in the UK seem to come with strange regularity. Certainly, since Maggie
Thatcher disgraced all womankind by being simultaneously one of the worst
British premiers and the first woman to lead that country, there have been urban
riots in 1981 (Brixton, Handsworth, Chapeltown, Toxteth,Sheffield), 1991-1992
(Poll Tax protests), 1995 (Brixton), 2001 (Oldham, Harehills, Bradford), and now
across London and in other major cities.

Riots in London are nothing new and since the 12th century they have proved a
popular way to show displeasure at rulers and do a bit of informal shopping on
the side.

What is interesting is the contrast of these latest disturbances with other
riots in terms of the possible causes. Where in the past unpopular measures or
clear instances of poverty or police misbehaviour could be cited with some
degree of credibility, the present argy bargy seems to have the experts/spin
doctors in a bit of a thumbsucking flap. Among the possible reasons suggested
for the riots have been: the fatal shooting of a suspect by the police; local
tensions with police; high unemployment and cuts in public services; economic
crisis; poverty; the growing gap between rich and poor; criminal opportunism;
recreational violence; gang culture; and plain old greed.

No doubt many of these reasons found expression in many of the acts we have
witnessed but the broad range of reasons offered suggests we have not quite
captured the zeitgeisty essence of the events. People are often aggrieved but do
they always feel entitled to burn and loot? What loosens the usual bounds of
propriety more effectively than the crumbling of propriety itself? What could
better signal to young people the "okayness" of rioting and looting than the
finger-wagging press thinking it is fine to ransack people's privacy in pursuit
of sales? Or parliamentarians who use their expense accounts to feather their
own nests? Or, greedy bankers happy to risk a nation's standard of living by
encouraging bad debt - and then being bailed out by the government at taxpayers'
expense?

I have no idea why people are rioting in the UK, but I could hazard a guess at
why they think they can.

brian.cooper@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CZ


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              742 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Star (Sheffield)

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

250 prisoners moved after riot

BYLINE: Claire Lewis

LENGTH: 549 words



HIGHLIGHT: MORE than 250 inmates have been moved out of a South Yorkshire prison
following three nights of riots which destroyed four wings.


The latest riot, which ended in the early hours of yesterday, involved 166
rampaging inmates in the Category C adult section of HMP Moorland, Hatfield
Woodhouse, Doncaster.

Violence flared after prisoners refused to return to their cells at the end of
their association time, where they are allowed to mix with other inmates.

The riot mirrored two outbreaks of violence in the young offenders' section of
the prison complex on Tuesday and Wednesday.

Around 30 prisoners were involved in the first riot and 86 destroyed two wings
in the second.

In the first two riots fires were lit, cells and offices destroyed, snooker
balls were hurled as missiles and prisoners armed themselves with snooker cues.
Glyn Travis, of the Prison Officers Association, said the third riot was "an
extremely dangerous situation."

A major review is underway into all three incidents, but the Prison Officers
Association, which represents prison workers, said it should have started
earlier.

Tony Merricks, a national officer who covers South Yorkshire, said: "I cannot
understand why the adult prisoners were allowed out of their cells bearing in
mind what had happened on the previous two nights.

"I am angered and shocked that an investigation was not started earlier.

"After two nights of rioting I would have thought it would have been essential
for the authorities to have got to the bottom of why they started and to have
put a plan in place to prevent the situation escalating.

"It put our members and prisoners themselves in grave danger."

He said prison officers believe the riots started because prisoners are
frustrated at the amount of time they are having to spend locked up in their
cells due to a lack of education, training and rehabilitation courses available
because of funding cuts.

He said as part of the Prison Service review all inmates would be interviewed in
a bid to identify the ringleaders.

Specialist prison service riot squads were called in to restore calm and remove
inmates while officers from South Yorkshire Police provided back up on the
outside.

A Prison Service spokesman said the third incident began at 6.30pm when
prisoners started throwing objects and causing damage on the wing.

He added: "By 1.25am all prisoners had surrendered. One prisoner was reported to
be suffering from serious injuries and was taken by ambulance to an outside
hospital."

Prison Service Chief Executive Michael Spurr said: "Staff have done a
magnificent job over the past 72 hours. We have deployed additional staff today
to Moorland to ensure stability at the prison."

Got a view? Leave a comment below.

Follow The Star on Twitter and Facebook:
For breaking news and sport follow The Star on Twitter at
www.twitter.com/sheffieldstar and on Facebook at www.facebook.com/sheffieldstar
.

JOIN THE STAR READER PANEL:  The Star is YOUR newspaper, so tell us what you
think about it and what you want to see - CLICK HERE.

Don't miss our daily pull-outs - only in the The Star: Monday Star Sport,
Tuesday Class Act; Wednesday Business; Thursday Grassroots; Friday Time Out;
Saturday Retro. Subscribe to The Star - CLICK HERE
READ MORE
Join the Star reader panel
Main news index
Your letters
Features
South Yorkshire's environmental news
Kids Zone
More business news
More Rotherham news
More Doncaster news
More Barnsley news
Latest sport

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SHEF


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              743 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mixed legacy of the London riots

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 462 words


AFTER the riots of 1981 and 2001 the Scarman Report and the Cantle Report
systematically reviewed the matters leading up to the disturbances and the riots
themselves. After the 2011 riots the Government decided not to commission a
report, so there was never a definitive analysis or recommendations which might
prevent riots of a similar kind from occurring again. Two years on we see the
consequences of that decision and, as your leading article yesterday pointed
out, many of the issues remain unresolved. Martin Davis, director, Community
Safety Information Service TWO years after the riots of August 2011 the Mayor is
quite rightly focused on criminal perpetrators and their victims ("325 suspects
still free two years after London riots", August 6). But this must not distract
us from the crucial need to work with young people before they get to the point
of destructive disengagement.

We at Community Links have been delivering "Youth Street Action", a crime
diversionary programme working on the streets with more than 6,000 young
Londoners, but the contract ends this month. Now, for many young people, their
first point of contact with authority will not be with supportive youth workers
but with the police.

It is critical to invest in building fences at the top of the cliff rather than
pay for the ambulances and police cars to mop up at the bottom. Geraldine Blake,
chief executive, Community Links IN Tottenham in the past two years we've seen
the community-led regeneration of Lordship Recreation Ground, restored to its
original glory with Heritage Lottery money. Next, Tottenham Green is earmarked
for major improvements. Nearly all of the riot damaged sites on the High Road
have been rebuilt or repaired. We have seen national high street chains such as
Sainsbury's and Costa Coffee open new premises alongside new shops by local
independent retailers. This all gives the sense that things are improving,
business confidence is growing and regeneration is actually happening in our
area.

Matthew Bradby, chairman, Tottenham Civic Society AFTER the riots, political
promises were made about regeneration and community engagement. What we have
instead seen, is a cut in social projects and less money for cohesion and
conflict resolution projects.

Last week, while in Tottenham, I asked a young man of African Caribbean heritage
living off the High Road what the future would be for him. He said: "After the
cameras left and the news junkies got their shots of groups of young men acting
like louts, the whole world moved on and forgot us. Now we are just in the
shadows again."

Fiyaz Mughal, director, Faith Mattters

For many young people, their first point of contact with authority will not be
with supportive youth workers but with the police Geraldine Blake

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              744 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

Taxpayers to pick up pounds 2m bill for policing Merseyside riots

BYLINE: David Bartlett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words


MORE than 80% of yobs suspected to have taken part in last month's riots in
Merseyside already had criminal convictions, according to official data.

The Ministry of Justice revealed that by midday on Monday 69 people had appeared
in court connected with the public disorder in early August.

The data was released as Merseyside Police Authority revealed the cost of the
riots to the taxpayer is almost pounds 2m.

The force moved to 12-hour shifts and had to pay out pounds 1.73m in overtime,
and also paid out pounds 249,000 in non-staffing costs.

As the investigation into the riots continues the cost is expected to exceed
pounds 2m.

Merseyside Police is expecting to submit a bid to the Home Office to cover the
costs but at this stage it is not known whether the government will agree to
pay.

Of the people who have appeared in court only two people have been jailed, 21
have been remanded in custody and 19 people were released after being found
guilty.

Three were acquitted, the outcome of one hearing was not recorded and the rest
have been released on bail.

In Merseyside 35% of the those who took part in the riots were juveniles, and 7%
were older than 40 years old.

Only 23% of juveniles in Merseyside did not already have a criminal record,
while almost 30% had committed at least three previous offences. Of the adults
that have so far appeared in front of the courts locally, 10% have previously
committed more than 50 crimes and 21% had committed between 15 and 49 crimes.
Only 16% of the adults did not have a criminal record.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke said: "I congratulate the courts for delivering
swift and firm justice which stopped the riots spreading further.

"I am dismayed to see a hardcore of repeat offenders back in the system.

"This reinforces my determination to introduce radical changes to ensure both
effective punishment and reform to tackle reoffending."

The police authority has also received 24 claims from businesses and residents
under the Riot Damages Act, so far pounds 1,240 has been paid out with a further
pounds 8,000 due to be paid, although this figure could rise.

Police vehicles and buildings were also damaged in the violence.

Windscreens had to be replaced on 23 vehicles, four vehicles had emergency
mechanical repairs, and 47 vehicles are still requiring bodywork repairs.

Admiral Street police station also suffered extensive damage, but specialist
protective glass shielded the building from more serious damage.

The police authority report states: "It is estimated that the costs could exceed
pounds 2m."

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "The government has made clear that it
will support the police.

"There is already an established system of special grants in place to support
forces where they face unexpected or exceptional costs.

"It is up to individual forces if they wish to apply for a special grant and all
applications will be considered."

Opinion: Page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Riot police with looters in Clapham Junction Riot officers stand their
ground outside Admiral Street police station Riots on Smithdown Road in Toxteth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              745 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

On Muz riots, BSP discards judicial commission report

LENGTH: 304  words


Today, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati rejected the judicial probe
commission report on the Muzaffarnagar riots saying that its only motive was to
protect the interest of Samajwadi Party and to give clean chit to the Akhilesh
Yadav government.

She said in a statement here "Muslims community and other innocent people have
to re-think on their support to the SP government as they will not be able to
get any justice like they had suffered during the Muzaffarnagar riots".

Ms Mayawati said the commission report proves that BJP government at the Centre
and the SP government at the state are playing with the sentiments of the
minorities and in their regime, the life and properties of the poor, women,
farmers and Dalits are not safe.

She alleged "Muzaffarnagar riots was the conspiracy hatched by the BJP, in
support by the SP government of UP as even after announcing strict action
against the BJP leaders, the SP government in the state did nothing and the
criminals are ruling the roost".

She said "All the community will have to be aware of the conspiracy and if
necessary, they will have to take political help to safeguard their interests".

The BSP supremo adding that SP government had made the BJP, criminals of the
riots, as hero, while people who suffered, were yet to get any respite.

As per her, the report of Justice(Retd) Vishnu Sahai in the Muzaffarnagar riot
case has made people feel that it was constituted just to protect the interest
of UP government after the Supreme Court had lashed the state government over
the riots.

She claimed "Though the SP government has tried to save itself from the blame on
the riots, but people know who are the real culprits and they will teach them a
lesson in the coming 2017 Assembly polls, when the Samajwadi Party will suffer
the most". 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              746 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                       March 25, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Sad about 2002 Gujarat riots but have no guilt, says Narendra Modi

LENGTH: 541  words


Ahmedabad/New Delhi: Bjp's prime ministerial nominee Narendra Modi says that he
was "sad" about the 2002 Gujarat riots but has no guilt, and that no court has
"come even close to establishing" it. He has suffered 12 years of public
"Modi-bashing" since the time of the riots but says that he had decided early on
to "let the media do its work; there will be no confrontation".

"I never waste my time in confrontation", the BJP's prime ministerial candidate
is quoted as saying in a just-published biography written by a British author
and TV producer Andy Marino.

Marino says in the book "Narendra Modi; A Political Biography", published by
Harper Collins, that he was given detailed access by Modi whom he accompanied
aboard his helicopter during his campaign rallies and interviewed him over
several weeks.

On 2002 riots, Modi says, "I feel sad about what happened but no guilt. And no
court has come even close to establishing it."

The 310-page book deals with the riots in some detail with "hitherto
unpublished, authenticated documents". It discloses that after the riots Modi
wanted to resign as chief minister but was prevailed upon by the party to
continue.

Marino says that the BJP strongman had confided in him "possibly for the first
time in an on-the-record interview, that he no longer wanted to be the chief
minister after the riots because he had decided it was unfair on the people of
the state who had been subjected to extreme abuse because of him".

Narendra Modi had resolved to step down at the BJP National Executive in Panaji
on April 12, 2002, about a month after the post-Godhra riots.

The largely-adulatory book quotes Modi as having told the Panaji conclave, "I
want to speak on Gujarat. From the party's point of view this is a grave issue.

"There is a need for a free and frank discussion. To enable this, I wish to
place my resignation before this body. It is time we decided what direction the
party and the country should take from this point onwards."

The chief minister told the biographer, "I wanted to leave this position but my
party was not ready to leave me, the people of Gujarat were not ready to leave
me, this situation is what I had (to deal with).

"It was not up to me. And I was not ready to go against party discipline; I
don't want to fight against my party. What my leaders say, I must follow it."

Modi provides some details of how he handled the situation in the aftermath of
the attack on a train carrying mostly 'kar sevaks' from Ayodhya in the early
hours of February 27, 2002 in which 59 people were burnt alive.

He says that after he had returned from Godhra to Gandhinagar late at night, "I
informally asked my officers to alert the Army". He was told that the Army was
at the border because there was tension between India and Pakistan after the
attack on Parliament.

The book states that Modi had appealed to his counterparts in three neighbouring
states, Ashok Ghelot in Rajasthan, Vilasrao Deshmukh in Maharashtra and
Digvijaya Singh in Madhya Pradesh, to send aid in the form of law enforcement
and para-military personnel. He sought 10 companies of armed police from each
state. While Maharashtra had sent a very limited number of personnel to help,
the other two states had quietly refused, it says.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              747 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

State vows to get to bottom of prison riot

BYLINE: Nino Bucci, Rania Spooner, Tom Cowie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words


An independent investigation into one of Victoria's worst prison riots will be
led by a former deputy commissioner of police, the state government vowing to
uncover the reasons for the unrest and any failings in the response of
authorities.

Former deputy commissioner Kieran Walshe will investigate the Metropolitan
Remand Centre riot, which raged for 15 hours until police took control of the
prison and battled armed inmates.

The riot at the maximum security remand prison for men, widely believed to have
been sparked by smoking bans, caused millions of dollars worth of damage.

Although authorities were able to regain control of all prison units at 3.30am
on Wednesday, firefighters were headed back eight hours later when two small
fires again set off alarms before being extinguished.

Three prison staff suffered minor injuries during the riot as well as five
prisoners, including two men who received treatment for dog bites and another
for a broken jaw.

Another was later taken to hospital with chest pains although it was not known
if his condition was related to earlier events.

A report into the riot is due in early November. Findings will be made public
except for any matters that may compromise security.

Mr Walshe retired from Victoria Police in 2012 and joined the Adult Parole Board
in 2013.

Corrections Minister Wade Noonan said the investigation would explore what had
occurred, the response, and what authorities could learn from the incident.

"There is no better person than Kieran Walshe to help us find out what happened
and how to make sure it doesn't happen again," he said. "Such behaviour from
prisoners is unacceptable and will not be tolerated."

As many as 50 armed inmates had clashed with police in the final moments of the
standoff but at the height of the 15-hour ordeal, it is understood about 300 men
at the 1000-bed facility were involved.

Inmates armed themselves with makeshift weapons found in prison workshops,
including metal bars and planks of wood, torching vehicles and ripping down a
fence.

The MRC, about 20 kilometres west of Melbourne, is the state's main holding
facility for unsentenced men..

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              748 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                            April 30, 2015 Thursday

'Race riots' as American as apple pie

BYLINE: By Donald Kaul

SECTION: LOCAL1

LENGTH: 570 words


What started out as righteous protest over the death of a young black man in the
hands of Baltimore cops (he had been accused of "making eye contact with a
police officer") quickly degenerated into a full-scale riot. By nightfall the
city was on fire, its hopes for a better tomorrow in ruins.

City officials blamed "thugs" and "outsiders" for the disaster. But in another
sense it was an uprising, a desperate act of defiance by young people who feel
increasingly that they have nothing left to lose.

You're going to arrest them? So what. Chances are you're going to arrest them
anyway, sooner or later. They know that. It's what we do to black people in our
society.

It's not as though what happened in Baltimore was unique or even unusual in our
nation's history. Race riots, as we used to call them, are as American as
baseball and apple pie.

I grew up in Detroit, which is kind of Ground Zero for racial war. The Ossian
Sweet riot in 1921 was triggered by a black doctor trying to move into a
formerly white neighborhood.

The Detroit riots of 1943 grew from rumors of the rape of a white woman by black
men on Belle Isle, a public park. In 1967, a riot started with a police raid of
an after-hours joint in the black section of town. The city suffered damage,
both physical and human, from which it has yet to fully recover.

New York can almost match Detroit riot for riot. The New York riots of 1863
started out as a protest against the draft but eventually morphed into a
murderous attack on all blacks in lower Manhattan.

The Harlem riots of 1945, immortalized by Ralph Ellison in his great novel The
Invisible Man, exploded over the cops beating a black man accused of
shoplifting. The 1964 Harlem riots were touched off when the police shot a black
15-year-old.

The 1968 "Martin Luther King" riots swept the nation after the assassination of
the black civil rights leader.

Can you spot a pattern here? This country is so replete with riots that most
Americans don't know about the Tulsa riots of 1921, in which hundreds of black
men and women died and as many as 10,000 were rendered homeless when a white mob
burned a prosperous black neighborhood to the ground.

These incidents aren't isolated occurrences or the work of thugs and outsiders.
They're related chapters in the ongoing civil war between white society and the
majority of the black population.

After each major uprising someone appoints a commission, which eventually comes
up with recommendations. For the most part the recommendations are good ideas:
strengthen schools, offer more job training, step up affordable housing, improve
community policing. But the track record on following through on them is bad.

I don't denigrate the civil rights movement and its success, its long list of
distinguished black politicians, doctors, lawyers, diplomats, teachers. But our
country has failed to address the systemic plight of young black men trapped in
poverty.

Those young men have as little in common with President Barack Obama as they do
with Mitch McConnell.

We depend on our police to keep a lid on things by whatever means necessary and
we put an appalling percentage of our black youth in jail, often rendering them
unable to vote or even be considered for a decent job.

Predictably, from time to time, a riot ensues. So the establishment blames thugs
and outsiders, then sets up another commission.

OtherWords columnist Donald Kaul lives in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              749 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday
                                  Pune Edition

Riot accused from UP is now minister

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: DAWN OF A NEW ERA

LENGTH: 227 words


New Delhi: BJP on Monday accommodated its Muzaffarnagar candidate Sanjeev
Baliyan,an accused in the recent riots in the region,in its council of
ministers.Coming in the face of criticism that the riots stoked communal
polarization,Baliyan's inclusion signals defiance.The party has consistently
maintained that Baliyan has been framed by the UP government as part of its
"vote bank politics".Baliyan was part of a mahapanchayat in September 2013,which
was held despite prohibitory orders and allegedly inflamed tensions.UP police
charged him with violation of prohibitory orders and promoting enmity between
two communities.The riots claimed more than 60 lives.Baliyan is the only
candidate apart from VK Singh from western UP who has been given a position in
the Narendra Modi-led government.Baliyan himself won by a margin of four lakh
votes.The party has claimed that Baliyan was never involved in the Muzaffarnagar
riots and was framed by the state government.BJP swept the riot-affected region
of western UP winning all 10 seats.Baliyan was accompanied in his victory by two
other riot accused - Bharatendra Singh,who won from Bijnor,and Hukum Singh,who
won from Kairana.At an Agra rally of Modi,BJP legislators Sangeet Som and Suresh
Rana were garlanded and felicitated by the party's Uttar Pradesh leaders.For the
full report,log on to www.timesofindia.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              750 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Programme summary of Moldova One TV "Mesager" news 7 Apr 11

LENGTH: 376 words


Presenter Elena Gudumac.

1. 0020 Headlines over video.

2. 0105 Moldovan politicians and hundreds civilians commemorate the victims of
the 2009 post-electoral riots. The fringe Patriotic Party stages a rally, saying
that the 2009 protesters were fooled and that those who looted the parliamentary
building and the presidential administration should be punished. Correspondent's
report.

3. 0345 Several dozens people commemorate Valeriu Boboc who died beaten up by
police in the night after the riots. Correspondent's report.

4. 0520 Prime Minister Vlad Filat meets policemen and young people who suffered
during the 2009 riots. Correspondent's report.

5. 0803 MPs point out the need to find out the truth about what happened on 7
April 2009, who and why organized the rallies. The opposition Communists blame
the ruling alliance for the riots. Correspondent's report.

6. 1000 Presenter says that the action "Light a candle" in the memory of the
2009 riots will be held at 2000 local time in central Chisinau on the Great
National Assembly Square. Correspondent's report.

7. 1025 Two young people who participated in the 2009 riots launch two books
about the events. The young people who were tortured after the riots say that
they still have health and psychological problems. Correspondent's report.

8. 1250 Video monitoring devices are donated to a police commissariat in
Chisinau within an EU-UN project. Correspondent's report.

9. 1431 Power rates for end consumers are likely to increase. Correspondent's
report.

10. 1524 News in brief.

11. 1719 Communist MP Alexandru Petcov dubs the employees of the Education
Ministry as "idiots". The ruling alliance MPs vote to drive him out of the
parliamentary meeting as he refuses to apologize. The Communists block the
parliament's central rostrum and then walk out of the session hall.
Correspondent's report.

12. 2048 Pre-recorded report about staff shortage in healthcare institutions in
villages in northern Moldova.

13. 2240 The IMF gives Moldova 79m dollars to cover the budget deficit and fill
in the currency reserves. Presenter-read report.

14. 2313 Foreign news: Japan.

15. 2356 Culture roundup.

16. 3123 Headlines recapped.

17. 3201 Presenter signs off.

Source: Moldova One TV, Chisinau, in Moldovan 1600gmt 07 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              751 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

Iran to arrest "leaders" of post-poll unrest - paper

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of report under "Urgent" column headlined" Identification and arrest of all
hidden leaders of rioters "published by Iranian newspaper Javan on 12 April

All leaders and agents of the riots related to last year's [presidential
election] have been identified. Referring to the riot movement which tries to
give rise to a new wave by seditious attempts using different occasions like the
anniversary of 22 Khordad [referring to 14 June 2009 post-election riot], an
informed source said that all leaders and provokers of this movement have been
identified and will be arrested.

This well-informed official told Efsha News: According to the verified
information obtained, the riot movement is trying to evoke a new wave of unrest
and disturbance in people's affairs and lives under different pretexts. Thus by
the efforts of relevant bodies during last year all leaders and agents of riots
have been identified and will be arrested with in the upcoming weeks.

He later talked about the identification of the remaining agents of the attacks
on the Basij base, Lowlagar Mosque, rioters of 30 Khordad [22 June 2009] etc. He
said: These people who have been hiding so far and others who were seen to have
cooperated with certain other people who also have been freed and are still
after riots, will be soon arrested. And their plots for riots and the documents
which verify this fact will be exposed to the Iranian nation.

Source: Javan, Tehran, in Persian 12 Apr 10, p 2

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              752 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Gujarat riots victims' kin to get 5 years age relaxation in jobs

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, March 3 -- The central government, perhaps for the first time, has
given age relaxation to children and dependents of victims of 2002 Gujarat riots
in jobs of Intelligence Bureau and CISF.

In two separate advertisements, published ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, the home
ministry said that the upper age limit up to five years may be relaxed for
children and dependents of victims in the communal riots of 2002 in Gujarat.

The Intelligence Bureau is seeking applications to fill up 514 posts of security
assistant (executive), general central service, group-c
(non-gazetted/non-ministerial) to be posted across the country.

The last date for receiving online applications for the IB posts was February
17.

The Central Industrial Security Force too is seeking to fill up 123 posts of
constables (bandsman-cum-general duty). The closing date for receipt of
application from the candidates for the CISF posts was February 8.

"The age limit is relaxable for ex-servicemen as well as for candidates who were
domiciled in Jammu & Kashmir from January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1989 and
children and dependents of victims of communal riots of 2002 in Gujarat as per
government instructions in this regard issued from time to time," the
Intelligence Bureau advertisement said.

The CISF advertisement said upper age limit up to 5 years may be relaxed "to the
children and dependents of victims killed in the 1984 riots and communal riots
of 2002 in Gujarat".

The advertisements clarified that children including the adopted son and
daughter and dependent family members like spouse or children besides brother or
sister in case of unmarried victim who were totally dependent on that victim at
the time of his getting killed in the riots are all eligible.

The move to give age relaxation in central government jobs to victims of 2002
Gujarat riots comes just ahead of the announcement of the dates of the general
elections.

The Congress has been highly critical of BJP's prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi's role as Gujarat chief minister during the 2002 riots.

Even Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had accused Modi of "presiding" over the
"massacre" of innocent people during the 2002 Gujarat riots.

However, BJP has been defending Modi saying no court has found him guilty in any
riot case.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              753 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday

London Riots-Why It Happened

SECTION: YOUR SAY SCHOOLS

LENGTH: 255 words


It all began on the 6th August 2011 following the peaceful protest over the
fatal shooting of Mark Duggan by Metropolitan Police in Tottenham, North London.
This escalated to unrest throughout several cities including London areas,
Greater Manchester and the West Midlands. The unrest included looting, rioting,
mugging, assault and murder. Following five deaths, sixteen plus members of the
public injured and more than one hundred and eighty six police officers injured.

More than a month on and the consequences of the riots are beginning to surface;
several businesses were left damaged beyond repair and buildings left tarnished.
The reasons behind the riots are still unclear for many as they begin to rebuild
a divided society.

Some analysts claim that the riots were due to unfair racial targeting of ethnic
minorities. This was then taken to extremes by the public, where young people
looted shops due to what they believed were government cuts depriving them of
higher education. Boredom and opportunism were side by side promoting dangerous
allies, this boredom succumbs from school holidays and what some people see as
social deprivation. It was a free-for-all copycat approach among the looters who
blamed the government cuts were the reasons for the looting of several shops
whereby some claimed that they were 'getting their taxes back.' Individuals had
their reasons for their involvement which will remain a mystery for the general
public; we can only rebuild our community and hope that history does not repeat
itself.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              754 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

No jobs on compassionate ground to riots victims' kin

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 414 words


<p>

AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday refused to direct the state
government to provide jobs on compassionate grounds to kin of post-Godhra riot
victims in state services or PSUs after the state government expressed its
inability to do so.</p>

<p>

Social activist Gagan Sethi had moved the HC in 2008, demanding implementation
of the Union government's scheme of 2007 to disburse ex-gratia compensation to
riot affected and also provide jobs to kin of riot victims.</p>

<p>

The bone of contention was the additional relief and rehabilitation package
envisaged in the Centre's 2007 scheme that spoke of providing compassionate
appointment to children and family members of those killed during the 2002 riots
. The Centre promised to give preference to them in recruitment in paramilitary
forces, IR battalions, SRP, PSUs and other state and central government
departments by giving necessary age relaxation.</p>

<p>

Refusing to direct the state to give jobs, the HC observed that the court cannot
expand the scope of the Union government's policy and direct the state
government to give jobs on compassionate grounds in absence of any such policy
of state government. It is to be noted that, the Centre too has not provided any
jobs on compassionate ground to the riot affected.</p>

<p>

The HC also refused to direct the state government to include names of those
riot-hit, who did not figure in the list prepared in 2002, for compensation. The
litigant contended that there were many reasons including threat to their lives
that had forced the riot affected to leave their places and hence they could not
file application for compensation in a given time frame in 2002. On the HC's
directions to centre and the state, Rs 358 crore has been released by the Union
government to the state for disbursal among the 2002 riots affected in various
categories. They included 1,169 death cases and 2,548 injury cases among total
52,557 cases, including damage to residential and commercial properties across
Gujarat.</p>

<p>

Enumerating details of disbursal in different categories in various districts,
the division bench observed that the affected people have got a right to
monetory compensation in accordance with Centre's scheme of 2007. And the amount
was given to the affected as per the scheme barring few cases, where the issue
of identity of people was disputed. The concerned district collectors have been
directed to complete the procedure soon.</p>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              755 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                  2ND Edition

Violence sweeps UK after London anarchy;
RIOTS 2011

BYLINE: GARY STEWART

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 387 words


DAVID Cameron flew back to the UK last night as violence spread to major cities.

Scenes of widespread looting, violence and arson were seen not only in London,
where riots began on Saturday night, but in Birmingham and Bristol.

The worst rioting in decades led to the arrest of hundreds of people as streets
were turned into war zones.

Police and emergency services were overwhelmed by a third consecutive night of
trouble, with riots starting in London in the daylight hours yesterday.

The prime minister flew back to Britain to chair the government's emergency
committee Cobra and meet police chiefs after leaving a family holiday to
Tuscany.

Scotland Yard said 334 people were arrested, 69 people charged and two cautioned
in connection with the rioting and looting across London.

West Midlands police arrested about 100 people in Birmingham after youths went
on the rampage in the city centre's retail area, near the Bullring shopping
mall.

London bore the brunt of the violence however, with more than 1,700 extra
officers deployed to all corners of the capital.

The "opportunistic" attacks saw major fires set in Hackney and Peckham. A man in
Croydon was also injured in a shooting.

A furniture shop in Croydon, which had been in the same family for five
generations in a 100-year-old building, was completely destroyed after being
torched.

Amid the disorder, Scotland Yard said it had found a 26-year-old man in a car
suffering from gunshot wounds.

A large blaze at a Sony distribution centre near Enfield, north London, also
sent plumes of thick smoke across the sky.

Scotland Yard said between 250 to 300 people had gathered on the Pembury Estate,
setting alight cars and throwing petrol bombs.

Looting and outbreaks of violence was also recorded by officers in Newham,
Lewisham and Bethnal Green, where more than 100 people looted a Tesco premises
and two officers were injured.

In Bristol, residents were urged to avoid the city centre by Avon and Somerset
police after 150 rioters hit the streets.

In Nottinghamshire, a police station was attacked, windows of houses were
smashed and a container of 200 tyres was set alight.

In Kent, five people were arrested by police following trouble in the Medway
area.

The force said fires had been set across Chatham, Rainham and Gillingham over
night.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BACK: Prime minister David Cameron NIGHTMARE: Riots on Lawrence Road
CONFRONTATION: Riot police face yobs near Tesco, in Park Road, Toxteth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              756 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Third Edition

Riot report withheld until after Hickey inquest

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words


The Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, is refusing to release an internal report
about February's Redfern riot until after the coronial inquest into Thomas "TJ"
Hickey's death, despite the coroner having "no view" on whether it should be
made public.

A taskforce, Strikeforce Coburn, has been investigating police actions during
the riot, in which 40 police were injured.

It also looked at how prepared police were for the situation and what measures
should be implemented across NSW to handle such events in the future.

A parliamentary inquiry into the riot has recommended that the Police Minister,
John Watkins, release the Coburn report "as soon as possible".

Mr Watkins responded that the report was an internal police document and the
commissioner had sought advice from the NSW Coroner, John Abernethy, about
whether its release would affect the inquest into the death of 17-year-old
Thomas Hickey, whose death sparked the riot.

Yesterday, Mr Moroney's spokeswoman said he would not release the report until
after the coroner's findings were handed down later this month.

However, the executive officer to the NSW State Coroner, Stephen Olischlager,
said the office had advised the police legal department on July 16 that Mr
Abernethy would not look at the report until he handed down his findings.

"He's got no view either way as to whether it should or should not be released,"
he said.

Mr Olischlager said the police report was unlikely to effect the coronial
process or the coroner's findings.

The Opposition Leader, John Brogden, called for the immediate release of the
report in light of the coroner's advice to the Police Commissioner. "By delaying
the release of the report Mr Watkins has bought him some time to fix some of the
more embarrassing staffing problems at Redfern police station.

"John Watkins has used every desperate means at his disposal to prevent the
release of the Coburn report. However, telling fairy tales about the coroner's
alleged need for secrecy is shameful and deceitful."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              757 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             May 20, 2004 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

MP stirs chaos at Redfern riot hearing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 167 words


THE parliamentary inquiry into Sydney's Redfern riot descended into chaos
yesterday as a Liberal MP accused an Aboriginal activist of inciting the
violence.

Several Aboriginal onlookers called for upper house MP Greg Pearce to be ejected
from the hearing for his aggressive questioning of Lyall Munro, before
themselves storming out of the room.

The row erupted at a packed public hearing held at the new Redfern Community
Centre, just opposite the Block at the centre of the February 15 riot.

Mr Pearce challenged Mr Munro to admit that he himself had incited the riot and
that at one point he had abused elderly Aboriginal women who were trying to calm
the situation.

"I don't want to answer that question," Mr Munro said.

Mr Pearce came back: "You don't want to answer it because you were there
inciting the riot and abusing the women.

"We're here for the solution and you're part of the problem."

Later Mr Munro said: "The two women in question were going on unaccustomed to
what was acceptable that night".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: MR MUNRO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2004 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              758 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 20, 2013 Friday
                                 Delhi Edition

Ramgopal: '02 riots worse as CM held strings

BYLINE: Subodh Ghildiyal TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 252 words


NewDelhi:Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav said Muzaffarnagar riots could
not be compared to Gujarat 2002 as the post-Godhra carnage was orchestrated by
chief minister Narendra Modi while claiming that Akhilesh Yadav had taken timely
action to check the damage.On the back foot over criticism that the state had a
political motive in lax handling of Muzaffarnagar situation,Yadav told TOI,"The
two cannot be spoken of in the same breath.Gujarat riots were done on the chief
minister's directive and continued for weeks,while in UP,the Army was called in
one hour and the situation was brought under control." The Rajya Sabha MP said
comparison between the two riots was odious."Everyone knows they are
different.Even here,it was plotted and executed by BJP," he said.Instead,Yadav
blamed Modi and BJP for the situation in western UP,pointing to the presence of
Modi's confidant and former Gujarat home minister Amit Shah as the organitional
in-charge of the state."Modi has sent Amit Shah to UP to stoke communal
tensions.His job is to see how tension can be created," he said.UP riots worse
than in Guj: Cong leader C ongress leader Rashid Alvi on Thursday said that the
Muzaffarnagar communal violence was worse than the 2002 Gujarat riots and blamed
the UP government for it."The Muzaffarnagar riots are worse than the 2002
Gujarat riots," Alvi said."It is the responsibility of the UP government."
Alvi,an RS member,said he visited a relief camp across the Loni border but was
then stopped by police.IANS

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              759 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   News Point

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Sonia Gandhi, Rahul to visit riot-hit Muzaffarnagar next week to assess
situation

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 12 -- Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Vice President Rahul
Gandhi will visit trouble-torn Muzaffarnagar district next week to assess the
situation there. "Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Vice President Rahul
Gandhi will visit Muzaffarnagar next week to meet the riot-hit people and assess
the situation there", Congress General Secretary and in-charge of party affairs
in the state, Madhusudan Mistry told reporters in Muzaffarnagar.

Demanding stern action against all those found responsible for the Muzaffarnagar
riots, he said those instigating violence cannot be allowed to go scot free on
the ground that they are workers of political parties or are public servants.

To a question, Mistry said that there are many conditions for the Centre to
dismiss a state government and as of now the Centre is not going to do so. He
also alleged that BJP workers from Gujarat had a hand in instigating riots in
Muzaffarnagar. Demanding setting up of relief camps for riot-hit people, he said
if the state government did not know how to run them, they could be given tips
on it. The Congress leader said that it is wrong to say that there had been no
riots in Gujarat since 2002. "After 2002, 52 people have been killed in Gujarat
in such incidents", he claimed, adding that in the run up to elections, Gujarat
government first ignored minor incidents and later when things went out of
control, they gave it the shape of communal riots.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from News Point. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                          Copyright 2013 NewsPoint TV
                              All Rights Reserved


                              760 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

First guilty plea in Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Vancouver Province; Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 226  words

DATELINE: COQUITLAM, B.C.


A Coquitlam man is the first to enter a guilty plea for his involvement in the
Stanley Cup riot.

In a red jail-issue outfit, Ryan Dickinson, 20, entered guilty pleas at
Vancouver Provincial Court Friday on charges of participating in a riot and
breach of his recognizance. Dickinson was held in custody pending a Feb. 7
sentencing date.

In early December, Dickinson was among the first group of people to be charged
for his alleged involvement in the June 15 mayhem. At the time of the riot,
Dickinson was on a court-ordered curfew and was dealing with an aggravated
assault charge that happened in 2010.

After being arrested he was charged with participating in a riot, two counts of
mischief and breach of an undertaking.

On Friday, Crown prosecutor Patti Tomas-son dealt with the riot and the breach
offences and a day was set aside for the sentencing on those charges.

The Crown also continued to inform the court that there will be an application
to have the sentencing televised.

During the Stanley Cup riot, a drunken mob flipped cars, lit them on fire,
smashed store windows and looted stores. The Vancouver Police Department has
been analyzing more than 1,500 hours of video footage they gathered from the
infamous night. So far Vancouver police have recommended to Crown 215 criminal
charges against 80 individuals who they allege participated in the riot.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              761 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

London is burning;
Worst riots of a generation

BYLINE: DOUG SAUNDERS

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; UNREST IN BRITAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: LONDON


As the sun set Monday, the thick plumes of smoke rose across the London skyline,
from the northeast and south, for the third night running. For the first time in
three decades, London is burning.

The small crowds of very young men and women, of every skin colour, typically
dressed in almost identical hooded sweatshirts, were on the main streets of the
mainly poor neighbourhoods along the city's northeastern, southern and western
boundaries, engaged in running skirmishes with police, looting hundreds of
shops, setting dozens of buildings and houses ablaze.

The violence spread Monday night outside London, with serious eruptions of
violence in Birmingham and Liverpool, but the scale of events in the British
capital was unprecedented, and utterly overwhelmed the city's 32,000 police.
Almost exactly a year before the city plays host to the Olympic Games, the
conflagration has raised dark fears for the city's security.

This is the most extensive rioting Londoners have seen in a generation,
surpassing the scope of the huge race riots that paralyzed the city in the
1980s, with scores of fires and skirmishes spreading over Monday night into
Croydon in the far south, Camden Town in the north, Hackney in the east, Ealing
in the west, an unpredictable and seemingly random set of mass crime explosions
- but also the least comprehensible.

These are not race riots: Though they began, on Saturday afternoon, with a small
protest in Tottenham, north London, over the shooting of a dark-skinned man by
police under suspicious circumstances, they quickly became a much wider and less
purposeful explosion of youth criminality.

Tottenham was the site of the terrible Broadwater Farm riot of 1985, which also
began with a protest over a police shooting - but that was another London,
deeply divided along racial lines, with a furious and socially excluded
Caribbean community battling an all-white and explicitly racist police force.
This week, by contrast, both the rioters and the police are multicoloured.

Nor are these explicitly political riots: There is no message, no motive, no
cause, no slogan. Efforts by some opposition politicians to link these events to
Prime Minister David Cameron's spending cuts have been met with incredulity in
the affected neighbourhoods, where those cuts have not yet had any municipal
effect.

But this is clearly an event with far deeper causes than simple random
hooliganism. A night of protesting and looting in one neighbourhood is not an
unusual phenomenon in London, where a certain sort of mass drink-fuelled petty
crime and low-level rioting never lies far beneath the surface. But three
nights, spread across a dozen large neighbourhoods covering the entire expanse
of this city of 10 million with scores of buildings set alight   this is an
event of a much different magnitude.

There are some things uniting the London rioters. Almost all are under 20.
Police reported that the youngest arrested over the weekend was 11 years old,
and that almost all were born in the 1990s.

And most, according to their own accounts in interviews and Facebook postings,
come from the same neighbourhoods they are looting and burning: Mostly poor
neighbourhoods, thick with public-housing towers and short on employment
opportunities.

"I think that there was disillusionment among some segments of the rioters,"
said Heidi Alexander, the Member of Parliament for Lewisham, south London, where
huge fires and large-scale rioting erupted Monday night. "There are high levels
of youth unemployment in my district, they have trouble staying on in work or
getting education, and they get caught up in this."

Whether the thousands of rioters actually did express disillusionment - some did
say they were angry at police or the world, but many appeared gleeful or greedy
- it is clear that most had nothing else to do with themselves, and no reason to
fear or feel responsible for the consequences of their actions.

This is a chronic problem in Britain, which has a "lost generation" of young
high-school dropouts far larger than most other Western countries.

One European Union study this year found that 17 per cent of Britain's youth are
classified as "NEETs" - for Not in Employment, Education or Training, in other
words high-school dropouts with no prospects of employment - the fourth-highest
percentage in the European Union. There are 600,000 people under 25 in Britain
who have never had a day of work.

Why these disenfranchised youth so explosively made their presence known in such
a devastatingly violent way, and how this will all end, is not yet understood.
But it puts a dark punctuation mark on what had, until this weekend, been
London's brightest modern era.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              762 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday

Montenegrin police blame opposition, church leaders for Kosovo rally "riots"

LENGTH: 378 words


Text of report by Montenegrin TV on 14 October

[Presenter] The police administration has said due to last night's riots [at the
protest rally over the Montenegrin government's recognition of Kosovo's
independence] seven people have charged with violent behaviour, while 26 people
have been detained for violating the law on public order and peace against whom
there will be a request for filing misdemeanour charges. The police
administration revealed the names of the suspects. The police administration
said that the turn of events showed the responsibility of the organizers of the
rally. During the riots, 26 policemen were injured, while 11 citizens sought
medical assistance in the accident and emergency ward.

[Unnamed reporter] Representatives of the organizers failed to stop the
possibility of the incitement of destructive riots even though they had the
opportunity to do this when a group of people, on a number of occasions during
the rally, called on the other rally participants, shouting, bring the
government down, accompanied with swearing and insults directed at the police.
On the contrary, some of the speakers openly called for the incitement of riots
during their speeches, with Mr Amfilohije [Serbian Orthodox Church's
Metropolitan of Montenegro and the Littoral] saying everything is in God's and
now it is in your hands, after which the riots began. Persons wearing caps and
balaclavas, carrying baseball bats, boxes and other objects could be noticed in
a number of groups during the rally, clearly prepared for clashes with the
police and the outbreak of riots. The fact that the destructive riots erupted
once the speakers put forward their political and other stances shows there is a
possibility this scenario was prepared in advance, not just with the aim of
disturbing the public order and peace as much as possible, but with a view to
compromising the security situation in Podgorica and elsewhere [in the country].
The Montenegrin Assembly [Serb People's Party] deputy and member of the
[parliamentary] committee for security and defence, Mr Dobrilo Dedeic, whose
role was chief of rally security, and Serb People's Party [SNS] leader Andrija
Mandic bear special responsibility.

Source: TV Crna Gora, Podgorica, in Serbian 1730 gmt 14 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              763 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Muslims get carrot, stick from Akhilesh

LENGTH: 629  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Jan. 4 -- The Samajwadi Party and the Akhilesh Yadav government in
Uttar Pradesh have developed a carrot-and-stick approach when dealing with the
state's Muslim minority - carrots for the rich and educated Muslims,
particularly clerics, and a tough stick for the poor masses in the community.
The party sincerely believes that this strange policy will pay rich dividends in
the coming Lok Sabha elections.

In the past few weeks, UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and his father Mulayam
Singh Yadav, who heads the Samajwadi Party, have been rather cruel towards the
Muslim masses but have spared no efforts to pamper the affluent Muslims. The
carrot-and-stick policy unfolded recently when Mulayam Singh Yadav issued a
statement that those living in the riot relief camps in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli
districts of the state were not riot victims but were riot conspirators. "They
belong to the Congress and the BJP and are being paid to continue living there,"
he said at a party meeting.

The state administration took a cue from the senior Yadav's remarks and ordered
a crackdown on relief camps. Hundreds of Muslim families that had lost all in
the riot were, once again rendered homeless in the winter chill. Bulldozers
flattened the tents and the riot-affected families' hopes too.

Ishrat Jahan, one of the riot victims, sobbed bitterly as she stood with three
children by her side and a seven-month-old infant in her arms. She had lost her
husband to the riots, her house was burnt down and now she has nowhere to go.
"They could at least have waited for winter to get over. Where will I go with my
children?" she cried.

While the riot victims are being further victimised, those who allegedly
instigated the riots are being allowed to roam free. The Akhilesh government is
simultaneously doling out sops to the rich and powerful amongst the minority.
The Uttar Pradesh government is preparing to withdraw a case of provoking
violence through inflammatory speeches that was filed against Muslim leaders,
including BSP MP Qadir Rana, during the Muzaffarnagar riots.

According to official sources, the Law Department has asked the district
magistrate to send a report on withdrawal of the case filed against the minority
leaders for allegedly inciting violence by making inflammatory speeches in a
panchayat meeting at Khala Par that later led to the riots.

The case was filed against BSP MP Qadir Rana, MLAs Noor Saleem and Maulana
Jameel Ahmad, former Congress minister Saeed-uz-Zaman and his son Salman Saeed,
community leaders Asad Zama, Naushad Qureshi, trader Ahsan, advocate Sultan
Mashir and others. These Muslim leaders will soon be absolved of all crime,
while innocent Muslims will continue to pay the price of mindless violence.

The clerics of various sects and schools are regularly felicitated at the Chief
Minister's residence and their photographs are posted to the media. Two retired
Muslim journalists have been honoured with ministerial berths in the state
government. The state government has done another impossible feat; that of
posting Muslim officers to the posts of chief secretary and DGP. Officers of the
same caste or community have never before in the state's history, occupied the
two coveted posts at the same time.

A senior Muslim minister in the UP government explained the carrot and stick
policy thus: "It is the clerics who arrange for votes in the community and we
cannot ignore them. By giving important positions and posts to Muslims, we are
sending out a clear message to the community that it is the SP alone that cares
for you."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              764 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday
                               Bangalore Edition

ET Cursor Teesta Setalvad as an Agent of the State

BYLINE: TK ARUN

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 591 words


How does a jihadi view Teesta Setalvad? As someone who tries to hoodwink Muslims
into believing that the Indian state machinery will be fair to them, that, with
perseverance, it would yield them justice. She is an obstacle to mass migration
of alienated Muslims to the path of armed rebellion against the state.

The conviction she has secured

against 184 Hindus for the 2002 Gujarat riots gives her version of the Indian
state credibility. She is an enemy of the jihadi cause and an agent of the
Indian state.

Given the systematic, take-noprisoners vehemence with which the state (the Union
and Gujarat governments, the CBI, the CBI court) are going after activist Teesta
Setalvad, one would think she is an enemy of the state. Provided one is not a
jihadi. From the point of view of a jihadi seeking to recruit aggrieved Indian
Muslims for the global war to establish a Caliphate, Setalvad is an agent of the

Indian state, working feverishly to reinforce its credibility and encourage
victims of injustice to seek redemption within the legal structure.

In India, communal riots have a long history . The history of convictions for
riot killings is as anaemic as the riots have been bloody .Things proved
different with the 2002 Gujarat riots. This is largely to Teesta Setalvad's
credit. Her energy and activism prevented the prosecution of killers from
suffering the plight of most riot cases \xAD collapse from poor prosecution,
biased judicial proceedings, intimidated witnesses who turn hostile, long delays
and the enervating sense of futility that overcomes riot survivors whose
testimony could.

Teesta Setalvad and her NGOs worked to rally witnesses, give them moral support
to stay the course. Mistrials were challenged.Trials were shifted outside
Gujarat. The Supreme Court was per

suaded to monitor investigations.All this bore fruit. Many were convicted, 184
Hindus and 65 Muslims.The convicted included a minister in the Narendra Modi-led
Gujarat government, Maya Kodnani and many other activists of the Sangh Parivar.

This shows that the Indian state system can be fair and deliver justice. This is
very important for maintaining the legitimacy of the state, whose constitutional
imperative is to uphold secular values but whose individual organs are often
under pressure to act with prejudice and bias towards one community or the
other.

Identity politics played not just by the Sangh Parivar but also by the Congress,
the Communists and most regional parties tends to bend and distort the conduct
of the state, eroding it of secular legitimacy .

Once a minority group loses faith in the capacity of the state to offer it not
just security but also dignity

and equal opportunity , the result is schism running to violence and culminating
in civil war, as we saw in Sri Lanka.

With jihad now a trans-national ideology and active enterprise with zealous
executives-cumexecutioners across the world and particularly in India's
neighbourhood, attempts to denude the Indian state of its secular legitimacy
amounts to letting loose the dogs of war on India.

In other words, communal hate and violence not just fail the ambition to
translate India's age-old tradition of accommodative cultural diversity into a
modern nationstate, thus attacking the Indian state from within, but also lay
the nation open to attack from without. Setalvad's work, in this context, is
profoundly pro-India. Attacks on her, designed to punish her for past success
and to preempt further perseverance, are anti-national. But of course, this is
only a non-jihadi perspective.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              765 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

Ministers condemned over 'insulting' response to riots report

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 512 words

ABSTRACT

Coalition's reaction to independent panel's findings on unrest in 2011
criticised as being 'appalling and totally inadequate'

FULL TEXT

The government was accused of insulting the memory of the five people who lost
their lives during the summer riots two years ago by burying a half-hearted
response to the independent report of the panel on riots victims and
communities.

David Lammy, the Labour MP for Tottenham, where the unrest initially developed,
said the response was "appalling and totally inadequate".

The panel was set up by David Cameron and Nick Clegg in response to four days of
riots, as well as pressure from the Labour leader Ed Miliband, who had been
calling for a judge-led independent inquiry. It reported in March 2012 with 63
specific recommendations.

The final coalition response was published a fortnight ago without any
accompanying press release. No attempt is made in the government response to
address any of the specific recommendations made by the panel.

Speaking on BBC's World This Weekend, Lammy said the coalition response to the
riots that had gripped British cities deserved a debate in the Commons and
suggested that members of the panel, as well as Miliband, did not even know the
response to their inquiry had even been published.

The bland response largely provides a checklist, explaining programmes the
government already has under way, such as the Pupil Premium, the Troubled
Families Programme, City Deals, the Youth Contracts for the young unemployed,
police reform, alcohol minimum prices and Nurse Family Partnerships.

The coalition response concluded: "Through our programme of action on reducing
crime and reoffending, supporting families, improving the education of our young
people and tackling unemployment we are helping to build stronger, more
resilient places."

At no point does it attempt to directly address the recommendations or say if
they are being accepted or rejected.

Lammy said: "When you look at the report, 39 of the 63 recommendations have not
even been addressed at all. It's an insult to the five people that lost their
lives. It is an insult to the many, many ordinary people that lost their shops,
lost their homes and lost their buildings.

"The public saw four days of burning in cities as far afield as London,
Birmingham and Manchester, and the government not been prepared to explain why
it is not prepared to accept the recommendations of its own inquiry. It is in
unacceptable, and frankly unprecedented in this country."

Lammy said the government had made no response to a host of specific
recommendations made by the panel, including data sharing between local
councils, pupil referral units, restorative justice and character building in
schools.

The communities minister Don Foster said what was important was the government's
action in this area, rather than whether it was seeking publicity for it.

He said the government had provided £190m provided through to schemes to get
High Streets going, introduced tougher knife crime punishments and street dance
programmes to get females out of gangs."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                              766 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

28 arrested over riots against birth controls

BYLINE: Josephine Ma in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 342 words


The central government has arrested 28  people for instigating three days of
rioting by thousands of people in seven towns against birth control measures in
Bobai county, Guangxi province .

In the first official acknowledgment of the riots that started last Thursday,
Xinhua reported yesterday that the 28 were arrested for "networking, persuading
and being involved in damaging properties" in the riots.

The Xinhua report said the riots  had been "settled" and 4,200 cadres were used
by Yulin city  and Bobai county governments to engage in "face-to-face
exchanges" and "resolve tension" in 28 towns.

A vice-chairman of Guangxi Autonomous Region had arrived in the county to settle
the riots, which put the rural backwater in the international limelight, for the
brutality of coercive abortions and the ransacking of the homes of residents who
could not afford to pay fines.

Xinhua quoted witnesses as saying the riots were triggered by arbitrary fines
and officials' brutal enforcement actions. It said 300  residents surrounded the
township government building in the town of Dungu last Thursday   and riots
erupted in six other towns over the following two days. At one time, 3,000
people surrounded a government building and mobbed the offices.

It quoted county chief Huang Shaoming  as saying some birth control officials
might have "stirred  discontent"  with their "problematic" ways of implementing
birth-control measures. However,  the government would press on with  its
policies.

A National Population and Family Planning Commission official  said an early
report sent to the central government said the residents were angry about fines
imposed on those who violated the one-child policy. He said he had not heard of
coercive measures such as forced abortions.

An article on a Bobai government website said the government had launched an
all-out campaign to reach birth control targets after it was given a "yellow
card" warning.

Officials would lose their chances of promotion or even their jobs if they
failed to meet birth-control targets.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              767 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Cops used plastic bullets; Weapon prohibited from crowd control use

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 376  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver's Emergency Response Team used its Arwen plastic bullet gun on rioters
during the June 15 Stanley Cup riot despite the weapon being prohibited from use
for crowd control, according to a technical report of the Stanley Cup riot
review.

Senior police commanders as well as those directing forces on the ground were
not aware that the ERT had brought the gun to the riot, and had not authorized
its use, according to the report's authors, Ottawa Deputy Police Chief Charles
Bordeleau and Insp. Mark Ford.

The gun became a central issue in the 1994 Stanley Cup riot when a round struck
a rioter in the head, leaving him with brain damage.

The victim, Ryan Berntt, unsuccessfully sued for damages. However the police
department subsequently changed its policies, prohibiting the gun from being
used for crowd control but allowing the ERT to use it in other emergency
situations.

There was no mention of the unauthorized use of the Arwen gun in the overall
review of the response to the riot written by co-chairmen Douglas Keefe and John
Furlong and released earlier this week. Nor was Bordeleau and Ford's
recommendation that VPD reassess the value of the gun in crowd control included
in the main report.

"In this instance, and in light of the concerns in the 1994 Riot Report about
the use of the Arwen, its use should have been pre-authorized by Silver
Command," Bordeleau and Ford said in their report, which was attached as an
appendix to the Keefe/Furlong review.

Silver Command was a tactical-level inspector with overall responsibility for
the police response to the riot.

The officers found a number of other problems when they reviewed the city's
public safety plan for the 2011 Stanley Cup Final, including confusion over
command structures, lack of co-ordination between police agencies, fire and
ambulance and mistakes by senior city staff over site security.

They noted that police planners initially opposed city plans for a "live site"
downtown and wanted it moved outside the city's core. When city officials
insisted it stay downtown, police proceeded with a public security plan.

Bordeleau and Ford made 34 findings and 51 recommendations, some of which were
covered broadly in the 53 recommendations Keefe and Furlong made in their main
review.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: The Citizen, File; A riot officer watches as  two police cars burn
during the game 7 Stanley Cup hockey riot in  downtown Vancouver.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              768 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Young Witness

                                January 1, 2015

Riots feature in new SBS series

BYLINE: Edwina Mason

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 373  words


You may recall the rather formidible yet learned character Peter FitzSimons
descending on the town last year.

For the two or so days he was in Young - distinguishable in either bush hat or
trademark red bandanna - he wandered streets, rural roads, museums, gullies and
even paddocks as part of his efforts to document the Lambing Flat Riots of 1861.

This all explodes in full living colour on television screens this Sunday night
when The Great Australian Race Riot premieres on SBS One at 8.30pm.

The first episode of the threepart documentary series chronicles the race riots
that characterised the early days of settlement in Australia, particularly
around the discovery of gold.

Here is where you gain terrific insight into the politics that triggered this
bloody event in our history - from the state's political epicentre in Sydney's
Macquarie Street to the steps of the local high school - the villains in the
plot are exposed.

Local historian Kim Johnson also features and gets to talk about how Young was
the wildest town in the world - and share his vast knowledge of the local
goldfields. A knowledge that has now moved south to Victoria with Kim and his
family.

Throughout the series, in his inimitable style, FitzSimons exposes heroes and
villains on a journey that spans more than 170 years, and the breadth of the
country.

Along the way, he demonstrates how mobs of every ethnicity have transformed our
nation.

FitzSimons sets out from the sands of Cronulla beach, site of Australia's most
notorious recent race riot, to quickly reveal that this riot was no aberration.

He visits original riot locations retracing both the social context and the path
each mob takes, be they Japanese, British, Timorese, Russians, Italians,
Yugoslav, Iranian, or Indigenous Australians.

Each time, FitzSimons reveals how Australia is left changed in the riot
aftermath ' sometimes for worse, but surprisingly often, with a new, more
tolerant identity.

In this shocking, heartfelt, and at times humorous journey, FtizSimons shows
that The Great Australian Race Riot is a consistently revealing window into who
we are ' and what kind of Australia we want to be.

We're not into promoting television programs but for the local relevance, this
is worth a look.

LOAD-DATE: January 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              769 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-beauty queen pleads guilty to role in riot; Participation in Stanley Cup riot
at 'low end of scale'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A former beauty queen whose crowning as Miss Congeniality made her one of the
highest-profile suspects in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot has pleaded guilty, and
her lawyer has suggested the woman's international notoriety has gone far beyond
what her case deserves.

Sophie Laboissonniere, who was 20 at the time of the June 2011 riot, was not in
court Monday, when her lawyer entered the plea on her behalf.

The Richmond resident was among the first batch of suspects charged after the
riot. Media reports quickly identified her as the winner of Miss Congeniality at
a local beauty pageant, sending her name and photo across the country and
farther afield.

She was charged with one count of participating in a riot and one count of
breaking and entering. She pleaded guilty to the riot charge, while the
break-and-enter charge will be stayed by the Crown once she is sentenced, said
her lawyer, David Baker.

The court has yet to hear what exactly Laboissonniere did as rioters torched
cars, smashed windows and looted stores around her. Those details will come out
at a sentencing hearing later this year, which she must attend, Baker said.

"I don't think it's appropriate for me to be commenting on the facts now, but I
can say this: compared to the vast majority of people charged here, her
participation in this riot was at the very low end of the scale," Baker told
reporters outside provincial court.

"She has received a level of notoriety that goes way beyond the offence she
committed. She's stuck with that for a long time."

When asked why Laboissonniere did not appear at the hearing, Baker said, "To
avoid this," as he faced a throng of reporters.

During Monday's brief court appearance, the Crown asked for a pre-sentence
report with a "psychological component." Neither the Crown nor Baker elaborated
on the reason for such a report.

The riot started in the dying minutes of Game 7 on June 15, 2011, as the
Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup to the Boston Bruins.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Vancouver Sun; Sophie Laboissonniere received  a high "level of
notoriety" for her role in the Stanley Cup riot,  her lawyer says.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              770 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Lack of robust police response led to more riots'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 638 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across England, an independent report has found.

The report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action
is taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said in a news
conference: "Our findings support the view that had the police response in
Tottenham and more widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have
spread elsewhere in England.

"Our research has also led us to conclude that riots of this nature will happen
again unless immediate action is taken and we set out a number of
recommendations in our report." The interim report from the panel detailed the
"sometimes horrifying and tragic" accounts of people's experiences of the
disturbances.

The study found there was no one single motivating factor for the riots.

"We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers to a desire to
attack society," it said.

The report recommended that police authorities should "immediately" review their
emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on the scale of
the August riots.

Other recommendations included an overhaul of the 1886 Riot Damages Act to
ensure that victims of the riots receive compensation quickly.

The panel had not heard from anyone who had received a payment under the Act,
with forecasts that by March 2012 "barely half" of the smallest and only one in
10 of the largest claims will have been paid.

The report called for the insurance industry to tackle cases where service has
been poor.

It also said stop and search needed "immediate attention" to ensure community
confidence was not undermined. This followed complaints from many people that
police stop and search was "consistently" carried out without courtesy.

Victims should be able to confront rioters who committed crimes against them,
the report said, and service personnel who protected communities at "great risk"
should be honoured.

There should also be "clear plans" to help cut the risk of reoffending by
convicted rioters, the report added.

The report estimated that between 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved"
in the riots between August 6 and August 10.

More than 5,000 crimes were committed, including five fatalities, 1,860
incidents of arson and criminal damage, 1,649 burglaries, 141 incidents of
disorder and 366 incidents of violence against the person. The final bill could
reach around pounds 500m, including up to pounds 300m of claims under the Riot
Damages Act and pounds 50m costs to police, the report said.

Communities Secretary Eric Pickles welcomed the report.

"The riots which took place in our towns and cities in August were shocking acts
of criminality which ruined businesses, brought destruction to our streets and
made people feel unsafe in their own homes," he said.

"But we also saw the law-abiding majority reclaiming the streets by protecting
friends and neighbours, and helping with the recovery.

"As the Prime Minister stated in the aftermath of these disturbances, it is
vital that we fully understand and tackle the root causes and do what we can to
prevent the scenes from being repeated."

The Association of British Insurers (ABI) rejected criticism of the insurance
industry.

Nick Starling, ABI director of general insurance, said: "We do not accept that
insurers have not performed well in response to the August riots.

"Insurers pulled out all the stops to help policyholders affected and expect to
pay out around pounds 200m to help people get back on their feet."

In a lengthy response to the report, the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) said
it had supported the work of the panel, including providing interviews with
officers involved in the policing of the disorder.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              771 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Valkyries suffer first loss in history

BYLINE: Murray McCormick, Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: REGINA


Riot 15, Valkyries 7

The post-game celebration by the Regina Riot on Sunday was unlike any other in
the short history of the Western Women's Canadian Football League.

The Riot defeated the Saskatoon Valkyries 15-7 before a franchise-high 535
spectators at Mosaic Stadium. The win was the first by the Riot over the
Valkyries since the women's full-contact tackle football league opened in 2011.
It was also the first loss ever for the Valkyries, who are the two-time
defending league champions and had won 12 straight regular-season and playoff
games prior to Sunday's defeat.

"It means a lot," quarterback Aimee Kowalski said after the Riot improved its
record to 2-0 and the Valkyries fell to 1-1. "It has been three years now that
we have been going after them. Every time we've tried to get a little bit closer
to them, but now we've finally reached our goal. This makes it a lot more
interesting and more fun to play in the league because you never know who the
champion is going to be at the end of the season."

Sunday's victory was an example of the strides the Riot has taken since losing
56-6 to the host Valkyries in the first league game for both teams on May 22,
2011. The Valkyries defeated the Riot 42-2 in their next regular-season meeting
and 36-6 in the playoffs. The Riot showed signs of closing the gap in 2012.
Regina was beaten 36-6 and 35-26 by Saskatoon in the regular season and 35-21 in
the Prairie Conference final.

"Hats off to our coaches because they put a lot of time into this game and they
have really come together," Kowalski said. "They understand our weaknesses and
strengths. In the past we were coached a lot like we were boys. Now we're being
coached like we're adults."

The Riot earned the win without head coach Darren Fisher on the sidelines; he's
out of the country on business.

"We missed him and we need him back badly," said Riot quarterbacks coach Jack
Upshall. "What (the win) really means is it's another step in the progress
toward the championship. It's just one game and it's not the whole season. They
understand it and they know there will be another game against Saskatoon."

The Valkyries seemed to take their first defeat in stride.

"It's a good thing because you can always learn more from a loss than a win,"
said Saskatoon quarterback Candace Bloomquist. "It's good for any team to
experience it and it's a great opportunity for us to learn from it. It's good
that it happened early in the season and we can still make some adjustments."

The Riot relied on its ground game to grind out the win over the Valkyries.
Carmen Agar led the Riot with 17 carries for 126 rushing yards and a 28-yard
touchdown. Amanda Hungle had 15 carries for 49 yards and a one-yard touchdown
run. Saskatoon conceded a safety in the third quarter to account for the
remainder of the scoring.

Marci Kiselyk had a 19-yard touchdown reception for Saskatoon. Julie David was
leading rusher with 18 carries for 84 yards.

"I'm super pumped of how our girls responded because they have never faced
adversity in a football game before," said Valkyries head coach Jeff Yausie. "We
had a chance to win in the end, but (the Riot) made more plays than we did."

The Riot is to play the host Winnipeg Nomads on Sunday and then conclude the
regular season on May 26 in Saskatoon. Fisher is expected to return for the game
against the Nomads. Playoffs are set for June 8 and Mosaic Stadium is the site
of league final on June 15.

"As long as we win the one at the end of the season, that's the one that really
matters," Kowalski said. "(Sunday's win) gives us the little extra belief that
we can do it again and again."

mmccormick@leaderpost. com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: *** The Valkyries' player named in Monday's paper was incorrectly
identified. The player is Julene Friesen. The StarPhoenix regrets the error. ***


GRAPHIC: Michael Bell, Regina Leader-Post; Regina Riot's Robyn Tulloch tackles
Saskatoon Valkyries Jacquie Tatlow during a game held at Mosaic Stadium in
Regina on Sunday. The Riot beat the Valkyries 15-7.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              772 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Riot ready for second season

BYLINE: Murray McCormick, Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 738 words


The Regina Riot is looking to reap the benefits of the team's first year of
full-contact football.

In 2011, the Riot was 2-2 during the squad's inaugural season in the Western
Women's Canadian Football League. The Riot kicks off its second season Sunday in
Saskatoon against the host Valkyries. Adrienne Zuck, a safety who has been
converted to linebacker, has noticed a difference in the Riot in the team's
second season compared to 2011.

"Last year was the first year for our coaches coaching women,'' Zuck said. "They
weren't sure about the experience about football and there was a lot of learning
from both sides. It was totally different this year with the rookie camp and
everything else. Most of us knew exactly what we needed to do and what positions
we were playing. This is a skill-building year. The learning pace is a lot
faster. A lot of plays and calls are much more detailed than last year.''

Jon Baxter, head coach of the Riot, adopted a fundamental approach this year
with the women even though it was the second season for the team's veterans.

"We went from a sandlot team in 2011 to an actual organized football team this
year,'' Baxter said. "Because we had nearly as many veterans as rookies, we went
to basics. It started with them learning how to stand properly and we worked our
way up from there. We did a lot of work in the gymnasium without equipment so
they understood what was required once they did get their equipment on. It
worked really well for us. A lot of girls from last year learned some new
techniques.''

The Riot has 41 players listed on the team's roster this season. Baxter said
that 26 of those players are returning from 2011.

"At the beginning of training camp I noticed a huge difference between the
rookies and veterans,'' Baxter said. "Right now not so much except the veterans
have more game savvy. They understand the speed of the game and what is
required.''

The Riot tuned up for Sunday's game last Saturday by going 3-0 in a four-team
pre-season tournament in Edmonton. Baxter felt the experience helped the Riot,
but playing in an actual game will be different for the first-year players.

"The speed of the jamboree was one thing, but the speed of a game will be even
more,'' Baxter said. "The veterans were able to pass that information on to the
rookies. Things take place a lot faster than they expect.''

The Riot is expecting a stiff test in the team's first game of the regular
season. Last year, the Valkyries defeated the Riot 36-6 in a semifinal en route
to beating the Edmonton Storm 35-7 in the league final. Saskatoon also beat the
Riot 56-6 and 42-2 during the regular season. Zuck is still looking forward to
playing the league's best team in the season opener.

"Their standings have shown that they are the best team in the league,'' Zuck
said. "You can say it's a good thing because they will show us what we need to
do and what we need to work on. It would be nice to play a team that we've
beaten before because we could build up our morale. I'm just excited to play.''

Due to the renovations at Mosaic Stadium, the Riot won't play at home until June
10 when the team plays host to the Winnipeg Nomads Wolf Pack. On May 27, the
Riot is in Brandon to play the Manitoba Fearless. The Riot concludes the regular
season on June 17 against the visiting Valkyries.

REGINA RIOT

2012 ROSTER

No. Name Pos.

5 Burdeen Starkey QB

6 Claire Dore WR

7 Mallory Starkey RB

20 Pam Ewanishin LB

21 Wanda Uhren DB

22 Aimee Kowalski QB

23 Carmen Agar RB

24 Adrienne Zuck LB

25 Shelby Moran LB

26 Courtney Tafelmeyer WR

28 Robyn Tulloch WR

30 Bonnie Soerensen DB

33 Teisha Bray RB

34 Kate Rogal WR

39 Ciara Bray LB

50 Becky Wallis DL

52 Bonnie Riffel OL

53 Madison Genoway OL

54 Pam Grzyb OL

55 Ashley Winter OL

56 Ashley Viklund OL

57 Kaitlin Fisher DL

58 Trisha Jattansingh OL

71 Erin Banbury RB

72 Louise Kezama DL

74 Diane Allen DL

75 Angelique Chenard OL

76 Karen Almasi DL

77 Jennifer Fahlman DB

79 Paige Mitchell DB

80 Melissa Park DB

81 Lisa Ziegler LB

82 Megan Jalbert WR

84 Jessica Gawley DB

85 Sherry Hill DL

86 Samantha Bray WR

87 Alisha Beler WR

88 Sarah Mercer LB

89 Amanda Tafelmeyer DL

90 Crystal Thiessen P/K

97 Angie Douville TE

Head Coach: Jon Baxter.

Assistant Coaches: Rick Davis, Darren Fisher, Kris Davis, Kris Hadesbeck , Corey
Uhren, Tim Douville, Jack Upshall, Dwight Vanstone, Mike Barth.

Team Doctor: Dr Megan Dash.

Follow Murray McCormick on Twitter at https: //twitter.com/ murraylp
mmccormick@leaderpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Don Healy, Leader-Post; Regina Riot's Adrienne Zuck.; Don Healy,
Leader-Post;  Regina Riot's (left to right) Courtney Tafelmeyer, Megan Jalbert
and Ciara Bray at practice in Regina on Friday.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              773 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Have your say on city riot payouts

BYLINE: NEIL ELKES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 287 words


RESIDENTS and businesses who feel they got a raw deal over compensation
following Birmingham's 2011 riots can give evidence to a new Government-backed
enquiry on Friday.

The Riot Damages Act, written in 1886, was dubbed woefully out-of-date by the
Home Office following the 2011 summer riots.

There were particular problems with the speed and level of compensation, on one
side, and an issue with frivolous claims, on the other.

So the Home Office commissioned an independent review led by former civil
servant Neil Kinghan, who is coming to Birmingham to hear evidence on Friday.

The riots, triggered by the shooting of Mark Duggan in Tottenham in August 4,
2011, quickly spread to other parts of London and major cities.

In the West Midlands, Birmingham, West Bromwich and Wolverhampton all saw
widespread disorder and looting over several nights.

Among the victims was Jewellery Quarter newsagent Ajay Bhatia who suffered
£20,000-worth of damage to his Newhall Street business. After a year, he almost
gave up because the business had not recovered, but Ajay was persuaded to
persevere.

The review has won the backing of the Association of British Insurers, which
says it paid out £200 million following the riots.

ABI director Nick Starling said: "The Government must review and update the Act
to ensure it reflects the needs of today's society.

"We need to make sure that compensating riot victims is the priority, but the
outdated Act means the process is too slow, too bureaucratic and leaves too many
people unable to get on with their lives."

The open meetings are being held at the Council House, Victoria Square, on
Friday. Businesses are invited from 4pm to 5.30pm and residents can have their
say between 7pm and 8.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot police during the troubles in BIRMINGHAM city centre in 2011. Many
shops and businesses were damaged or looted.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              774 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

'89 Bhagalpur riots panel to give final report soon: CM

BYLINE: Faizan Ahmad

SECTION: PATNA

LENGTH: 295 words


<p>

PATNA: Justice (retired) NN Singh Commission, which had been set up by the state
government in February 2006 to reinvestigate certain cases of 1989 Bhagalpur
communal riots, will submit its final report very soon. This was disclosed by
chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday. The riots had claimed about 1,000
lives.</p>

<p>

"The inquiry commission will submit its report and recommendations very soon,"
the CM said while referring to his government's efforts to reopen certain cases
which had been closed on the plea of lack of evidence. "For the first time in
the country, closed communal riot cases were reopened and properties of victims,
which had been forcibly grabbed or purchased from unwilling owners, have been
restored to the riot victims," Nitish claimed.</p>

<p>

The commission inquired into 93 cases in which riot victims had sold their
immovable properties out of fear. In 18 cases, the properties have been restored
at the government's initiative. Similarly, as many as 29 closed criminal cases
were reinvestigated and in 23 cases charge sheets have been filed against the
culprits.</p>

<p>

"Cases which were wrongly recommended to be closed by the investigating and
supervising officers, were re-examined and responsibility has been fixed to
start disciplinary action against the guilty officers," Nitish said and added
the state government was paying a monthly pension of Rs 2,500 from September
2007 to the kin of 370 dead or traceless persons in the riots. Earlier, only one
time ex-gratia assistance was paid to the riot victims. "Our initiative has
acted like a balm on the old wounds," he added.</p>

<p>

The commission had been granted several extensions during the last
five-and-a-half years to complete its work.</p>

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              775 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              June 27, 2016 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

New riot gearâ[#x20ac]¨irks metro cops

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words


Yet another eThekwini municipal tender has come under scrutiny after a "security
and tourism" company provided R1.6 million worth of protective riot gear for the
metro police public order unit.

Metro officers are complaining that the gear is â[#x20ac]¨oversized and
restricts their movement, especially at the crotch. They are also questioning
the quality of the material, saying it does not meet specifications.

Durban-based Intense Protection and Tourist Services was awarded a section 32
contract for the "supply and delivery of security equipment - non lethal weapons
and crowd control equipment". The gear is essential for the unit as it tackles
an increasing number of violent protests sweeping the eThekwini metro before the
August 3 local government elections.

Disgruntled police are refusing to don the gear.

City spokeswoman Tozi Mthethwa confirmed that the acquired gear had defects but
said the municipality was "satisfied with the quality of the goods supplied".

"It's too large; members can't move in this thing. They are refusing to take the
gear," a constable complained.

A breakdown of the contract indicates metro police requirements: Rappel gloves
(R184 000); riot forearm and leg protector (R300 000); riot control groin
protector â[#x20ac]¨(R110 000); helmets (R136 000); upper body riot protection
(R360 000); heavy hood with kevlar R160 000; and riot control shield (R399 000).

The quantity was 200 per requirement.

Approached for comment, metro police operations head Steve Middleton - who is
responsible for the unit's crowd management - said he was aware of the matter,
which was being addressed by the "relevant role-players".

He referred further queries to the city's communications unit.

Enraged

Metro police sources said city officers were enraged that the contract had been
awarded to "a security and tourism company".

"Members are highly unhappy."

Mthethwa emphasised that the section 32 procurement process was legal. Section
32 is used when services are procured using a contract secured by another organ
of state.

"This tender was awarded to the service provider by the Passenger Rail Agency of
South Africa on September 3, 2014. However, the section 32 contract was awarded
on April 28, 2016," she said.

Mthethwa said the city was addressing the matter of the unhappiness among metro
police.

"This was addressed with the supplier and an agreement was reached to modify the
gear in question for no charge. A majority of the members who had reported
incorrect sizes have handed in their gear for modification."

In June last year the metro police used a similar procurement process to buy
R5.5 million worth of firearms. Exactly a year later, the guns have still not
been delivered, The Mercury understands.

Commenting on this in April, Mthethwa said an order had been placed with the
companies appointed and stock was expected "soon".

Intense Protection and Tourist Services owner, MG Nala had not responded to a
request for comment e-mailed to an address on his companies' website at the time
of publication. Attempts to reach him by telephone were also unsuccessful.

According to the MGN Group's website (Intense Protection is a subsidiary), the
company "specialises in Guarding/Asset Protection and VIP Protection/Executive
Security, CCTV, access control systems, private investigations". It also sells
security equipment such as armoured vehicles and bulletproof vests.
sihle.manda@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              776 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

Was Indian Mujahideen formed to avenge Gujarat riots?;
Not sure. But IM used riots to target Indian cities, say security experts

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 577  words


Ahmedabad: The recent statement of Congress leader Shakeel Ahmed that Indian
Mujahideen was formed to avenge the Gujarat riots, created a huge uproar forcing
the Congress to distance itself from Ahmed's statement.

Exactly five years ago, the IM had shot off an email minutes before the
Ahmedabad serial blasts on July 26, 2008. Addressing the minority community of
Gujarat, it said: "Do you still hesitate to fight? Just think how much you and
we have suffered during and after the riots."

Security experts believe that though the IM may not exactly have been formed to
avenge the Gujarat riots, it had definitely used the riots to target Indian
cities.

Investigators had found that the IM was born out of the Student Islamic Movement
of India (Simi). After the Gujarat module was busted in August 2008, the outfit
is not believed to be active. But sleuths fear that they can regroup easily.

"The outfit seems to be in a dormant state doing some underground activities
with the pressure to regroup," said a senior officer of the Gujarat Police.

Sleuths, however, are of the opinion that three militants - Abdul Subhan Qureshi
alias Tauqeer, Yasin Bhatkal and Riyaz Bhatkal - can be deadly once they come
out of hiding with renewed vigour. The Bhatkals are believed to be hiding in
Pakistan while Tauqeer is believed to be in the country trying to regroup the
IM.

Sources said that to carve IM out of Simi was, in fact, Tauqeer's brainchild. He
and Safdar Nagori, who is lodged in Sabarmati Jail at present, started it and
later recruited Abu Bashir, Sajid Mansuri, Qayamuddin Kapadia, Younus Nagori,
Fazal Rahman and many others to expand the group, and eventually, the Ahmedabd
serial blast took place (all the accused are currently in jail).

A police source, who was part of the investigation of the Ahmedabad blasts,
said: "Tauqeer was the instigator of the serial blasts. He had formed four wings
- planter, resource, media and material - to ensure a smooth operation." IM went
on to attack Jaipur, Bangalore and New Delhi in 2008 and Pune and Varanasi in
2010.

The number game

According to the detection of crime branch (DCB), Ahmedabad, there were a total
of 98 people, who were responsible for the serial blasts in Ahmedabad. Of them,
74 have been arrested while 24 are absconding.

Among the key absconders are Yasin Bhatkal, Riyaz Bhatkal, Abdul Subhan Qureshi
alias Tauqeer, Mohammad Arif Azam and Aamir Raza Khan (currently believed to be
hiding in Pakistan).

The blasts led to the death of 56 people while 242 were injured. A total of 24
bombs were planted in the city - of which two were defused. As many as 200
personnel of Gujarat Police were part of the investigation that spread across 10
states and continued for a very long time. Police records said that 16 people
planted 22 different bombs in 14 different police station areas of the city.

IM modules surfaced so far

Apart from Gujarat, there were Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya
Pradesh modules that were operating in the country till 2008, before the Gujarat
Police busted the first IM module. The Gujarat, MP and Maharashtra modules have
been completely busted while other modules are yet to be eradicated completely.
The Batla House encounter in Delhi busted the Delhi module of IM and avoided
terrorist attacks in Delhi. The module was headed by Abu Basher. The Karnataka
module was headed by a militant identified as Hafiz Hussain, while his
associates were Adnan and Tazuddin Mullah.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              777 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Cop who was injured in Azad Maidan riots, dies

BYLINE: Mateen Hafeez

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 187 words


MUMBAI: A 36-year-old police contable from Azad Maidan, who was injured in the
last year's August 11 riots at Azad Maidan, breathed his last on Thursday. While
his family say that the constable Santosh Hande died because of the injuries
sustained during the riots, policemen say he may have died due to some other
reason or delay in medication.

The force now says that Hande who was injured in the riots, was admitted to
hospital but later discharged. He did not seek treatment in the hospital. On the
day of the riots, Hande was accompanying DCP Ravindra Shisve at the ground. Soon
after the mob went on a rampage, Hande tried to intervene and was hit by the
angry mob. Though he was discharged from the hospital, he would get headaches
and neck pain.

A month after the riots, Hande was diagnosed with brain infection. Later, he
went in coma and suffered from blood infection. With no improvement, he was
taken to his native place in Sangli district. Hande's family is not sure whether
the department will be with them in time of crisis since Hande died few months
after the attack on him.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              778 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Youngsters grill leaders over city's riots shame

BYLINE: Jessica Winch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 224 words


A PANEL of young people have quizzed senior Birmingham officials about last
summer's riots.

The Future Melting Pot's Outreach Citizen's Inquiry placed witnesses including
Coun Paul Tilsley and Chief Constable Chris Sims in front of six young people
aged 15-24.

"We asked them about their views on the riots," said Alex Brown, Outreach
project manager. "Some said it was just criminality, others said it was a cry
for help from young people."

The panel asked questions based on the responses of 200 young people to a
questionnaire on the riots, which was conducted in January.

Mr Brown, 16, from Sutton Coldfield, said: "We found three main reasons why
young people took to rioting: boredom, lack of opportunities, and youth
unemployment."

He added that 90 per cent of respondents had a more negative view of the police
force after the riots, a figure he said had "shocked" Chief Constable Sims.

"He said he wanted to help us to connect with more young people," said Mr Brown.

The findings of the questionnaire and the inquiry will be presented on May 22 to
city officials.

Mr Brown said: "We have now spoken to the big players and they have all given
their support to our cause, which is to give young people a voice and a chance
to be heard."

For more information visit thefuturemeltingpot.co.uk or outreachproject
tfmp.wordpress.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Views on riots: Birmingham city centre last summer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              779 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                              June 12, 2016 Sunday

In poll-bound Punjab, SIT to re-examine 75 closed cases of 1984 anti-Sikh riots

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: India


India, June 12 -- The Centre's special investigation team (SIT) is set to reopen
and reinvestigate around 75 closed cases related to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in
the national capital, a move that could ring political resonance in poll-bound
Punjab.

The SIT will issue advertisements regarding these cases and ask victims and
witnesses to join the probe.

"Delhi had 237 anti-Sikh riot cases that were closed because of non-availability
of victims or lack of evidence. After reviewing their documents, the SIT has
decided to reopen about 75 cases so far," a government official involved in the
review process said on the condition of anonymity.

The riots consumed over 3000 lives across the country and over 2500 in Delhi
alone. Different estimates peg different number with some claiming 3000 deaths
in Delhi alone. Riots broke out after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards on October 31, 1984.

Delhi Police registered 587 cases in connection with the riots. Later, it closed
241 cases but four were reopened in 2006 and one in 2013, which led to the
conviction of 35 people. The rest of the 237 cases remained closed.

Delhi had 237 anti-Sikh riot cases that were closed because of non-availability
of victims or lack of evidence. After reviewing their documents, the SIT has
decided to re-examine about 75 cases so far.

Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had, on the first week of June, written
letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to expedite investigation into
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Kejriwal had called the SIT formed by the Centre to probe the riots "eyewash".
He asked Modi to consider winding up the SIT and allow the Delhi government to
set up a special investigation team for "proper investigation and justice for
the victims".

2016 marks the 32nd anniversary of the anti-Sikh massacre. AAP had alleged that
in these 32 years, 10 commissions and committees were formed but they only
eluded the victims. It was a long-standing demand of the Sikh community that an
SIT be set up.

But this new development may be seen as a bid for one upmanship between AAP and
BJP. While another important player in Punjab elections, the Congress could
perhaps point this to be a political move.

Alliance partners Shrimani Akali Dal (SAD) and BJP will be put to rest in 2017
state assembly elections, with new entrant in Punjab politics, AAP to be a
serious challenger.

Congress party which is now out of power for a decade in Punjab is also
attempting to make a comeback.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              780 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                               Telegraph Edition

CONS HAVE NO RIOT TO DO THIS

BYLINE: ANTHONY DOWSLEY, TOM MINEAR & JON KAILA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366  words


A PRISON smoking ban sparked a riot by inmates that was still raging last night
as riot police tried to quell the violence.

Up to 300 convicted criminals at Victoria's biggest remand centre armed
themselves with sticks, lit fires and smashed windows, causing prison staff and
visitors to be evacuated.

Some commandeered tractors in a tense stand off with riot police at the
Metropolitan Remand Centre in Ravenhall in Melbourne yesterday afternoon.

Heavily-armed police in riot gear backed by an armoured blast-proof vehicle
moved in to restore order at 3.30pm, but authorities had not gained full-control
late last night.

Rioting inmates were peppered with tear gas as they breached a control room. A
water-cannon was also unleashed. Some prisoners protected their identity by
donning masks, as a core group maintained the rage into the night.

It is understood members of the Hells Angels and -Comancheros are housed at the
prison and ripped down fences to reach each other.

The riot triggered a lockdown at nearby Port Phillip prison, where a fire was
lit in a prisoner's cell.

Corrections Victoria chief Jan Shuard said it was the biggest riot she had seen.
"It might be to do with the smoking ban that starts tomorrow," Ms Shuard said.
She said Corrections Victoria had planned for the smoking bans for 18-months
leading up to the ban starting today, July 1.

But she said her staff were not expecting such a violent reaction. Smoking is
banned in all Victorian prisons from today to protect the health of Corrective
Services workers. A similar ban will come into force in NSW on August 10.

Ms Shuard promised there would be a full investigation into how the riot started
and how the prisoners obtained weapons.

"We will thoroughly review how this came about, how we responded to it and what
we might need to do in the future," she said.

Authorities were forced to cordon off the prison with an air exclusion zone. A
police drone hovered over the jail as smoke billowed from inside.

The MRC has 200 staff and can house 1000 inmates.

A source said the canteen began running out of cigarettes about a week ago."The
crooks were at a flashpoint and the staff, who also can't smoke, were getting
testy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              781 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Riot over cigs ban

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 286  words


MELBOURNE: A smoking ban in jails sparked a riot raging into last night at
Victoria's biggest remand centre.

Up to 60 inmates began the riot which swelled into hundreds of prisoners
breaching a "secure inner perimeter" at the Metropolitan Remand Centre in
Ravenhall.

The security threat led to a mass evacuation of staff, guards and visitors as
chaos broke out about 12.20pm yesterday.

Inmates armed themselves with sticks, lit fires and smashed windows while
commandeered tractors and buggies in a tense stand-off.

Heavily-armed police in riot gear backed by an armoured blast proof vehicle
called the "bear cat" moved in to restore order at 3.30pm yesterday, but
authorities had not gained full-control late last night.

Rioting inmates were peppered with tear gas as they breached a control room. A
water-cannon was also unleashed.

Some prisoners protected their identity by donning masks with a core group
maintaining the rage into the night.

It is understood members of the Hells Angels and Comancheros are housed at the
prison and ripped down fences to reach each other.

The MRC riot triggered nearby Port Phillip prison to also go into lockdown where
a fire was lit in a cell.

Corrections Victoria said there was no threat to the public or any injuries
during the "disturbance" but prisons boss Jan Shuard later admitted it was the
biggest riot she was aware of.

"It might be to do with the smoking ban that starts tomorrow," Corrections
Commissioner Shuard said.

The husband of an MRC guard said prison officers were aware there would be a
riot on the eve of the smoking ban.

"At 8.30 this morning my wife rang and said there was going to be a riot," he
said."She said 'if you hear about a riot, don't worry, I'll be fine."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              782 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

Name Congress men involved in 1984 riots, Sikh groups tell Rahul

LENGTH: 282  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 30 -- Several Sikh groups on Thursday staged a protest outside
the Congress headquarters at 24, Akbar Road and demanded that Congress
Vice-President Rahul Gandhi reveal the names of party members who were involved
in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.


 In a recent interview to a TV news channel, Rahul had said "some Congress men"
were probably involved in the riots and "they have been punished for it".
 The protesters shouted anti-Congress slogans and held up black flags and
placards, one of which read: "CBI should question Rahul Gandhi for Congress
involvement in 1984 riots".
 "We want justice. We want to know who were the people involved in the riots,"
said one of the protesters.
 Asked about the Delhi government's decision to set up a Special Investigation
Team to probe the riots cases, he said: "We have been demanding an SIT for the
past 25 years. If Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is really with us, we welcome
him, but if he is doing politics, we would like to request him not to do so."
 The 200-odd demonstrators marched towards the Congress headquarters and managed
to break the first barricade. They were stopped, however, at the second
barricade by police. Many of them were detained and taken to Tughlaq Road police
station from where they were later released.
 In the interview, Rahul had insisted that the Congress government in 1984 "was
not aiding and abetting the riots" but had tried to stop the violence.
 Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar are facing allegations of
involvement in the riots that occurred in the aftermath of former PM Indira
Gandhi's assassination on October 31, 1984.
 The Delhi Police and the CBI have held probes into the riots.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              783 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Bihar BJP chief equivocal on A P J Abdul Kalam's claims

BYLINE: Abhay Singh

SECTION: PATNA

LENGTH: 489 words


PATNA: The take of former President A P J Abdul Kalam that former PM Atal Bihari
Vajpayee was 'asahaj (uncomfortable)' with his (Kalam's) visit to Gujarat in the
wake of communal riots there, notwithstanding, state BJP chief Dr C P Thakur on
Sunday took the ambivalent position of a politician on the matter, denying that
the former PM was in any way "uncomfortable" with Kalam's visit to Gujarat.

Dr Thakur, who was Union health minister at the time of the 2002 Gujarat riots,
said, "If communal riots take place in any state and its governor proposes to
visit the scene of riots, then the CM of the state concerned will definitely get
a little uncomfortable. Yet, I would say that PM Vajpayee was not at all
uncomfortable with the visit of Kalam."

Kalam's forthcoming book 'Turning Points: A Journey Through Challenges' has
opened a Pandora's box on quite a few points of critical turn in the country's
recent developments that unfolded during his tenure (2002-2007) when anyone at
Raisina Hill, political or non-political, would have been called upon to weigh
his or her options between reason, conscience and constitutionality to go by
independent thinking.

The Gujarat riots - besides the issue of inviting Sonia Gandhi to form the
government at the Centre in 2004 and dissolution of the Bihar assembly in March
2005, among others - constituted a challenging moment in overall national
context for Kalam. Whatever the feeling and thinking of the then PM Vajpayee,
Kalam did visit Gujarat that had witnessed most barbaric of the communal riots
in the country.

Given the context, Dr Thakur tried to bring home the point that Vajpayee, who
had asked Gujarat CM Narendra Modi to observe 'rajdharma', was not only
'concerned' about the situation facing the victims of the riots, but also took
immediate concrete steps. "Within three days of the riots, I was asked to rush
to Gujarat to take care of the riot victims, since measles had broken out among
the victims living in relief camps. The then PM also gave me Rs1 crore from
Prime Minister's Relief Fund (PMRF) to meet the health care costs," Dr Thakur
said.

He said there were 46 relief camps - 42 for Muslims and four for Hindus. "We
took care of their health through doctors and rehabilitation work through Red
Cross Society. Overall, Rs 3 crore was spent on the twin tasks. The victims
returned to their houses happily," Dr Thakur said.

When asked if Kalam had actually straightened the facts when high-voltage
rhetoric was built around Congress president Sonia Gandhi's nationality, coupled
with the suggestions that Kalam, in fact, was unwilling to allow her to become
the country's PM under pressure of e-mails and messages, Dr Thakur said,
"Personally, I had gone on record saying that foreign nationality issue did not
hold water and was not a hindrance once she had become an MP. Yet, he (Kalam)
should not have revealed the insider's facts."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              784 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Have another riot', protesters urged

BYLINE: MEGAN LEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 394 words


PROTESTERS are gearing up for further riots outside Bob Jane T-Mart stores this
weekend after the cancellation of the Easternats drag racing meet, a court has
heard.

Facebook pages have been set up and messages posted on car websites encouraging
protesters to "have another riot" similar to the upheaval in Oakleigh last
month, the Melbourne Magistrates Court was told.

Police yesterday opposed bail for two teenagers â[#x20ac]" Aziz Elbayeh and Omar
Amr â[#x20ac]" who are accused of joining the Oakleigh riot on March 19, in
which about 100 police officers faced off against 2000 protesters.

The two men, both 19, from Springvale and Springvale South, have been charged
with inciting a riot, rioting, affray, burglary, theft and criminal damage over
the Oakleigh riot, which left a Bob Jane T-Mart store with a $50,000 damage
bill.

The bail hearing was told a crowd had gathered outside the store, on the corner
of Warrigal Road and Princes Highway, to protest against the cancellation of the
Easternats event, which was to be held at Calder Park this weekend.

Bob Jane was involved in trying to set up the Easternats event, but Bob Jane
T-Marts, a separate company in which Bob Jane remains a director, was never
involved in the event.

Constable Greer Goldsmith told the court that the protest was originally
peaceful but the atmosphere degenerated about 11.30pm.

She said Amr threw a lit flare that landed close to a police officer, after
which Amr and Elbayeh had walked through the crowd yelling "Let's start a riot!
Let's start a riot!".

Elbayeh, who is a semi-professional soccer player for the Southern Stars
Football Club, is accused of then smashing a store window with a chair while
both men allegedly stole tyres and tyre rims worth an estimated $5000.

Constable Goldsmith said that for five to six days before the riot messages had
appeared on Facebook and car websites publicising the protest.

She said there was no evidence to suggest Elbayeh and Amr were involved in
publicising the protest on Facebook, overturning a ute in front of the Bob Jane
store or injuring Fairfax photographer Wayne Hawkins, who was set upon by a mob
when he began taking photographs on the night.

The court heard both men, who were university students, were respectful to their
families.

Magistrate Fiona Stewart said the matters were "incredibly serious" and
adjourned the bail hearing to today.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              785 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                             July 9, 2009, Thursday

Uighur resentment boils over

LENGTH: 357 words


Ethnic riots that erupted in the capital of China's Xinjiang region reveal the
extent of resentment that the mostly Muslim Uighur people harbor against the
Chinese government's policy toward them. The riots, believed to be the biggest
ethnic unrest acknowledged by Chinese authorities since the establishment of
communist rule in 1949, could deal a big blow to the leadership of President Hu
Jintao. The situation in the western region indicates that it is becoming more
and more difficult for the Chinese government to continue the repression of an
ethnic minority in the name of "stability and unity."

According to the police authorities of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region,
156 people - 129 men and 27 women - were killed and more than 1,000 people
injured in the Urumqi riots. The number of people detained reached 1,434. The
death toll is expected to rise. The numbers of dead and injured have not been
broken down into Uighur and Han Chinese people.

The riots were triggered by a Han Chinese attack on Uighur workers at a toy
factory in Guangdong Province. Many Uighur workers were killed or injured.
Sunday's riots invited a stronger reaction from Han Chinese. Tens of thousands
of Han Chinese took to the streets in Urumqi in protest on Tuesday. Reports said
some of them attacked Uighur-owned businesses. A tense situation in the region
is likely to remain.

In March 2008, China saw large-scale riots by Tibetans followed, in the next few
months, by activities by Uighur separatists. Xinjiang authorities insist that
Sunday's riots were organized by a Munich-based Uighur independence group and by
Ms. Rebiya Kadeer, an exiled Uighur rights activist living in the United States.

It is clear that behind Sunday's riots are long-held enmities against the influx
of Han Chinese and the Chinese government's attempts to assimilate Uighur people
into Chinese culture and suppress their rights to freedom of religion and
expression. A crackdown on Uighur activities will further heighten ethnic
tension. Chinese authorities should realize that the latest riots and last
year's riots by Tibetans derive from the same roots.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2009 The Japan Times Ltd.


                              786 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

Russian riot police holds exercise

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by Russian Zvezda TV on 10 May

[Presenter] An open day in one of the Russian Interior Ministry's closest units,
a special-purpose police detachment. Riot police units were set up some 20 years
ago but they are still structures which speak little about themselves. Our
correspondent Aleksey Koshkin has spent a day with a special-purpose police
unit.

[Correspondent] Running upside down on the wall of a building from the fourth to
the first floor is as easy for an ordinary riot police officer as doing morning
exercises. Any special-purpose police officer must master at least the basic
skills of an mountaineer, sniper, bomb disposal expert and, of course, master
all known martial arts.

Some 20,000 people serve in Russia's special-purpose police units. There are 121
riot police units in the country. These units are regarded as the elite with
good reason. Firstly, the best officers serve there. Secondly, they are the most
mobile and best-equipped units.

Today, special equipment and weapons are like another pair of hands for riot
police officers. Therefore, they keep close watch on the appearance of all new
equipment, Russian-made, first of all. However, foreign weapons can also become
another pair of hands for our riot police in emergencies.

Today the riot police's capabilities are virtually limitless. For instance, this
helicopter can film a rebellious crowd at high altitude and send signals across
any distance. Vehicles equipped with water cannons and an integral part of riot
police units - Tigers - not tanks, but armoured vehicles [are also used in the
units]. People have already nicknamed them wheeled tigers, though. There is no
need to worry about public order with such hardware and excellently trained
personnel.

[Mikhail Sukhodolskiy, captioned as deputy interior minister] The results of the
riot police's work in all areas remain positive every year. Last year the
special-purpose police prevented over 12,500 crimes, arrested almost 14,000
criminals and released 181 hostages.

[Correspondent] It is difficult to imagine today's riot police without a sniffer
dog service. Dogs serve just like anyone else. They also receive extra training
with cats. Hence, not only people are important. It is thanks to the skills of
these irreplaceable fighters that a large number of crimes are being prevented,
including the clearance of remaining mine fields in Chechnya. Russian
special-purpose police units are still maintaining order there.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1830 gmt 10 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              790 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Claims riot was planned

BYLINE: Emma Channon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 259  words


THE police officer who called the shots to detain suspects in the 2004 Palm
Island riot has defended his decision to arrest David Bulsey.

Detective Senior Sergeant David Miles said video footage and police records in
the week leading up to the riot indicated Mr Bulsey played a role in inciting
the event.

``I had reasonable suspicion with respect to the arrest of Mr Bulsey,'' he said.

``I believe he was part of the group who planned to make (the riot) happen. In
my opinion there was planning before the riot; it was not spontaneous.''

Det Sen-Sgt Miles's evidence comes on day six of the civil trial, in which Mr
Bulsey and then-partner Yvette Lenoy are suing the State Government for unlawful
treatment after the riot, and malicious prosecution.

The evidence wrapped up in the Supreme Court in Townsville yesterday, and the
trial was adjourned for the Easter period.

Dr Michael Murray gave evidence via telephone, confirming former Detective
Darren Robinson the police officer who helped identify riot suspects before they
were arrested could not appear because of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.

Det Sen-Sgt Miles's decision was questioned by plaintiff lawyer Robert Wensley
QC, who suggested evidence was weak about his client's involvement.

``Information contained in (police records) spoke about molotov cocktails being
prepared to bomb the police station,'' Det Sen-Sgt Miles said. ``It was (also)
my interpretation of the video evidence of him addressing the crowd at the mall,
and running sheets (police records).''

emma.channon@townsvillebulletin.com.au

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              791 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          PNG Post-Courier (Australia)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Malabag: Race riots could hurt LNG

BYLINE: By CALDRON LAEPA

SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 288 words


A possible riot against the Asians would jeopardise the two main LNG projects in
the country.

PNG Trade Union President Michael Malabag said this when stating the position of
the unions in regards to the Asian riot.

An anonymous sender of an email has been circulating to most NGOs and civil
society urging them to carry out a protest against Asian businesses in the
country.

Mr Malabag warned the public not to take part in the riot.

He said that China and Japan were the biggest markets and who would be importing
products from our LNG projects.

Mr Malabag said we cannot assume that Asians owned all the shops in country
because there are some national who leased out their premises.

He said at this stage of development the Asian markets would play a major in the
export of LNG in the country and that the muting riot would reflect a very bad
picture of the country.

Mr Malabag said the union being a responsible entity would not join the riot.

He said the Asian businessman also provided employment for locals and the muting
riot would do nothing better than leave behind scares of a ruined infrastructure
which would hard to replace. Mr Malabag said he called for an immediate
investigation into the issue.

He said there is a parliamentary committee already established to look into the
matter and the public should await the recommendations made by the committee.

Lets wait for the results from the committee then the public can view it and be
judges of whatever recommendations or outcome has been made from the committee
Mr Malabag said.

Mr Malabag called on the responsible authorities to clump out any illegal
immigrants or employers in the country.

He also called on responsible authorities to start implementing the cottage act.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PTC


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              792 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

Kandhamal tense again as posters threaten BJP MLA

BYLINE: Debabrata Mohanty

LENGTH: 209  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Still recovering from last year's communal riots, Kandhamal witnessed fresh
tension on Thursday after hand-written posters containing threats to a local BJP
legislator - accused of leading murderous mobs during the riots - appeared in
Raikia area of the district.

Kandhamal Superintendent of Police Praveen Kumar said at least two posters
warning G Udayagiri's BJP MLA Manoj Pradhan and Bajrang Dal activists of dire
consequences for "their role in the riots" were found pasted in Raikia.

This is the place which bore the brunt of the anti-Christian riots that followed
the killing of VHP leader Swami Laxmanananda. At least 38 people were killed in
the riots and hundreds were rendered homeless in the violence.

Police officials said the threat posters could have been the handiwork of
Maoists as the area has a strong rebel presence. But they said they were also
examining other possibilities.

Pradhan, who won by a margin of more than 24,000 votes in the Assembly elections
this year, has been behind bars since last year. The 35-year-old RSS worker has
13 riot cases lodged against him including seven cases of murder in last year's
riots.

"We have tightened security at the sub-jail in G. Udayagiri, where Pradhan is
lodged," said Kandhamal SP Praveen Kumar.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              793 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

RIOT REVENGE GANG LET FREE - EXCLUSIVE: Charges dropped against six men

BYLINE: GEMMA JONES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 421  words


CHARGES against six Middle Eastern revenge attackers from the day after the
Cronulla riots have been dropped on legal advice.

In a major setback for the investigation into the riot aftermath, police have
been told there is insufficient evidence to secure a conviction for the charge
of riot and affray against the men.

Investigating officers had been relying on a test case from the Milperra
Massacre, where bikies present at the time of the 1984 shooting spree were
charged with affray.

Police claimed they had evidence the men were part of a violent mob at
Brighton-le-Sands, but have been told they must prove ''individual acts'' of
riot to get a conviction.

Last week police lawyers informed the strike force set up to track down and
arrest the rioters and reprisal attackers that they

Continued Page 4

From Page 1

lacked proof of ''individual acts.''

In a further blow, one of the only cameramen recording the violent mob attacks
in Brighton-Le-Sands hours after the earlier riots at Cronulla was bashed,
leaving police with little record of the attackers' actions.

The development means there are now 84 people facing charges over the riots and
revenge attacks, down from 90.

Almost 40 per cent are of Middle Eastern descent and have been charged over
reprisal attacks.

It could also mean others in the sights of police for being part of the violent
mob of revenge attackers at Brighton-Le-Sands could now escape charges.

The group of six whose charges have been dropped include three 18-year-olds from
Fairfield, Picnic Point and Punchbowl, a 20-year-old from Auburn, a 21-year-old
from Punchbowl and a 22-year-old from Heckenberg.

They are all currently on bail and are yet to learn the charges against them
have been dropped.

Head of Strike Force Enoggera Detective Superintendent Ken McKay yesterday said
the legal advice meant police had to prove ''individual acts''.

''We have to be able to prove what each person did,'' he said.

He said officers had been able to rely on video footage as evidence against
rioters at Cronulla but there was no similar account of the Brighton reprisal
attacks.

The six, whose charges have been dropped were arrested by Strike Force Enoggera
police on February 23.

Until they received the new legal advice last week, police believed the
circumstantial evidence they had gathered would be enough because affray charges
after similar mob violence had been successful before.

After the 1984 Milperra bikie massacre police successfully charged people who
were present at the time of the shooting with affray.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              794 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                           January 27, 2000, Thursday

Tulsa Race Riot Commission To Meet on Reparations

SECTION: Pg. 1Csum

LENGTH: 154 words


An Oklahoma state commission will consider next week whether reparations are
owed for losses in Tulsa's 1921 race riot, which historians believe was one of
the nation's deadliest racial clashes. The Tulsa Race Riot Commission will meet
Feb. 4, and chairman Bob Blackburn said yesterday he expects it will vote on
reparations. The 11-member panel, which has spent two years investigating the
riot, must make a recommendation about reparations to state lawmakers by Feb. 7.
A subcommittee of the commission has proposed a $ 33 million reparation package
that would include scholarships, a museum and tax breaks to encourage business
development -- in addition to direct payments to more than 70 survivors. The
violence that broke out May 31, 1921, led to the destruction of Tulsa's black
business district. Some historians estimate as many as 300 people died, but that
figure remains in dispute.  -- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 The Daily Record Co.


                              795 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                              May 30, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Riot, Valkyries both winners in season finale; Riot win game against rivals but
Valkyries finish season in first place

BYLINE: Rob Vanstone, The Leader-Post

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 393 words


Both teams had something to celebrate after the Regina Riot and Saskatoon
Valkyries wrapped up their regular-season schedules Saturday.

The Riot enjoyed a victory - a 27-26 conquest of its provincial rival - and the
Valkyries derived satisfaction from securing first place in the Western Women's
Canadian Football League's Prairie Division.

"We're still in first, and that's all we really wanted,' Valkyries running back
Sam Matheson said after rushing for 137 yards and three first-half touchdowns.

The Riot and Valkyries finished with 3-1 records, with Saskatoon getting the nod
for first place on the basis of the points differential in their two
regular-season meetings.

After the Valkyries won 47-21 in Saskatoon on May 22, the Riot needed to win by
at least 27 on Saturday to claim top spot.

There was some disappointment about the lack of a lopsided victory but, as the
Riot's Morgan Turner put it, "a win's a win."

The Riot got the victory on the strength of a 21-yard field goal by Turner with
2:10 remaining in the fourth quarter. She split the uprights to give Regina,
which trailed 19-0 late in the second quarter, its first and only lead of the
game.

Regina had a chance to go ahead by more, but a three-yard touchdown run by
Celeste Schnell was called back due a holding penalty on Turner, who also plays
running back. Shortly thereafter, Turner delivered what proved to be the
game-winning kick.

It was a familiar scenario for Turner, whose clutch 13-yard field goal enabled
the Riot to defeat the visiting Valkyries 31-29 in the 2015 Prairie Conference
final. Regina went on to capture the WWCFL title, which Saskatoon had won the
previous four years.

The Riot and Valkyries will both play host to conference semifinals on June 12,
with the opponents to be determined.

On Saturday, Saskatoon quarterback Stacey Boldt threw for 150 yards, including a
52-yard TD pass to Kelsey Dick. The Valkyries were missing several players -
including quarterbacks Alex Eyolfson and Reed Thorstad - due to their
participation in a national flag football event.

The Riot relied on the run, with Carmen Agar rushing for 206 yards and Schnell
adding 70. Agar and Schnell had short touchdown runs. The Riot also scored on a
pass from Aimee Kowalski to Claire Dore.

rvanstone@postmedia.com twitter.com/robvanstone !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Bell; Regina Riot defensive back Inaya Haque, left, blocks
Saskatoon Valkyries running back Tori Giles at Mosaic Stadium on Saturday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              796 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Cong backs Rahul's remarks contrasting 1984, 2002 riots

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 28 -- Congress today fully backed Rahul Gandhi on his remarks on
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and on issues of transparency and corruption while the
opposition attacked him on his views in an interview to a TV channel.

Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said while the post- Godhra court cases had
to be transferred from Gujarat for justice, a large number of convictions did
take place in the anti-Sikh riots cases.

"Criminal law does not make a distinction between common people and the leaders
of political parties. 482 convictions took place in the 1984 riots. The
political career of a number of very senior Congress leaders was affected
(because of the riots). Apart from apology, there has been a reconciliation for
the last 20-30 years," he said.

Contrasting that with the 2002 Gujarat riots, Singhvi said that for the first
time in the country, court cases relating to the riots were transferred to
Maharashtra, which is the "clearest vote of no confidence" in the Modi
government.

"This was done to ensure an impartial, objective, fair, dependable outcome
which, it was felt, could not be had in the Modi-led Gujarat," he added.

In an interview to a television channel, Gandhi had yesterday said that while
the Gujarat government was "involved" in the 2002 riots, the Congress government
had tried to stop the anti-Sikh riots.

BJP and Akali Dal have slammed Gandhi for his remarks contrasting the Gujarat
riots with the anti-Sikh riots. While SAD leader Naresh Gujaral alleged that
Congress had shielded individuals who were involved in the "carnage" against
Sikhs, senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley has said Gandhi was "ill informed" on the
Gujarat riots.

Singhvi said, "He (Gandhi) is quite unlike a number of persons in our political
system, who aspire for big office but are habituated to speaking with a forked
tongue, who are self- centred and have illusions of infallibility."

Lauding Gandhi's "honesty of purpose, sincerity, passion and commitment to
changing the system", Singhvi said that in the interview the Congress vice
president had come out as a man steadfast in his ideas, ideals and principles.

"Gandhi has not only spoken and interacted. He willingly subjected himself to a
no-holds barred 80-minute in-depth cross examination and he has done it with
humility," Singhvi said, pointing at Gandhi's emphasis on transparency as the
standpoint of the interview.

To repeated questions about some party MPs who were named in the cases, Singhvi
said, "Political action has also taken place", although he did not name anybody.
Congress had refused Lok Sabha tickets to Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar in
2009 general elections following allegations of them having played a role in the
1984 riots.

Responding to questions about the action taken against Congress leaders who were
"involved" in the anti-Sikh riots, Singhvi said that while many had already been
penalised, the process was still on to fix responsibility.

He said that in the 2002 Gujarat riots, a minister in the Modi government, Maya
Kodnani, was convicted.

Singhvi also mentioned that former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee had
reminded Modi of his 'Rajadharma' as a Chief Minister.

Noting that that Gandhi has walked the talk on bringing openness in the system
by holding elections in Youth Congress and NSUI, Singhvi said that the BJP does
not have a comparable process. Hailing the Congress Vice President for his
"firmness, resoluteness and readiness to work".

Senior party leader Digvijay Singh, meanwhile, said that Gandhi had "stood his
ground and put his point across, unlike Modi, who had walked out" of another
television interview.

Union Minister Milind Deora also praised Gandhi for the interview.

"Refusing to get into personality slugfests, taking on core issues and focusing
on solutions earnestly, Rahul's interview was very refreshing," Deora said on
'twitter.com'.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              797 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           Croydon Advertiser Series

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday

Seven in ten fear new riots says poll

SECTION: AGENCY:CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 230  words


PEOPLE are struggling to find reasons for optimism three years on from the riots
, an Advertiser survey has found.

A poll of 300 people, carried out to mark today's third anniversary of the 2011
disorder, reveals seven in ten think there will be a repeat of the riots within
the next decade.

One in four said they 'strongly disagreed' with the statement 'I am proud to
live/work' in Croydon, while other responses betrayed a distrust with the Met
Police and unhappiness at the lack of help given to riot victims.

Steve Reed, MP for Croydon North, accused the Government of broken promises.

Mr Reed claimed Prime Minister David Cameron and London mayor Boris Johnson had
committed to helping Croydon get over the effects of the riots to ensure there
would be no repeat.

He added: "There are still, three years on, a lot of people who feel let down
because these promises made to them have not been met in full."

Meanwhile, hopes of riot-hit areas like New Addington and London Road, West
Croydon, getting their own police stations have been dismissed by Croydon's new
borough commander.

The inquiry into the causes of the riots had recommended full-time stations in
these areas.

But, when the issue was raised again this week, Chief Superintendent Andy
Tarrant said he was more concerned with investing in new officers on the ground
than buildings.

Four-page riot anniversary special  pages 16-19

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              798 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Don't judge young people on the riots, says owner of torched shop;
Hope rises from the ashes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 264 words


The riots last summer should not cloud the country's judgment of its young
people, according to the owner of a furniture store that was burnt to the
ground.

One of the most evocative images of the unrest a year ago was the blaze at the
House of Reeves store in Croydon, south London, which had stood on the site for
more than 140 years.

Now an adjacent store, which is part of the same business and was damaged but
not destroyed by fire, has been covered in more than 4,000 pictures of young
people holding positive written messages.

The display, designed to challenge negative perceptions of young people, was
organised by the youth volunteering charity vInspired as part of its Reverse
Riots campaign.

Trevor Reeves, the co-owner of the store, said: ''The positive legacy of the
riots was the coming together of people of all ages and from all walks of life
to help mend the capital.

"We are blessed with so many bright, inspirational and positive young people in
this country and I believe it's important that we don't allow the actions of
such a few to cloud our judgment of the many.''

Commenting on the display, David Cameron said: ''The riots last summer were a
wake-up call for the country and I am determined that we will do everything we
can to tackle the causes of the riots to ensure we never see scenes like that
again."

Eric Pickles, the Communities Secretary, told BBC Radio 4's The World at One
yesterday that the riots were driven by greed.

"It was Gucci-rioting, people wanting to get wide-screen televisions, phones,
the latest trainers, fancy furniture and the like," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trevor Reeves, co-owner of a furniture store destroyed in last year's
riots, below, at his neighbouring shop which is covered in images of young
people holding positive messages
STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA/SANG TAN/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              801 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Encroachment cases lodged against 100 families of Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: India


India, Jan. 1 -- Cases have been registered against one hundred riot-hit
families who have been living in a village in neighbouring Shamli district, for
allegedly encroaching upon a government land, officials said on Wednesday.

Tehsildar Thakur Prasad lodged complaints against the families who have been
living at Mansoora village under Jhinjhana police station after the September
riots, Sub-Divisional Magistrate S K Singh said.

Prasad in his complaint has alleged that the families have been camping on the
land since the riots and have now even built brick cottages, Singh said.

Meanwhile in another case, the forest department has sent notice to 270 families
asking them to vacate land in Roten village in the district.

These families have also allegedly encroached upon the forest land by camping
there after the riots.

Over 60 people were killed and thousands left homeless during the riots in
Muzaffarnagar and adjoining areas in September.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              802 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

'02 riots: 'Let court, not SIT, decide Guj govt role'

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 224  words


It is for the court to decide whether 2002 post-Godhra riots were a result of
the government's criminal lapse as part of a larger conspiracy, said Zakia
Jafri's lawyer Mihir Desai on Thursday.

"Whether the Gujarat government intentionally failed to take preventive steps or
not or made any administrative lapse during the riots amounts to criminal lapse
or not is something which should be decided by the court and not by the SIT
(Special Investigation Team)," said Desai.

He made his argument before metropolitan magistrate B J Ganatra on behalf of
Jafri, who had filed a petition protesting the closure report of the
SC-appointed SIT, which had given a clean chit to chief minister Narendra Modi
and others in connection with the riots.

Desai also argued that the SIT had failed to investigate the Gujarat
government's lapses in implementing the state government's Police Manual and
Communal Riots Scheme of 1997 to deploy the army during the riots. He also
demanded that Modi and others should be charge sheeted and the investigation
handed over to another independent agency.

The lawyer further stated that when an agency, such as SIT, had been assigned
the investigation of the large-scale violence, it has to probe whether the
government could have anticipated such a situation, and if it did, what steps it
had taken to prevent it, he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              803 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Trial on riots in Zhanaozen should be as objective as possible

BYLINE: D. Mukhtarov, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


April 05--The trial of the rioters in Zhanaozen should be as objective as
possible, Sovereign Wealth Fund of Kazakhstan Samruk-Kazyna head Umirzak
Shukeyev believes.

"I would like to see the trial of the rioters in Zhanaozen as objective as
possible. Those responsible for the problem, should be identified and punished
according to their deeds," Shukeyev said at a press conference on Thursday.

Mass riots hit the Kazakh oil city of Zhanaozen in Mangystau region on Dec.16.
According to the Kazakh General Attorney Office, 14 people were killed as a
result and over 80 injured. Buildings and cars were burned and the property of
individuals and institutions destroyed. The riots were preceded by many months
striking launched by oil companies' employees over dissatisfaction with their
wages. On March 27 the trial on 37 persons accused of mass riots began in Aktau.

Shukeyev said KazMunaiGas also has its share of responsibility, and management
system of this enterprise was radically changed.

"Before the decision-making center was in Astana and managers ran process
through a screen monitor which is not correct. Now ... the whole decision-making
center was moved to Uzen. Current president of KazMunaiGas Alik Aidarbayev
spends 90 percent of his time there,"

Shukeyev said.

He believes the head must constantly be in contact with employees.

"I still accept delegations of workers from Zhanaozen and get a lot of valuable
information. They say what is going wrong, and we try to make decisions," said
Shukeyev.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120405-1AZ-Trial-on-riots
-in-Zhanaozen-should-be-as-objective-as-possible-0405-20120405

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              804 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Study finds Twitter did not cause riots

BYLINE: Victoria Weldon

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 312 words


COMPUTER experts from  St Andrews University have revealed that social
networking sites did not help to incite the English riots.

A study of 2.4 million Twitter messages from the time of the riots in London and
other cities in August found that politicians and other commentators were wrong
to claim that the site was partly responsible for the disturbances.

In contrast, the university research team found Twitter was a force for good and
helped to organise the clean-up.

The study, led by Professor Rob Procter of the University of Manchester, used St
Andrews  world-leading cloud computing technology.

Mr Procter said:  Politicians and commentators were quick to claim that social
media played an important role in inciting and organising riots, calling for
sites such as Twitter to be closed should events of this nature happen again.

But our study found no evidence of significance in the available data that would
justify such a course of action in respect to Twitter.

The research, funded by the Joint Information Systems Committee, was only
possible using St Andrews  large scale computing facilities.

Dr Alex Voss, from the university s School of Computer Science, said:  The cloud
computing environment at  St Andrews meant that we could quickly set up a
multi-computer environment that could analyse a large volume of information
quickly and accurately.

The study found news rumours appear quickly on Twitter but often turn out to be
false. An example was a rumour  animals had been released from London Zoo, which
was untrue.

Mr Procter added:  Only after a period of time does the influence of mainstream
media organisations become critical for determining a rumour s credibility. But
we do find the mainstream media is perfectly capable of picking up and
publishing unverified information from social media without adhering to the
usual standard of fact checking.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLE: Arson and looting occurred in the August riots.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              805 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Two more charged in Stanley Cup riot probe

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; CRIME; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Police say charges have been approved against two more people suspected of
participating in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot last June.

Last week, police announced the first batch of charges laid against 25 people
suspected of offences ranging from taking part in a riot to arson, theft and
assault.

Inspector Les Yeo said on Wednesday that the latest charges, which include
participating in a riot and mischief, are against 19- and 20-year-old men, one
from Surrey and one from Coquitlam.

Insp. Yeo noted that of the 27 people charged, 23 either turned themselves in or
were arrested, with the latest arrest happening on Wednesday morning.

He said the Vancouver Police Department's integrated riot investigation team has
received additional resources from a squad dedicated to tracking down
hard-to-find offenders.

Rioters burned cars, smashed windows and looted stores on June 15 as the
Vancouver Canucks lost the final game of the Stanley Cup playoffs to the Boston
Bruins.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              806 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Rioters from 44 countries among prison population

BYLINE: Mary Bowers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


One in seven of those jailed for their part in the summer's riots were foreign
nationals from 44 countries, it emerged last night.

Of 865 rioters in prison a month after the August disorder, 112 were born as far
away as Cuba, Samoa and Vietnam. The largest proportion of inmates, 15 in total,
were Jamaican. Ten were Somalian, ten from Serbia and Montenegro, nine from
Poland and six each from Portugal and Nigeria.

Prisoners included in the statistics were those who had been jailed for
burglary, robbery, theft, criminal damage and disorder. All were arrested
between August 6, when the riots began in Tottenham, North London, and August 9.
The figures represent a snapshot of the rioters within the prison population on
September 9, one month after the riots had spread beyond London to Manchester,
Birmingham and Wolverhampton.

Of those jailed for robbery a quarter were foreign nationals, while one in ten
convicted for violent disorder, including possession of a knife or drugs, were
also foreign-born.

Overall, the proportion of foreignborn prisoners could be much higher as a
further 41 had their nationality unrecorded.

Figures from the UK Border Agency revealed that 367 "suspected foreign
nationals" had been referred by police for deportation for their alleged part in
the riots.

Across the UK police have arrested more than 4,000 people in connection with the
riots, with almost three quarters of those in London.

The Ministry of Justice said that the figures should be treated with caution.
"The figures show that on September 9, 13 per cent of those who were imprisoned
for offences related to the August riots were foreign nationals," said a
spokesman. "However, it is important to bear in mind that this is only a
snapshot of the prison population on that date. It includes remand prisoners and
excludes bailed suspects who had not been tried or convicted by that date. It
would be misleading to suggest that it provides a complete picture of those
involved in the riots."

Damian Green, the Immigration Minister, said: "Foreign nationals who were
convicted of offences during the riots will be returned home wherever possible."

367 "suspected foreign nationals referred for deportation after the riots
Source: UK Border Agency

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              807 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

Timeline of Zakia Jafri's case against Narendra Modi

LENGTH: 390  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Sept. 13 -- The Supreme Court on Monday ruled that it will no longer
monitor the case against Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi for the communal
riots at Gulbarag Society one of the epi-centres of the riots that ravaged
Gujarat in 2002, killing 1200 people, most of them Muslims. The Supreme Court's
verdict asks a Gujarat court to decide whether Mr Modi's role in the riots needs
to be investigated.

Following is the list of dates in the Gulbarg Society riot case:

February 27, 2002: Godhra train carnage

February-May, 2002: Riots take place in different parts of Gujarat

February 28, 2002: Former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri is killed in Gulbarg Society
riot in Ahmedabad

June 8, 2006: Jafri's widow Zakia registers her complaint against Narendra Modi
and 61 others

November 2, 2007: Gujarat High Court rejects Ms Jafri's plea for registration of
FIR against Mr Modi

March 3, 2008: Supreme Court issues notice to the Centre and Gujarat government
on Ms Jafri's plea and an amicus curiae was appointed to assist the Court

March 26, 2008: Court appoints a four-member Special Investigating Team (SIT)
headed by former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director R K Raghavan to
conduct investigation in these cases

April 27, 2009: The Supreme Court directs the SIT to look into the complaint of
Ms Jafri.

May 12, 2010: The SIT files its first report before the Supreme Court saying
further investigation against certain police officials and a minister in the
state cabinet is required

November 17, 2010: The SIT files another report after further investigation

November 23, 2010: Senior Advocate Raju Ramachandran replaces Harish N Salve as
amicus curiae after he expresses unwillingness to continue

March 15, 2011: The Supreme Court directs the SIT to further probe the case on
the basis of note given by the amicus

April 24, 2011: The SIT submits its report

May 5, 2011: The Supreme Court asks the amicus to make an independent assessment
of the SIT probe

July 25, 2011: Amicus Curiae submits his final report

September 12, 2011: The Supreme Court refuses to pass order on Mr Modi and
directs concerned Magistrate of Ahmedabad to decide the case. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              808 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             January 2, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

A study of toleranceThe Great Australian Race Riot delves into the rich history
of the nation's riots, writes Emma Brown.

SECTION: TV GUIDE_; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words


FOR Peter FitzSimons The Great Australian Race Riot is a marriage of two of his
greatest loves: his passion for Australian history and his genuine appreciation
of multiculturalism and what it has given Australia.

So who better to present this three-part documentary series, an explosive
journey that uncovers the country's forgotten race riots that have helped shaped
the nation.

"This was a wonderful project that really played to my strengths as I love
bringing Australian history to life and I love multiculturalism and how as
Australians we just get on with it," the bestselling author, columnist, and
storyteller explains.

While the subject matter can at times seem a bit grim and depressing FitzSimons
in his inimitable fashion brings some humour and charm to the material as well
as exposing the upside to some of the tumultuous historical events.

While the action starts from the golden sands of Cronulla beach, site of
Australia's most infamous and freshest race wound, he is quick to point out this
riot is just one in a long line.

"Cronulla beach was not an aberration in Australian history. It did make
Australians reel back in shock and horror and look at what had happened and say
this is not what we're into, this is not who we are," FitzSimons says.

The Cronulla beach riots of 2005 targeted men of 'Middle Eastern appearance' and
in the following days resulted in Lebanese-Australian youth rising up,
responding quickly in a series of retaliations.

But FitzSimons believes there is a definite upside to this ugly incident and
many of the race riots in our history.

"The lesson we learn as a nation after an event like Cronulla beach is that that
way lies madness. We don't want that for our country and we can't, and don't
want to raise our children in that world."

Australia, he says is much like the beach culture we're so fond of.

"The beach is my favourite place in Australia where people of all races and
colours lay side-by-side, a great big melting pot and that is what we want
Australia to be like."

While he readily admits Australians have had their friction points over the
years we, as a nation, have always come back together.

He suggests the recent siege in Martin Place Sydney is a case in point as there
was a fear that the Muslim community may be turned on after the tragic outcome.

"But rather than that there has been a rise in empathy. I went to Martin Place
just after the siege and Muslims were there in force and were being embraced by
the community."

On the journey FitzSimons exposes heroes and villains over a 170 year window in
history and demonstrates how mobs of every ethnicity have transformed our
nation.

Race riots became a feature of the Australian landscape as far back as 1840's
Melbourne with the sectarian violence between Catholics and Protestants.

FitzSimons says at the time The Age newspaper strongly advocated that this type
of hostility was not welcome in the new world.

Other battles and riots he looks at include those between Japanese, Timorese and
white settlers in Broome and the race riots of the late 1800's. The Snowy River
Hydro-Electric Scheme saw many conflicts in the 1950's which come under review
here. These clashes involved European workers including British, German, Greek,
Irish, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, and Yugoslavian immigrants.

The more recent 2004 Redfern riots are also investigated. The riots were sparked
by the death of young indigenous man, Thomas Hickey, and lead to a full blown
overnight riot between Aboriginal youth and the police.

A cast of expert researchers expands on the stories, while a medical historian
explores the weaponry of the fights, and a riot psychologist explains the
science of mob mentalities.

The three episodes tell a story that is shocking, heartfelt, and at times
humorous but ultimately FitzSimons shows how race riots consistently reveal a
window into who we are as a county and where we want to go.

"There is the ugliness of the mob mentality, madness takes over, but this always
dies down," he says.

After each altercation FitzSimons reveals how Australia is left changed in the
riot aftermath - sometimes for worse, but surprisingly often, with a new, more
tolerant identity.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter FitzSimons hosts new series The Great Australian Race Riot The
Great Australian Race Riot, screens Sunday January 4, at 8.30pm on SBS.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              809 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                              April 1, 2016 Friday

After Anupam Kher, Kirron Kher hits out at Kanhaiya Kumar, calls his 'riot'
remarks disgraceful

LENGTH: 252  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 1 -- Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Kirron Kher on Wednesday
termed the statement by Kanhaiya Kumar as disgraceful in which he said that
there was a stark difference between the 1984 Sikh riot and 2002 Gujarat riots.


 Hitting back at the Jawaharlal Nehru University Student Union (JNUSU)
president, Kher tweeted, ""Disgraceful statement by @kanhaiyajnusu that 1984
anti Sikh riots were done by mobs and not state sponsored".
 "So many Cong leaders are in the dock for the 1984 riots. Statement by
@kanhaiyajnusu wilfully ignorant," Kher added further.
 Kirron Kher, a 60-year-old threatre and film actress and a member of the
Saffron party did not stop here and attacked him further by tweeting, "Kya aapka
zameer bilkul mar gaya hai, Kanhaiya? @kanhaiyajnusu". (Is your inner self
dead?)
 According to Kanhaiya Kumar, there is a fundamental difference between 1984
anti-Sikh riots and Gujarat 2002 riots. He alleged that while the Gujarat
violence was carried out through state machinery, the 1984 massacre was actually
due to mob frenzy.
 Recently, Anupam Kher, actor and Kirron Kher's husband lashed out at Kanhaiya
during the screening of his film at Jawaralal Nehru University. Without naming
the JNUSU president in his speech, Kher, who has been critical of the JNU issue,
questioned how one who "speaks ill" of the country can be celebrated like he was
an Olympic medal winner.
 "He is out on bail, he hasn't come back with a medal from Olympics that he
should be accorded such huge welcome".

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              810 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

O'Casey was a riot

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1109 words


QUESTION What play last caused a Dublin theatre audience to riot? THEATRE
audiences in Dublin are generally well-behaved these days, in contrast to the
old days. The last major riot at a Dublin theatrical performance was when Sean
O' Casey's Plough And The Stars was performed at the Abbey in 1926.

The play was given its first performance at the Abbey in February 1926, and, on
the fourth night, riots erupted.

The sight of an actress playing a prostitute enraged the audience and so, too,
did the sight of a Tricolour in a pub setting.

O'Casey's use of words by Pádraig Pearse also irritated the audience, who
thought that the play was dismissive of the ideals of the Easter Rising leaders.

WB Yeats got up on stage and roundly condemned the audience for its riotous
behaviour.

He told them that they had disgraced themselves again, a reference to the riots
at the 1907 performance of Playboy Of The Western World, also at the Abbey.

Yeats also asked the audience whether this was going to be a recurring
celebration of Irish genius. When JM Synge's Playboy Of The Western World was
performed for the first time in 1907, riots took place inside the Abbey Theatre
and spread to the city centre outside, where they were eventually quelled by the
Dublin Metropolitan Police.

These riots had been fomented by nationalists and the then leader of Sinn Féin,
Arthur Griffith, said that the play was a 'vile and inhuman story told in the
foulest language we have ever listened to on a public platform'.

Members of the audience took umbrage, egged on by the nationalists, and when a
reference was made to a 'drift of females standing in their shifts', the
audience went beserk.

However, the Dublin newspapers of the day went against the rioters and the
protests soon stopped.

When the Abbey was celebrating its centenary in 2004, it put on The Playboy Of
The Western World.

Tim Dolan, Dublin.

QUESTION Did Jonathan Routh of Candid Camera fame really take a grand piano on
to the London Underground?

INDEED he did, on the Northern Line from Belsize Park to Camden Town, in 1956.

Before the Candid Camera TV show, Jonathan Routh, as Candid Mike, was in a
series of radio programmes for Radio Luxembourg called The Candid Microphone.
Using a hidden microphone he would secretly record the reactions of ordinary
people to the strange situations into which he would put them.

I have an LP of Candid Mike on Nixa NPT 19016, featuring the track Piano In The
Underground with a cover picture of Routh, his helpers and his piano on an
Underground platform.

The sleeve notes read: 'Candid Mike never intended to go as far as the platform
of Camden Town station.

'All he was after was a good argument in the booking hall of another station as
to why he could not take the piano on the Tube.

'But nobody stopped him and his helpers taking it down and putting it on the
train.

'The fun and fuss didn't start until they'd unloaded it further down the line at
Camden Town station. Railways officials who stumbled across it there wouldn't
allow it to go back by train the same way it had come.

'So whether it still rests in magnificent silence on the platform or whether it
has since been consigned to a lost property office Candid Mike Doesn't know.'
Tony Kaye, London.

QUESTION John McCutcheon's The Red Corvette tells the tale of a woman who sells
her husband's car for $65 after he cheats on her. Was the song based on a true
story? THIS is based on an urban legend sometimes called The Philanderer's
Porsche.

The reason it has gained such attention is that it was published as the truth in
Ann Landers's famous column for the Chicago Tribune. Ann Landers was the doyenne
of the advice column in America.

To cut a long story short, a California man sees an ad in the newspaper for a
Porsche for $50. The man can't believe his luck, test drives the vehicle and
eventually has to ask why. The lady replies: 'My husband ran off with his
secretary a few days ago and left a note instructing me to sell the car and the
house, and send him the money.' At the bottom of her article Landers
(unconvincingly) stated that 'the incident did happen as reported and was a news
story somewhere'.

Country/folk singer John McCutcheon's 1989 song The Red Corvette is a retelling
of this tale. It begins: One morning while reading the paper In search of a new
set of wheels The classifieds had a most curious ad In their listing of
automobiles. I read in suspicious amusement What seemed like a wild stroke of
luck 'Corvette Stingray,' it said, 'low mileage, bright red, '83 model, 65
bucks.' etc.

Ali Baines, Wolverhampton.

QUESTION In 1935, Benito Mussolini appealed to the patriotism of Italy's wives,
urging them to swap their gold wedding bands for steel rings instead. Was this
drive successful? FURTHER to earlier answers, Mussolini was not the first to use
this ruse to fill the nation's coffers.

Prussia's defeat by Napoleon in 1806 had been a national humiliation but in
1813, following Napoleon's defeat in Russia, Prussian king Frederick William III
felt confident enough to seek liberation from France by signing an alliance with
Russia at Kalisz.

The country was filled with wild enthusiasm, with students and workers alike
thronging to the barracks. To gain money for the war, citizens were urged to
contribute their gold and silver jewellery towards the campaign.

In return, they were given iron jewellery such as brooches and finger rings,
often with the inscription Gold gab ich für Eisen (I gave gold for iron), or Für
das Wohl des Vaterlands (For the welfare of our country/ fatherland), or with a
portrait of the king on the back.

Prussian troops went on to play a key part in the victories against Napoleon
from 1813 to 1815.

Alison Williams, Staffordshire.

QUESTIONS

Q: What product, no longer available, would readers like for Christmas? I would
love some Rowntree's Dairy Box chocolates.

Mrs Christine Lewis, Rhiwbina, Cardiff.

Growing up we had advent candles, not calendars. Were these a US import?

Sue Green, Shropshire. :

What does disgraced former press baron Conrad Black do for a living since his
release from jail? Michael Wright, London.

Q: Do small birds such as finches and tits migrate for the winter months?

Sheila Noonan, Dublin 24.

IS THERE a question to which you have always wanted to know the answer? Or do
you know the answer to a question raised here? Send your questions and answers
to: Charles Legge, Answers To Correspondents, Irish Daily Mail, Embassy House,
Herbert Park Lane, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4. You can also fax them to 0044 1952
510906 or you can email them to charles.legge@dailymail.ie A selection will be
published but we are not able to enter into individual correspondence.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Controversy: Patrick Leech and Aonghus Óg McAnally in a production of
The Plough And The Stars

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2014 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              811 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Harrow Times

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Independent riots inquiry panel visits Harrow

BYLINE: Suruchi Sharma

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 389 words


THE chairman of the government-appointed panel investigating the summer riots
visited Harrow yesterday.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots, Communities and Victims Panel, met police
and council leaders at Harrow Council's Civic Centre.

The independent panel heard about the success of police tactics, which kept the
peace in Harrow during the riots.

Mr Singh said: "As part of the panel's work, we are interested in finding out
what could have been done differently to manage or prevent the riots and why
they happened in some areas and not others.

"That's why we have visited Harrow, to find out first hand what measures they
had in place and what steps they took to prevent the riots from affecting their
community, keeping the area free of trouble."

Mr Singh heard how 280 police officers were deployed across the borough to keep
the peace as trouble flared elsewhere in the capital.

Officers used dispersal zones powers in Harrow town centre and Wealdstone to
move on potential trouble-makers with a warning that they would be arrested if
they returned within 24 hours.

More than 100 people were dispersed while anyone under 16 was taken home by
police officers.

Council youth workers patrolled with police to speak to young people and these
patrols continued throughout the summer.

He added: "The riots were shocking in their violence, destruction and how
quickly they spread from London to our other cities.

"Anything we can find out about possible reasons why they didn't happen in some
areas will feed into our interim and final report to party leaders, with the
purpose of helping to prevent further disorder on this terrible scale."

Harrow Borough Commander, Chief Superintendant Dal Babu, said: "Having a
dispersal order in place allowed us to exercise powers that defused any
potential volatile situations by dispersing groups of youths who were
undoubtedly out to cause trouble.

"Youth workers, patrolling alongside police officers was an excellent calming
tactic.

"I felt humbled by the actions of all my members of staff and the many members
of the community who wanted to pull together in what was an unprecedented
situation."

Council leader, Councillor Bill Stephenson, said: "Huge credit is due to council
staff, youth workers, Harrow Police and of course the many residents who came
out in support of our efforts during that time."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              812 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                          City Edition 11:30pm Edition

RIOT REVENGE GANG LET FREE - EXCLUSIVE: Charges dropped against six men

BYLINE: GEMMA JONES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 420  words


CHARGES against six Middle Eastern revenge attackers from the day after the
Cronulla riots have been dropped on legal advice.

In a major setback for the investigation into the riot aftermath, police have
been told there is insufficient evidence to secure a conviction for the charge
of riot and affray against the men.

Investigating officers had been relying on a test case from the Milperra
Massacre, in which bikies present at the time of the 1984 shooting spree were
charged with affray.

Police claimed they had evidence the men were part of a violent mob at
Brighton-le-Sands, but have been told they must prove ''individual acts'' of
riot to get a conviction.

Last week police lawyers informed the strike force set up to track down and
arrest the rioters and reprisal attackers that they

Continued Page 2

From Page 1

lacked proof of ''individual acts.''

In a further blow, one of the only cameramen recording the violent mob attacks
in Brighton-Le-Sands hours after the earlier riots at Cronulla was bashed,
leaving police with little record of the attackers' actions.

The development means there are now 84 people facing charges over the riots and
revenge attacks, down from 90. Almost 40 per cent are of Middle Eastern descent
and have been charged over reprisal attacks.

It could also mean others in the sights of police for being part of the violent
mob of revenge attackers at Brighton-Le-Sands could now escape charges.

The group whose charges have been dropped include three 18-year-olds from
Fairfield, Picnic Point and Punchbowl, a 20-year-old from Auburn, a 21-year-old
from Punchbowl and a 22-year-old from Heckenberg.

They are all currently on bail and are yet to learn the charges against them
have been dropped.

Head of Strike Force Enoggera Detective Superintendent Ken McKay yesterday said
the legal advice meant police had to prove ''individual acts''.

''We have to be able to prove what each person did,'' he said.

He said officers had been able to rely on video footage as evidence against
rioters at Cronulla but there was no similar account of the Brighton reprisal
attacks.

The six, whose charges have been dropped were arrested by Strike Force Enoggera
police on February 23.

Until they received the new legal advice last week, police believed the
circumstantial evidence they had gathered would be enough because affray charges
after similar mob violence had been successful before.

After the 1984 Milperra bikie massacre police successfully charged people who
were present at the time of the shooting with affray.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              813 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                      July 03, 2001 Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Quiet Riot' revives for new generation

BYLINE: Scott McLennan

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; SCOTT MCLENNAN; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 587 words



Screaming pop-metal is making the rounds again, and this time rather than having
parents complain about it, they are teaching their children the subtle
differences between Poison, Ratt and Motley Crue.

These parents being the original fans of hair metal.

Quiet Riot singer Kevin DuBrow said this is a concept he never imagined back in
the early '80s when his band was on top of the world with the hits Bang Your
Head,'' Cum on Feel The Noize'' and Mama Weer All Crazee Now.'' Back then, with
its boozed-up, lascivious image, Quiet Riot stood for all that parents love to
hate.

We're seeing the whole gamut at these concerts. There was a line of girls all
dressed like Britney Spears waiting for autographs the other night,'' DuBrow
said in a recent phone conversation.

Though out of the public eye for many years, Quiet Riot is back in action this
summer on the Poison Glam Slam Metal Jam, an '80s-metal fest with Poison,
Warrant, Quiet Riot and Enuff z'Nuff. The show comes to the Tweeter Center for
the Performing Arts in Mansfield Saturday.

Like many bands that were huge in the '80s, Quiet Riot is enjoying a bit of a
revival thanks to exposure on VH-1's addictive Behind the Music'' program, which
overly dramatizes a band's rise, fall and potential for rebirth.

Quiet Riot's rise is linked to the 1983 release of the album Metal Health,''
which has sold 10 million copies. The band formed in the late '70s with DuBrow
and guitarist Randy Rhoads, but achieved little notice beyond a couple of
records released in Japan. Rhoads left Quiet Riot to join forces with Ozzy
Osbourne in 1980 and became a revered guitar figure by the time of his death in
a 1982 plane crash.

DuBrow rebuilt Quiet Riot with guitarist Carlos Cavazo, bass player Rudy Sarzo
and drummer Frankie Banali. And while this lineup had its permutations through
the years, including a full two-year disappearance by Quiet Riot from '89 to
'91, this is the crew that once again wears the Riot mantle.

Not only is Quiet Riot back on tour, the group has a new album in stores. It's
called Guilty Pleasures,'' and while it does not have a cover of a Slade song
(once a surefire hit mechanism for the band), everything else about the CD is
true-blue Riot. The disc boasts fast, melodic guitars, piercing vocals and songs
that beg you to come on and party.

'90s bands have a more sarcastic view of '80s bands. But we still embrace that
celebration of rock 'n' roll. So it's no different than the way we looked down
on Sinatra when we first heard The Beatles growing up. As you get older you
learn there is room for more than one kind of music,'' DuBrow said.

And though the song remains the same for Quiet Riot, the lifestyle has changed
considerably. DuBrow said that Guilty Pleasures'' is the first album he's
written completely sober.

I have no regrets about the drugs and alcohol days of the '80s. I loved the
self-destructive days, not that I advocate taking drugs. But misbehaving was
part of being a rock star, and we wanted to be rock stars. Now we're into
putting on a great show,'' DuBrow said.

DuBrow said that road work has been satisfying. It would be nice, though, if
radio would again embrace this brand of pop metal.

What it takes is one band with one song to take it over the top. We all thought
that would come from Van Halen with David Lee Roth back in the group. I don't
know if it's going to be us doing it,'' DuBrow said.  Even if it doesn't blow
up, I'm still doing what I love to do.''

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; FILE PHOTO ; Quiet Riot will be at the Tweeter Center Saturday.

               Copyright 2001 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


                              814 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Anti-Sikh riots were sponsored by Cong, BJP says

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 444 words


NEW DELHI: Opposition BJP on Thursday attacked Congress and alleged that the
1984 anti-Sikh riots in which Jagdish Tytler is facing charges were "sponsored"
by the ruling party at the behest of the Gandhi family and sought to know why
the party was silent on the issue for the last 28 years.

The main opposition also said there were no similarities between the 1984
"massacre" and the 2002 post-Godhra riots and claimed that prompt action was
taken by the Gujarat government in the latter case.

"We welcome the court decision to reopen the case against Congress leader
Jagdish Tytler in the 1984 anti-Sikh massacre. He is a permanent invitee to the
Congress Working Committee and even contested the 2004 elections. The riots were
actually a Congress-sponsored massacre of Sikhs," BJP spokesperson Nirmala
Sitharaman told reporters. She claimed that the riots, allegedly involving some
Congress leaders including Tytler, had the support of then PM Rajiv Gandhi and
his family.

"Rajiv Gandhi had said (after Indira Gandhi's assassination) that when a big
tree falls the earth shakes. No statement has come from the family even after 28
years. Why are they silent? If there had been any sensitivity in the family,
they would have apologized," she said.

Other than Tytler, Congress leaders H K L Bhagat, Dharam Das Shastri, Sajjan
Kumar and Kamal Nath have been named by various committees which have probed the
1984 riots, the BJP claimed.

The party insisted that the anti-Sikh riots could not be compared to the 2002
Gujarat riots. "In 2002, it was a riot. I would not justify it for even a
minute. But the administration responded by calling in the Army. In 1984, it was
a one-sided massacre. People were not allowed to lodge an FIR. Army was deployed
in Delhi only on the third day and in other places only on the fourth day,"
Sitharaman said.

Sitharaman quoted from various commissions and committees which had probed the
1984 riots and claimed that Congress leaders and workers had incited or helped
mobs in attacking Sikhs.

"Even as the news of the unfortunate death of the prime minister (Indira Gandhi)
spread, Congress leaders were distributing voters' list and ration cards among
themselves to single out Sikhs," she said, adding that houses were branded as
was done by Nazi forces against Jews during the World War.

She said the government of the day was so "insensitive" that small businessmen
whose property was damaged in the riots were not given insurance cover.
"Nanavati Commission has observed that despite the curfew, mobs indulging in
violence were moving freely and committing acts of looting and killing,"
Sitharaman said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              815 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      MX Brisbane (Queensland, Australia)

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                1 - BRIS Edition

Doom & gloom

SECTION: MX; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544  words


44 INMATES DIE IN PRISON RIOT

A prison riot in northern Mexico has left at least 44 people dead.

Nuevo Leon state public security spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the riot
broke out yesterday in a high-security section of a prison in Apodaca, outside
Monterrey.

A group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took one of the guards
hostage, Domene said. The riot then spread to a second cell block, and at least
44 people died before authorities regained control of the prison a couple of
hours later.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons as gangs and drug cartels
stage jail breaks and battle for control.

CAR BOMBER HITS POLICE ACADEMY

A suicide car bomber has blown himself up in front of a Baghdad police academy,
killing 15 people and wounding 21 others in the deadliest attack in the Iraqi
capital in weeks.

At least eight other people were killed in attacks elsewhere in Iraq yesterday.

The ministry official said the assailant was at the wheel of a car rigged with
explosives and that most of the victims were students applying to join the
police force.

BUS PLUNGES OVER CLIFF KILLING 26

A bus has plunged down a ravine in northern Ecuador, killing at least 26 people
and injuring 29 others.

``We have 26 fatalities, of which 14 are men, 10 are women and two are
children,'' said Col. Marco Antonio Hadathy, fire chief in the city of Ibarra.
The bus was travelling between Ibarra, 120km north of Quito, and San Lorenzo.

NAKED GIRL FOUND EATING FROM BINS

A southern Californian woman is facing child endangerment charges after her
12-year-old daughter was found wandering naked through a neighborhood, eating
from rubbish bins.

A resident of Temecula, southeast of downtown Los Angeles, called emergency on
Thursday after seeing the girl searching bins for food, KTLA-TV reported.

Riverside County sheriff's deputies found her naked inside a nearby car and
discovered her mother, 40-year-old Tracy Betts, had left her daughter inside the
vehicle.

Betts, a teacher's assistant, was arrested on suspicion of child endangerment.

Her daughter, whose identity was not released, was taken to a local hospital and
placed in protective custody.

Betts was booked into jail and released on $15,000 bail. She is scheduled to
appear in court on April 12.

KOREAN THREAT TO BOMB ISLANDS

North Korea's military has warned it could bombard islands near the disputed
Yellow Sea border with South Korea, accusing Seoul of planning a naval live-fire
drill in the area.

The North warned residents of five islands to ``evacuate to safe areas'' before
what it said was the scheduled start time of the exercise this morning.

Pyongyang has taken a hostile tone towards Seoul since Kim Jong-Un, the youngest
son of the late leader Kim Jong-Il, took over following the death of his father
in December.

GAS LEAK SPARKS DISCO BLASTS

Seventeen people have been injured in two blasts at a disco in Romania after an
apparent gas leak in a nearby office.

The first blast occurred in the early hours yesterday, injuring seven at the
basement disco in the city of Sighetu Marmatiei.

A local government official said there was another explosion hours later as an
investigation into the first blast began.

He says a further 10 people were injured, including firefighters and two police
officers.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MXB


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              816 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      December 1, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Communal riots could erupt even in Chandni Chowk if Modi becomes PM, warns
Sheila Dikshit

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 222  words


New Delhi: Launching a scathing counter-attack on Narendra Modi, Delhi cheif
minister Sheila Dikshit on Saturday warned that there was a serious possibility
of communal riots breaking out in Delhi if the Gujarat CM becomes the India's
prime minister.

Speaking at an election rally in Ballimaran in Chandni Chowk hours after Modi
addressed last of his three rallies in the Capital, Dikshit's fears were
reiterated by Union minister and local MP Kapil Sibal who was also present at
the event.

"Aur woh jo hain Narendra Modi ... agar woh satta mein aa gaye to aisa na ho ki
yahaan dange ho jayein (If Narendra Modi comes to power, it is possible that you
may see riots here)," Dikshit said during her address, as she warned voters in
the Muslim dominated neighbourhood to be wary of BJP's star campaigner
misleading speeches.

"Modi jahaan jatey hain wahaan riot ho jata hai. Gujarat mein Godhra aur UP mein
gaye toh phir riot ho gaya (Wherever Modi goes there is a riot. Godhra happened
in Gujarat and when he went to UP there was a riot). He wants to be PM. BJP has
only one hero, Modi, and in the court of this hero, all decisions are his. He
makes us all stand in that court and passes verdict where he gives himself 100
and everyone else zero. I want to ask where the hero was in 2002 during Godhra
riots?" Sibal was quoted as saying.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              817 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

BYLINE: RASHID RAZAQ

LENGTH: 428 words


THE London riots will happen again without reforms of how police and the
Independent Police Complaints Commission deal with fatal shootings, an
independent inquiry has found. The Riots Communities and Victims Panel said the
lack of an official response to the death of Mark Duggan in Tottenham on August
4 allowed rumours that he had been "assassinated" by police to spread by social
media and "trigger" the violence. Heather Rabbatts, part of the inquiry set up
to look at the impact and causes of the disorder, said: "Both the IPCC and the
police are trying to navigate a very complicated line. They've set in place
parameters. Clearly we live in a very different age. "There needs to be a review
of their protocols in light of social media. You can no longer have no comment
in a viral space because it will be filled with rumour." The panel also found
that looting was driven by organised criminal as well as opportunists who
believed police had ?lost control". It said the trouble could have been
prevented from spreading to the rest of the capital and the country if the
initial police response in Tottenham had been more "robust".

The panel, chaired by former JobCentre Plus chief Darra Singh, visited 20
affected areas and interviewed thousands of victims and rioters. In a 111-page
interim report published today, the panel did not identify a single cause but
called for action in several areas. Mr Singh, speaking 30 years after the
publication of the Scarman report on the Brixton riots, said: "The panel is
clear that the riots in August were different disturbances from those in 1981.
However... in some respects, the underlying challenges are strikingly similar.
While deprivation is not an excuse for criminal behaviour we must seek to tackle
the underlying causes. "The threat of future riots and the response to them is
not somebody else's problem." Recommendations include reform of stop-and-search
to ensure community "confidence is not undermined" after repeated complaints
that searches are carried out "without courtesy". Police authorities should also
"review their emergency plans to ensure they properly cover public disorder on
the scale of the August riots". Respondents complained of feeling "abandoned",
prompting a call for the police to prioritise "the protection of individuals and
residential areas over commercial property".

Although not a full public inquiry, the investigation was backed by Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg when it was launched 10 weeks ago. The panel's full findings
will be published next March.

© London Evening Standard

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2011   Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              818 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Brownsville Herald (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 15, 2008 Friday

21 inmates charged jail riot

BYLINE: Jose Borjon, The Brownsville Herald, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


Feb. 15--Twenty-one inmates have been charged with rioting and engaging in
organized criminal activity after the riot that broke out Wednesday night at the
Carrizalez-Rucker Detention Center in Olmito, Sheriff Omar Lucio said.

Inmates in two pods started the riot shortly before 8 p.m., he said. Jail
supervisors called the SWAT team at 8:30 p.m. Brownsville fire and emergency
medical services were on hand, though no injuries were reported.

Rioting is a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to 180 days in jail and a
$2,000 fine. Engaging in organized criminal activity is a Class A misdemeanor,
punishable by up to one year in jail and a $4,000 fine, according to the Texas
Penal Code.

Lucio would not let The Brownsville Herald inside the jail to see where the riot
happened or interview inmates involved in it.

The sheriff said members of the Valley's notorious Valluco gang started the riot
, after detention guards found marijuana inside the pods. The sheriff did not
know how much marijuana the detention guards confiscated.

Magistrate Judge Patricia Hernandez arraigned the 21 inmates. She set their
bonds at $60,000 each.

"Everything (is) back to normal," Lucio said. "We just isolated those people
from the rest of the inmates. Everything is pretty quite."

This was the second riot reported at the jail since he took office in 2005,
Lucio said.

"When I left (Wednesday night), everything was back to normal," Lucio said.
"Today I checked, everyone is behaving--no complaints."

To see more of The Brownsville Herald, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.brownsvilleherald.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Brownsville Herald,
Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080215-BV-21-inmates-charged-jail-riot-0215

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BV


                     Copyright 2008 The Brownsville Herald


                              819 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Charges laid in Vancouver riot; n B.C. gov't announces independent panel
investigation of riot

BYLINE: Postmedia News u

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 422  words


VANCOUVER - Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing that took place
during the June 15 Stanley Cup riot, Vancouver Police announced yesterday.

Charges have been recommended against another six people, ranging from mischief
and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the suspects
have previous criminal histories.

Also yesterday, Premier Christy Clark announced that an independent panel will
investigate the riot. It is to report to the province by Aug. 31 and its
findings will be made public.

Among other things, the panel will begin by looking at the Stanley Cup riot of
1994, the availability of liquor to the thousands who had gathered in the
streets to watch the final game and what needs to be done to avoid a repetition
of riots at future public events.

"Shameful acts like those seen around the world demand a tough, independent and
critical eye - and that's exactly what we expect this review to deliver," said
Solicitor General Shirley Bond in a statement. "It must look back, given the
events 17 years before and the many reviews that followed. And it must look
forward, to ensure Vancouver reclaims its place on the world stage as a vibrant,
safe city in which to celebrate, no matter the nature of the event or the size
of the crowd."

Burnaby, B.C., resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, has been charged with
aggravated assault after two men were stabbed. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle
Evans, 27, has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public
peace in the same incident.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young man
from Ladner, B.C., accused of vandalizing a pickup truck, a 19-year-old accused
of looting a purse from The Bay and a 17-year-old accused in trying to set a
police car ablaze.

The newly established Integrated Riot Investigation Team is working its way
through thousands of photographs and video images from the riot to identify
those who committed criminal acts.

Vancouver Police are urging those who were caught in the act to come forward and
turn themselves in. "If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at
a time that is convenient for you," police chief Jim Chu said yesterday. "If you
wait until we find you - and we will find you - we will arrest you in a public
manner suitable to the public crimes you have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said - that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble, while others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              820 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday
                                Ahmedabad Mirror

'No report can compensate the loss of a loved one'

BYLINE: Zahid Qureshi

SECTION: OTHERS

LENGTH: 301 words


Nothing can dull the pain caused by the loss of a loved one, says Qutubuddin
Ansari, a day after Nanavati Commission submitted its final inquiry report into
the post-Godhra riots to Chief Minister Anandiben Patel. "Riot victims lost
their families and the pain will not lessen whether the commission report
favours them or not," said the Rakhial resident, the iconic 'face of 2002 riots'
which left nearly 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, dead in Gujarat.

Ansari said, "A number of innocent Hindus and Muslims lost their loved ones in
the 2002 riots. Since then, they have been living with the pain of that loss.
Life does not stop but one cannot forget the time they had spent with those gone
now." He added, "My mother died a month ago due to old age. My relatives and
friends gave me moral support but the loss is mine alone. She will never come
back and it is tough to reconcile with that fact. In the same way, there are
many Hindu and Muslim families out there who lost someone close in the riots. No
one can fill the empty space left by the departed."

Commenting on the report, he said, "The report is the opinion of the judges. The
fact remains that whatever is written in the report, it cannot compensate for
the loss suffered by riot victims." Ansari, a tailor by profession, went on to
praise the Hindu business community, saying, "Following the riots, I went to the
market where a number of Hindus met me and asked me if I needed any kind of
help. Even to this date, they stand by me and support me. This shows that nobody
wants to fight with each other."

Ansari was 28 years old when the 2002 riots took place. Reuters' photographer
Arko Datta's picture of him became the defining image of the Gujarat riots,
embodying the horror of one of the worst episodes of communal violence in
India's history.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              821 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              June 14, 2013 Friday
                                Final_C Edition

Riot could happen again: Union; Police labour president says 'there's no way to
completely prevent riots'

BYLINE: Kent Spencer, The Province; With A File From Graham Slaughter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 330 words


Two years have passed since the infamous Stanley Cup riot, but the head of the
city's police union says it could happen again.

Vancouver Police Union president Tom Stamatakis said Thursday that "we're still
going to have those kinds of things happen."

"There's no way to completely prevent riots," he said.

The second anniversary of the June 15, 2011, riot occurs on Saturday. It
happened after the Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup final.

A total of 229 people have been charged with criminal offences; 149 have entered
guilty pleas.

Recommendations from four official reports called for equipment upgrades like a
new $800,000 command vehicle unveiled Thursday.

Police said the "high-tech office" could help prevent future riots from getting
out of control. The sleek black truck sports seven computers and a camera with a
sightline of five kilometres.

"If the crowd is moving we can see them throwing Molotov cocktails," said police
Supt. Daryl Wiebe. "It'll inform my deployment."

There have been 14 major sports-related riots in the past 78 years in Canadian
cities. But Stamatakis said memories fade and decision-makers face the need to
curtail spending on riot-related gear.

"The next thing, 10 or 11 years later another event happens and people wonder
why police weren't better prepared," he said.

The official reports determined that thousands willingly participated in five
hours of criminal mayhem and tens of thousands looked on complacently.

The City of Vancouver has red-flagged public viewing areas like the one on
Georgia Street that attracted alcohol-fuelled yahoos bent on destruction.

The new policies were in place this spring as the Canucks entered the 2013
playoffs, but the team cooperated by flopping out early.

"The riot changed a lot of things," said Charles Gauthier, executive director of
the Downtown Vancouver Business Improvement Association.

"The city is obligated to ensure that events can occur in a safe way."

kspencer@theprovince.com

twitter.com/kentspencer2

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Bosch,  PNG Files; Police collide with rowdy hockey fans at
Georgia and Homer streets after Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final on June 15,
2011.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              822 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Beauty queen pleads guilty for part in Cup riot; Miss Congeniality doesn't
deserve notoriety: lawyer

BYLINE: James Keller, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 302 words


A former beauty queen whose crowning as Miss Congeniality made her one of the
highest-profile suspects in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot has pleaded guilty, and
her lawyer has suggested the woman's international notoriety has gone far beyond
what her case deserves.

Sophie Laboissonniere, who was 20 at the time of the June 2011 riot, was not in
court Monday, when her lawyer entered the plea on her behalf. The Richmond,
B.C., resident was among the first batch of suspects charged after the riot.
Media reports quickly identified her as the winner of Miss Congeniality at a
local beauty pageant, sending her name and photo across the country and further
afield.

She was charged with one count of participating in a riot and one count of
breaking and entering. She pleaded guilty to the riot charge, while the
break-and-enter charge will be stayed by the Crown once she is sentenced, said
her lawyer, David Bauer.

The court has yet to hear what exactly Laboissonniere did as rioters torched
cars, smashed windows and looted stores around her. Those details will come out
at a sentencing hearing later this year, which she must attend, Baker said.

"I don't think it's appropriate for me to be commenting on the facts now, but I
can say this: compared to the vast majority of people charged here, her
participation in this riot was at the very low end of the scale," Baker told
reporters outside provincial court.

"She has received a level of notoriety that goes way beyond the offence she
committed. She's stuck with that for a long time."

When asked why Labois-sonniere did not appear at the hearing, Baker said, "To
avoid this," as he faced a throng of reporters and television cameras

The riot started in the dying minutes of Game 7 on June 15, 2011, as the
Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup to the Boston Bruins.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: sophielaboissonnierenewyear.blogspot.com; Miss Congeniality Sophie
Laboissonniere pleaded guilty to a riot charge.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              823 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Barking & Dagenham Post

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 330 words


'Small traders that suffered damage during last summer's riots could be left
without insurance cover due to a hike in premiums and bureaucracy, politicians
have warned.

Members of the London Assembly's budget and performance committee (BPC) heard
warnings from Tottenham MP David Lammy and London Assembly Member for City and
East, John Biggs, about problems businesses are facing in rebuilding after the
riots, during a committee meeting last week.



They blamed the complicated and bureaucratic claims procedures of the Riot
Damages Act for the fact that many businesses opted out of insurance cover.

Mr Biggs, chairman of the assembly's budget and performance committee, who
represents Barking and Dagenham, said: "Ten months on from the riots it's clear
that some traders are still struggling to get the cash to rebuild their
businesses.

"We must not allow a worrying rise in uninsured and under-insured businesses to
be a legacy of the riots and we hope to put these concerns to the insurance
industry at our next meeting."

The London Riots started in Tottenham following the police shooting of Mark
Duggan, before spreading across other parts of the capital.

Shops were attacked and damaged in Barking's  Ripple Road on August 8, before
violence spread across the borough to Highbridge Road and parts of High Street,
Chadwell Heath.

It was mostly chain stores that were looted, such as electric goods store Comet
in Abbey Retail Park and Whalebone Lane South. However, several grocery stores
and fast food restaurants were also affected.

Some businesses are waiting on the insurance companies and some on the police to
pay out through the Riots Damages Act.

Some traders had told the speakers that the process of applying for regeneration
funding was confusing.

Others feared a rise in insurance premiums and told of hikes of up to 20 per
cent in the last year.

The London Assembly committee will invite representatives of the insurance
industry and councils to its next meeting on July 10.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BDP


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              825 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

40 killed in Mexican prison riot

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 273 words


MONTERREY, Mexico (AP)   A prison riot in northern Mexico left at least 40
people dead early Sunday, according to a security official.

Nuevo Leon state public security spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the riot
broke out at about 2 a.m. in a high-security section of a prison in the city of
Apodaca outside of the northern industrial city of Monterrey.

A group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took one of the guards
hostage, Domene said. The riot then spread to a second cell block, and at least
40 people died before authorities regained control of the prison a couple of
hours later.

Families of the prisoners gathered outside the prison Sunday morning, pushing at
the fences and shouting at police to demand word of the victims.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons as gangs and drug cartels
stage jail breaks and battle for control of penitentiaries, often with the
involvement of officials.

Some 31 prisoners died in January in a prison riot in the Gulf coast city of
Altamira in Tamaulipas state, which borders Texas. Another fight in a prison in
the Tamaulipas border city of Matamoros in October killed 20 inmates and injured
12.

In July, a riot at a prison in the border city of Juarez killed 17 inmates.
Mexican authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash.
Surveillance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed prisoners into
a room where the slain victims were reportedly holding a party.

Twenty-three people were killed in a prison riot in Durango city in 2010, and a
2009 riot in Gomez Palacio, another city in the northern Mexican state of
Durango, killed 19 people.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              826 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London riots: Tottenham's Broadwater Farm riots 25 years on

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 277 words


Last October marked the 25th anniversary of the Broadwater Farm riots where PC
Keith Blakelock was viciously murdered by a mob.



The riots began on the Tottenham estate on October 6, 1985 when a small rally
over the death of Cynthia Jarrett escalated into violence.

The 49-year-old mother had collapsed during a police raid on her home, near to
Broadwater Farm, after her son was arrested.

The death sparked outrage from members of the black community, where tension
between local black youth and the police was already high.

The next day there was a small demonstration outside Tottenham Police Station,
but violence erupted when a police car driving past Broadwater Farm was attacked
and police vans were set upon by a mob with machetes, bars and knives.

At 9.30pm police and firefighters responded to reports of a fire in Tangmere
block on the estate, but were forced to withdraw chased by rioters.

Muswell Hill beat bobby PC Blakelock was hacked to death when he stumbled and
was surrounded by rioters wielding knives and a machete.

Colleague PC Richard Coombes suffered serious facial injuries in the effort to
rescue his fellow officer.

Retired PC Adrian Griffiths, who was at Broadwater Farm that night and served at
the Brixton riots the week before, said last October: "It was absolutely
terrifying. I've been in other riots but this was something else. It was like
two worlds colliding, it was unbelievable."

Three men were jailed for PC Blakelock's murder but were cleared on appeal in
1991 when evidence showed police notes had been altered.

The aftermath of the Broadwater Farm riot led to changes in police tactics and
efforts to re-engage with the community.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              827 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London riots: Tottenham's Broadwater Farm riots 25 years on

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 277 words


Last October marked the 25th anniversary of the Broadwater Farm riots where PC
Keith Blakelock was viciously murdered by a mob.



The riots began on the Tottenham estate on October 6, 1985 when a small rally
over the death of Cynthia Jarrett escalated into violence.

The 49-year-old mother had collapsed during a police raid on her home, near to
Broadwater Farm, after her son was arrested.

The death sparked outrage from members of the black community, where tension
between local black youth and the police was already high.

The next day there was a small demonstration outside Tottenham Police Station,
but violence erupted when a police car driving past Broadwater Farm was attacked
and police vans were set upon by a mob with machetes, bars and knives.

At 9.30pm police and firefighters responded to reports of a fire in Tangmere
block on the estate, but were forced to withdraw chased by rioters.

Muswell Hill beat bobby PC Blakelock was hacked to death when he stumbled and
was surrounded by rioters wielding knives and a machete.

Colleague PC Richard Coombes suffered serious facial injuries in the effort to
rescue his fellow officer.

Retired PC Adrian Griffiths, who was at Broadwater Farm that night and served at
the Brixton riots the week before, said last October: "It was absolutely
terrifying. I've been in other riots but this was something else. It was like
two worlds colliding, it was unbelievable."

Three men were jailed for PC Blakelock's murder but were cleared on appeal in
1991 when evidence showed police notes had been altered.

The aftermath of the Broadwater Farm riot led to changes in police tactics and
efforts to re-engage with the community.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              828 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 12, 2016 Thursday

Misfits reunite classic lineup for first time in 33 years to headline Riot Fest

BYLINE: Josh Terry, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 260 words


May 12--In what's sure to be the first of many big announcements now that Riot
Fest is gearing up to release its 2016 bill, iconic horror-punk band the Misfits
are reuniting with its classic lineup for the three-day festival (happening
Sept. 16-18 at Douglas Park).

With frontman Glenn Danzig, guitarist Doyle Wolfgang Von Frankenstein and
bassist Jerry Only all signed on, it'll be the first time the three will perform
together since the group broke up in 1983. The newly re-formed group will play,
and headline, both Riot Fest Denver and Riot Fest Chicago as "The Original
Misfits."

A statement from Riot Fest reads, "For the 'First Time in over Three Decades,'
legions of diehard fans from around the world will have the opportunity to hear
the Original Band that created thousands of bands in their wake."

Though Misfits have reformed before, once with just Von Frankenstein and Only in
1995, fans have been anticipating a full band reunion for decades. In 2005, Von
Frankenstein joined Glenn Danzig and his eponymous band Danzig to perform early
Misfits songs, with Danzig calling the shows "the closest thing to a Misfits
reunion anyone is ever going to see." However, Von Frankenstein has been open to
a reunion as recently as 2014, when he told Loudwire, "... if Glenn wants to
come be a team player and leave that s -- t at home, we're good."

@joshhterry -- jterry@redeyechicago.com

Music and cocktail making classes in Chicago? Click here.

___ (c)2016 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160512-1RC-Misfits-reunite-classic-lineup-for-first-time-in-33-years-to-headli
ne-Riot-Fest-0512-20160512

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2016


                              829 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Giving a voice to young people over London riots

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 135 words


An innovative filmmaker has created a new documentary on the London riots.

With 45 hours of footage after four months of filming, Hornsey-based Teddy Nygh
is digging deep to find out why the riots happened in the first place.



His film, Riot From Wrong is being launched on Friday at Riverside Studios in
Hammersmith.

Mr Nygh said the aim of the film was to give "young people and many other people
from all walks of life, affected by the riots, a chance to express their views
openly".

He conducted 60 interviews across the country to not only find solutions, but
also to highlight some of the positive contributions young people make to
society.

Many of these conversations have formed a central part to the sell-out
production of The Riots at the Tricycle Theatre, which has now moved to the
Bernie Grant Arts Centre.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              830 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday

Ugandan police set up squad to deal with riots

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report entitled "Police set up riot squad" published by Ugandan
newspaper The New Vision website on 29 December

The police is creating an elite squad that will be dealing with riots and other
disturbances of law and order, reports Bwogi Buyera.

The inspector general of police, Maj-Gen Kale Kayihura, said the government had
acquired help from South Africa and other countries to train officers in the
techniques of using batons in quelling riots.

Kayihura was on Thursday [27 December] speaking at a university students'
dialogue organized by Kigezi students association at Little Ritz Hotel in Kabale
town. Kayihura said he was opposed to the use of tear-gas in quelling riots and
strikes because it is expensive and not effective.

In 2006 and 2007, the country experienced a number of riots in the city, which
were controlled using tear-gas.

Kayihura said the police force would be increased from 25,000 to 50,000 by 2013,
in order to meet the required ratio of one police officer to 500 Ugandans.

He advised young people in higher institutions of learning to resolve their
grievances through dialogue.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 29 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              831 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     April 20, 2016 Wednesday 11:06 AM GMT

Mayor's office will not foot bill for London riots compensation

BYLINE: Tristan Kirk

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 423 words


Boris Johnson has won a Supreme Court compensation fight with insurance
companies following the 2011 London riots.

The dispute centred on damage caused to a Sony warehouse in Enfield, north
London, during rioting in August 2011, and the provisions of a piece of
Victorian legislation - the 1886 Riot Damages Act.

Supreme Court justices analysed legal argument at a hearing in London in January
and published their ruling on Wednesday.

They concluded that the mayor's office should not have to pay compensation for
loss of profit and rent.

Mr Johnson had asked for a Supreme Court ruling following hearings in the High
Court and Court Of Appeal.

Judges had been told that the 1886 legislation said compensation for "damage by
riot" should be paid out of police funds.

A number of insurance companies had argued that the destruction and looting of
the Sony warehouse fell into that category.

Mr Johnson - whose office funds the Metropolitan Police - disagreed.

A High Court judge had ruled that the Sony warehouse was damaged during
"widespread civil disorder".

Mr Justice Flaux said losses had arisen out of damage caused by "persons
riotously and tumultuously assembled" and should be paid for out of police
funds.

But he decided that there was a limit to liability - and said "consequential
losses", including loss of profit and rent, were not "in principle recoverable".

Insurers challenged his decision on the "extent of liability" - and the Court of
Appeal ruled in their favour.

Appeal judges concluded that legislation provided a right to compensation for
consequential loss.

Read more

Battle over London riots compensation reaches the Supreme Court

Two police officers sacked over vile racist texts sent during London riots

Jihadist rapper filmed ranting at police on the first night of London riots in
Tottenham in 2011

Police horses and dogs awarded animal OBE for helping during London riots

Taxpayers face £10m bill to compensate firms looted in London riots

But five Supreme Court justices have overturned that appeal court decision in
the wake of Mr Johnson's challenge.

They have concluded that the Riot Damages Act does not "extend to cover
consequential losses".

Mr Justice Flaux had said insurers claimed that losses added up to more than £60
million - and their claims included a £9.8 million claim for lost profit and a
£1.6 million claim for lost rent.

The warehouse was destroyed late on August 8 2011 during rioting in London and
other parts of Britain after a man was shot and killed by police in Tottenham,
north London, judges had heard.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              832 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Community panel delivers verdict on progress since Tottenham riots

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 300 words


One year on from the riots, a panel of community leaders from Tottenham has
delivered its verdict on how much progress has been made in the area since the
carnage of August 6, 2011.



The independent Community Panel, comprised of figures from business, faith
groups, education, youth organisations and the council, was launched in the wake
of the riots to examine the challenges facing Tottenham and offer
recommendations for change and regeneration.

To mark the first anniversary of the disorder, the panel has released a report
on where it feels progress has been made and where more needs to be done.

It says progress has been made in securing investment in regeneration projects,
in Haringey Council's commitment to creating jobs, in the work of organisations
providing opportunities for young people in Haringey, as well as the funding
identified to deliver the new youth strategy for Haringey.

The report also praises Haringey police for its reduction in stop and searches.

However, it advises more needs to be done to ensure the community is involved in
training police, and that officers should be given more flexibility to ensure
the best of them stay in Haringey.

In addition, the report urges Metropolitan Police commissioner Bernard
Hogan-Howe to deliver his review of community engagement.

It also heralds Gladesmore School for their Everybody Dreams song and its
positive message about Tottenham.

But the panel note that the pace of change needs to be accelerated and
communicating progress should be better.

They also insist pressure should be put on developers and businesses in
Tottenham to ensure they employ local people.

Cllr Richard Wilson, leader of Haringey Liberal Democrats, said the council
needs to "prioritise" young people, as well as communities, for a "lasting
legacy" to be achieved.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              834 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                              June 12, 2016 Sunday

Centre's SIT to reopen 75 closed cases of 1984 Genocide

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 12 -- A move that could ring political resonance in poll-bound
Punjab, The special investigation team (SIT) appointed by the Home Ministry is
set to reopen and reinvestigate close to 75 closed cases related to the 1984
riots anti-Sikh riots.

The riots that killed more than 3,000 people were in retaliation against the
assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards on
October 31, 1984.

Various Sikh representations have been demanding the reinvestigation of 1984
riot victim cases, eversince the Modi government has come to the power.

Close to 2,733 deaths were accounted for in Delhi alone and most of those killed
in then riots were Sikhs. However, qwing to the non-availability of substantial
documents and lack of evidences, the related cases were closed. Now, after
reviewing their documents, the SIT has decided to re-examine about 75 cases so
far.

According to the reports, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently
written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to expedite the
investigations into the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Sikh community has been for long demanding the reinvestigation in the riots
case.

Earlier, following a recommendation of Justice (retd) G P Mathur Committee, set
up by the Narendra Modi government in December 2014; the Home ministry had
increased the compensation to more than 1000 families who had, following the
violent massacre migrated to Punjab from different parts of the country.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


                              835 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                           Croydon Advertiser Series

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

Promises made after were hollow words

SECTION: NEWS:POLITICS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 268  words


This month marks the third anniversary of the riots that hit Croydon so hard in
2011.

In the days after it happened the Prime Minister and Mayor of London came to see
the damage for themselves and promised to help Croydon recover.

The council set up an independent riots panel that heard from hundreds of local
people and made a series of recommendations to prevent any future recurrence.

I recently brought together a group of local business people, community leaders
and victims of the riots to assess how much of the promised support came
through.

What we found was disappointing in the extreme.  Despite promises to make
Croydon safer, today there are 50 fewer police officers than when the riots
happened.

The police shop front promised for the London Road has never opened, and there
is only one remaining 24/7 police station in  the entire borough.

Croydon was allocated  £22.8 million  riots recovery funding.  But instead of
spending it on much needed improvements to the hardest-hit areas the previous
council left most of the money sitting in the bank. The Greater London Authority
threatened to take the money back because it hadn't been used.

Of the 24 recommendations made by the riots panel, not a single one has been met
in full.

Many promises were made to Croydon in the days following the riots, but three
years later it seems those  were hollow words.

No wonder so many of those who were affected feel badly let down.

Our new council has started investing in the worst hit areas this month, but
what a shame we've wasted three years and so much community goodwill in the
meantime.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              836 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

THOUSANDS OF LONDON RIOT VICTIMS STILL WAITING FOR COMPENSATION

BYLINE: MARK BLUNDEN

LENGTH: 437 words


VICTIMS of the London riots are still struggling to get compensation for their
suffering, it is revealed today.

Many of the victims have been helped by councils and charities but direct
compensation through the 1886 Riot (Damages) Act has been unforthcoming. As yet,
none of the thousands of people interviewed by the Riots and Communities Victims
Panel has received any money. In a BBC Inside Out programme tonight, three
victims will tell how their lives were shattered by four days of near-anarchy
that swept the capital in August. The Home Office told the programme that claims
were taking longer than expected because many were "complex" and it was working
to resolve them "as quickly as possible".

One woman, Eva-Maria Hess, told how her Tottenham flat was destroyed by fire,
leaving her homeless until the manager of the pub where she works put her up.
But despite her desperate situation, she cannot access riot fund compensation
she has claimed to put her life back together.

She did not have contents insurance and has lost £20,000 of possessions. She
did, however, receive £500 from the Musicians Benevolent Fund. "Apparently some
of the forms have gone missing," said Ms Hess. "At least that is what I heard
from two representatives of the council. We're still waiting and we don't know
what's going on."

The Met faces a compensation bill of millions of pounds after receiving 3,500
claims from firms and families whose property was destroyed in the riots. The
total was reduced to 2,205 after they were processed, of which the Metropolitan
Police Authority said 42 have so far been paid. The programme also interviewed
composer Helen White and her fiancé, who managed to escape as their flat was
looted and torched. "I remember looking into some of our rooms before we were
leaving and thinking this is the last time I'm going to see a lot of this
stuff," said Ms White. In Croydon, 98 households were made homeless, and Inside
Out met Charlene Munro, who told the Standard last month how she was rebuilding
her life and that of her three-year-old son, Cam'ron. Ms Munro, 30, was helped
by 74-year-old Sue Duncan, known as the "Gran with a Van", who gave her most of
the items she needed to refurnish her flat after they were burned out of their
home by the mob.

A local charity, Croydon Commitment, which is run with the help of local
businesses, has also redecorated her bedrooms. Ms Munro said: "It means a lot,
especially having my son's room done. It means the world, actually, because it's
been really hard and that will really make Cam'ron's day."

Inside Out is on BBC 1 at 7.30pm tonight

© London Evening Standard

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2011   Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              837 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 258 words


TIM BORNETT, Hargham Close, Old Buckenham.

I have been researching riots of the past 250 years or so.

There are similarities in some respect with the Rebecca Riots (between 1839 and
1843 in Wales) and the Gordon riots (1780, mainly in London).



The latter saw buildings burned and looting. The Rebecca rioters often dressed
up in women's clothes to disguise themselves.

For four years there was sporadic rioting. In those days in South Wales there
was no police force as such just some sworn in constables and the yeomanry to
help contain rioting.

in June 1843 the Times newspaper reported on the troubles, listing the main
reasons for the riots rather than branding rioters merely as "lawless
vagabonds".

With the help of some enlightened magistrates in South Wales, Parliament
established a Commission of Enquiry into the Rebecca Riots, which outlined 10
reasons for the riots.

These included poor harvests, pricing policies for butter and cattle and the
turnpike toll gates that resulted in high taxes.

Most of the rioters were farmers and farm labourers.

Order was eventually established with increased yeomanry in localities plus
Parliament acting on most of the Commission's recommendations.

The Gordon Riots - which were protests over the Catholic Relief Act - saw 60,000
rioters assemble in London in June 1780.

Hundreds died and buildings, mainly belonging to Catholics, were looted and
burned.

The modern rioters of recent days may be 'rebels without a cause' but one still
has to look for explanations not just refer to them as "mindless criminals".

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              841 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              843 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Remembering the riot  ;
 In August 1908, violence erupted in Springfield after a white woman alleged a
black man had sexually assaulted her

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Upcoming efforts to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot range from the subtle to the confrontational. All are attempting to
find just the right balance to reflect on one of worst moments of the city's
history.

In August 1908, a white mob, thwarted in an attempt to lynch two black inmates
in the county jail, went on to kill two black men and destroy dozens of black
businesses and homes. Seven people died during two days of rioting.

Appalled that such an event took place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, civil
rights activists in New York began meetings that led to the formation of the
NAACP.

The State Journal-Register, kicking off its own commemorative efforts, tells the
story of the 1908 riot in much greater detail in a special section inside
today's paper.

Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library

On the more confrontational side of this year's events, the Abraham Lincoln
Presidential Library's exhibit on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, which will
open June 14, begins with incendiary comments that appeared in the press.

Not the press from 1908, but from 2007.

Last November, The State Journal-Register's Dave Bakke wrote a column that told
the story of an elderly white couple shopping at County Market in Fairhills Mall
who had ordered a black man also shopping there to carry their grocery bags to
their car. Bakke used the incident to ask how far the city really had come since
1908.

Comments left by readers of Bakke's story on the newspaper's Web site struck
presidential library researchers.

"It was clear that there were a lot of people in the community who just really
did not want to go back to that story," said Carole Merritt, director of the
library's riot exhibit. "They challenged us to ask ourselves why are we doing
this exhibit.

"We begin with where the Springfield community is and its understanding of why
it's necessary to tell this story."

The free exhibit, which will run through October, will occupy two floors of the
presidential library. Displays will tell the story of the riot story and ask
visitors to contemplate how far we've come since then.

The exhibit's title comes from a comment left by one of Bakke's readers:
"Something So Horrible."

Other race riot commemorations

A race riot commission created by Mayor Tim Davlin is taking a more subtle
approach. Its main effort is a Web site hosted by the Springfield Convention and
Visitors Bureau that provides information about the riot and a calendar of race-
riot events. It also is planning a dinner to bring together descendants of riot
victims and of those whose roles during the riot were more positive.

"The commission's theme and the mayor's theme is 'a year of reconciliation,'"
said commission chairwoman Beverly Peters. "We wanted to involve that and adopt
that throughout everything we do."

Peters said the city also will mark seven of the eight historical riot markers
downtown with black and white vinyl wrapping printed with commemorative
lettering.

Peters said the reconciliation theme is borrowed from an ongoing series of
church gatherings sponsored by the Springfield Ministerial Alliance and other
religious groups. Participants have been meeting at different downtown churches
the first Saturday of each month to pray for racial reconciliation and to
commemorate the riot.

The Illinois State Museum is planning two exhibits, both to debut on Aug. 15,
the anniversary of the second day of the riot. One will feature local artwork in
honor of the riot victims. The other, called "All of Us Are Related, Each of Us
is Unique," is a traveling version of a French exhibit of the same name
examining the genetics and the notion of race, based on research performed at
the Department of Genetic Anthropology in Geneva, Switzerland.

Another ISM riot-related event, planned for Sept. 13, will be an education
program for families.

Ken Page, president of the Springfield branch of the NAACP, said plans are in
the works for national NAACP board members to visit the city Aug. 14 for a
ceremony possibly to take place at the Old Capitol State Historic Site.

The University of Illinois at Springfield, Springfield College-Benedictine
University and other institutions are also planning riot commemorations.

Page said many people will be watching how Springfield remembers the riot.

"Not only how it feels about it, but how it will choose to commemorate it," Page
said.

Page also said it's time for the city as a whole to get involved.

"Everyone's been asking me, 'What (is the NAACP) going to do?'" Page said. "It
just has bothered me a lot. We didn't start this fire."

Merritt says there's a lot left to learn from the riot.

"One of the things we found out in reading some of those comments was that most
people really didn't know what the story was. There's a lot of misunderstanding
of what exactly happened," Merritt said.

"The focus of this is exhibit (is) to tell the story clearly - to address the
truth about something that has been swept under the rug, not known, not
acknowledged ... with the hope that it's going to get better."

A detailed look

"Outrage" examines the riot beginning to end. SPECIAL SECTION

Events calendar

Many events marking the riot are planned. Page 6

Our opinion

Looking back helps us look forward. Pages 12, 13

Comprehensive coverage

Everything in the SJ-R's files on the race riot conveniently located on one
site. www.sj-r.com/raceriot

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              845 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Rap star goes on airport rampage

BYLINE: BO WILSON; MATHEUS SANCHEZ

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 280 words


A MINI-RIOT erupted at Heathrow airport after rapper Snoop Dogg and a 30-strong
entourage clashed with police in a departure lounge.

The men - mostly minders - apparently turned violent after being refused entry
to a first-class lounge, smashing up a duty free shop, throwing bottles and
attacking officers.

It took riot police over an hour to arrest the "20-stone men", who were then led
out in handcuffs, with one shouting: "This is how it goes down in LA."

Witnesses believe the group, who were travelling from the US to South Africa,
were refused entry to the British Airways lounge as only a few had first-class
tickets. It is thought they became abusive towards staff and were turned away
from their flight, running riot when police tried to guide them out of the
airport.

Six men, including the 34-yearold American rapper, were arrested. A Heathrow
worker, who took photos from his mobile phone, said: "There were all these huge,
20-stone men smashing up display cabinets and throwing people around. I saw
Snoop Dogg on the ground, with four riot police trying to put him in handcuffs.
His minders were throwing bottles at people.

"There were 15 riot vans and eight police cars outside, with dog sniffer units.
They were throwing the policemen around like pillows. Then the police used
pepper spray on them." The row is thought to have been witnessed by Ronan
Keating, who was in the Terminal 1 lounge.

Snoop Dogg, real name Calvin Broadus, is a former drug dealer and gang member.

He comes from one of LA's most notorious areas and has been accused of several
crimes during his life - including murder, although he was acquitted.

Six men were arrested for violent disorder and affray.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENT DISORDER: SIX MEN WERE ARRESTED AFTER THE CLASH AT HEATHROW. IT
IS BELIEVED IT STARTED OVER ENTRY TO A FIRST-CLASS LOUNGE MINI RIOT: RAPPER
SNOOP DOGG WAS AMONG THOSE HELD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              846 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Z-cover for riot-tainted MLA

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 331 words


BJP MLA Som Sangeet, accused of instigating last year's Muzaffarnagar riots, has
been accorded 'Z' category security, just a notch lower than the highest
protection extended to a threatened VIP. This was approved by the home ministry
after intelligence inputs warned of a threat to his life from alleged extremist
elements.

Som, who represents the Sardhana assembly seat in western UP, is likely to be
protected by CRPF commandos. "We have received a letter from the Centre
regarding upgrade of Som's security (from Y category) to Z category," UP's IG
(law and order) Amrendra Singh Sengar was quoted by PTI as saying. The letter
has been forwarded to the

agency concerned, he said.

The move was slammed by opposition parties, which called it "a joke on the
victims of Muzaffarnagar riots".

But BJP defended the government's decision as based on "independent assessment"
of the threat perception by the intelligence agencies. Sources said home
minister Rajnath Singh approved 'Z' category protection for Som after he was
convinced that his life was under a genuine threat from religious extremists.

Congress minced no words in criticizing the move to shield a riot-accused. "
It's a strange government. Those who are victims of riots are running from
pillar to

post and those who are riot-accused are getting Z category security...nothing
can be a bigger irony, a bigger joke with those whose houses were burnt and
those who suffered huge losses," said Congress leader Manish Tewari.

Congress leader Rashid Alvi questioned the move to provide security to those
allegedly engaged in killings, while leaving the riot victims in the lurch.

"This security cover is not for Som but a licence for killing innocent people
and fanning communal disharmony in a highly sensitive state," JD(U) general
secretary K C Tyagi said.

Tyagi added that the move "will encourage such people involved in instigating
hatred in the society and will create a sense of insecurity and further
alienation among the minorities".

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              848 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Riot fears still lurk: Gogoi;
- Hunt on for conspirators, says CM

BYLINE: A Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 358  words


Guwahati, Jan. 17: Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi today warned that a repeat
of the BTAD riots was possible as the "internal and external forces" responsible
for the violence in the state's Bodo belt last year were still active.

"A conspiracy was hatched by some forces to defame and dislodge my government as
well as the UPA government at the Centre. The forces, both from inside the state
and outside the state or country, even used social media to spread the message
of the BTAD riots as fast as possible. Such developments resulted in fleeing of
thousands of Assamese people from the southern states out of fear of
repercussions," Gogoi said while interacting with reporters at Rajiv Bhawan, the
state Congress headquarters here.

Refraining from identifying the "forces", the chief minister said the government
was aware that those behind the riots were still active and could cause similar
mayhem in future. He said his government would not take any chances and was
taking all possible measures to foil their machinations.

"Investigation is on to identify the forces behind the BTAD violence. The
government is also trying to identify the exact source of hate messages sent
during the riots," he said.

Gogoi expressed satisfaction over fast rehabilitation of riot victims and said
not a single person would be left in relief camps "in a month or so". He had
credited the BTC and the Congress with quick rehabilitation of the riot-affected
people in BTAD during a visit yesterday to Kokrajhar district, where he held a
meeting with council leaders to review the status of rehabilitation.

He had also reiterated that his government would come up with schemes for those
who were orphaned or widowed in the riots.

Gogoi's statement assumes significance in the light of the fact that the All
India United Democratic Front had last month accused him of misleading the
people of Assam as well as the rest of India by saying that peace had returned
to BTAD.

The party's chief, Maulana Badruddin Ajmal, said his party would move Lok Sabha
Speaker Meira Kumar to send an all-party parliamentary delegation to BTAD to
expose the chief minister's "hollow" claim.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              849 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Police, city unprepared for Cup riot; Review uncovers a litany of problems that
plagued municipal authorities during NHL final in Vancouver

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 425  words


Vancouver police and city officials should have been better prepared for the
massive crowds that flooded downtown for Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final, an
independent review of the June 15 riot has concluded.

The review found a litany of problems that plagued police as they tried to
control the incendiary riot - from faulty radios that prevented transmission of
a key command, to the improper location of needed riot control gear, to a lack
of a regional public safety plan.

But the authors of the report, John Furlong and Douglas Keefe, said that the
lessons presented by the riot shouldn't bar Vancouver from holding large public
events downtown in the future.

And they said they concluded Mayor Gregor Robertson played no part in directing
police planning or financial discussions, something he has maintained since the
riot broke out.

The report detailed how what was supposed to be a peaceful family-oriented
gathering for the final game between the Vancouver Canucks and the Boston Bruins
turned into a night of mayhem that led to widespread looting and vandalism.

Furlong and Keefe said the riot, in which at least 60 businesses were looted or
vandalized, "was not beyond imagining" and could have been predicted hours
earlier given the rapidly changing atmosphere downtown.

The two men, aided by a team of public safety consultants, made 53
recommendations aimed at improving public safety, major event planning, the
control of alcohol and judicial outcomes from the riot.

The report also answers one of the hot-button questions that emerged in the
aftermath: how many officers did the Vancouver Police Department deploy the day
of Game 7?

Although Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu has long argued that number is secret
for security purposes, Furlong and Keefe said keeping it secret now is a moot
point. They said the original police plan called for 446 officers to be
deployed. By the end of that night, 928 were on the job.

But they say that initial number was more than adequate to cover the city's
needs and noted that Chicago, in 2009, deployed 450 officers and 20 horses to
police a crowd of 1.2 million.

"We conclude the number of police identified in VPD's plan was appropriate given
the threat level," the report said.

Instead, they said the police department's operational plan did not identify
criteria that would automatically trigger changes in responses.

"For example, the VPD's plan should have required a report on the number of
people downtown beginning late in the morning and providing options for earlier
deployment," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: [Postmedia News]; Hockey fans rioted after game seven of the Stanley
Cup finals in Vancouver.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              850 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Ugandan opposition leader denies role in riots

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by Charles Ariko entitled "Col. Besigye denies role in riots"
published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision website
on 15 September

Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) leader Kizza Besigye has denied having had a
hand in the recent riots in the city that left over 20 people dead and scores of
others injured.

He condemned the riots, saying they were a culmination of a protracted conflict
between President Yoweri Museveni and the Buganda kingdom.

"It was not a conflict between the government and Buganda, but Museveni as a
person against the Buganda kingdom," Besigye told journalists at the FDC
headquarters in Kampala.

President Museveni, while addressing Buganda MPs at State House in Entebbe last
week, said Besigye had promised to fuel vehicles that would ferry people to
Kayunga for the Kabaka's aborted tour of the district. Besigye, however, denied
the claims. "The opposition had nothing to do with the riots. The riots were
spontaneous. There was no pre-arrangement. Nobody knew that they were going to
happen," he said.

Besigye added that last week's riots were a result of Museveni's refusal to
return Buganda properties and to grant the kingdom federal status as recommended
by the Odoki Commission.

He condemned the closure of the Central Broadcasting Station (CBS), Radio
Sapientia, Suubi FM, and Radio Two (Kaboozi ku Bbiri).

Besigye said the closure of CBS was intended to financially cripple the Buganda
kingdom. He also advised the government to compensate the families of the
victims of last week's riots.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 15 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              851 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 31, 2005, Monday

LETTER: YET ANOTHER CALL FOR MORE TAXPAYERS' MONEY

BYLINE: DOUGLAS WATHEN

SECTION: First Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 279 words


Dear Editor - I wonder if there are many people who will remember what the inner
city areas, we used to call them wards, used to be like, say 50 years ago?
Desperate, dismal and dirty, that is what they looked like; back-to-back houses,
two up and two down, near to the factory of employment.

There were no riots in those days. No benefits; no doctors nor dentists readily
available. There were no riots in those days.

Riots flare up these days at any time, for the simplest of reasons,
unpredictably.

What is predictable though, is the call, post riots, for more and more resources
(money). The call for 'more' after a riot never fails; and money is poured in;
taxpayers hard earned money; until the next time. But where does this money, in
its hundreds of thousands, go? Down a very deep black hole it seems.

I think the mysterious 'community leaders' should educate their community, to
appreciate what the country has given them and not to destroy it every now and
then with petrol bombs and baseball bat aggression There were no riots before
immigration. Strikes, perhaps for better pay and conditions at work but not
murderess unprovoked rioting. More resources? After a riot there should be less
and the residents should pay for the clearing up. Perhaps in this way the
'Mysterious Community Leaders' will exact better control of their communities.
Makes a differencewhen one has to pay out of ones own pocket. The call for more
resources has become a habit because they (taxpayer) has provided them.

Already the plea has come out of Lozells in Birmingham: "We are deprived, we
need more resources."

Tough

DOUGLAS WATHEN Salford Priors

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              852 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 6, 2013 Friday

Inmate sentenced to 5 years for role in prison riot

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 517 words


Sept. 06--NATCHEZ -- One man was sentenced to five years in prison and another
pleaded guilty Thursday for his part in the 2012 prison riot that injured dozens
and left one correctional officer dead.

Judge David Bramlette sentenced Pedro Gonzales De Los Reyes to 60 months in
prison and $1.3 million in restitution in U.S. District Court -- Southern
District of Mississippi in Natchez for his participation in the seven-hour
prisoner uprising at the Adams County Correctional Center on May 20, 2012.

The judge said the restitution is to be paid in conjunction with all other
inmates who have been or will be sentenced in the matter. The restitution is
equal to the estimated amount of damage caused by the riot.

ACCC is a privately owned prison, operated by Corrections Corporation of
America.

Reyes pleaded guilty in June to being a part of the riot -- which involved
hundreds of inmates and resulted in the death of correctional officer Catlin
Carithers.

While Bramlette said he took into consideration the fact that U.S. prosecutors
said Reyes had cooperated and been able to give evidence that helped the overall
investigation, he denied the defense's request to sentence him to no more than
40 months on the grounds that he was a minor participant in the event and had
not conspired to riot and had not taken any hostages.

Bramlette said sentencing enhancements that consider any participant in the riot
culpable in the assault and tying up of correctional officers still applied to
Reyes' case.

"Compared to others in this riot situation, he was a minor participant,"
Bramlette said. "Due to his activities and his knowledge of what could happen,
the enhancements are appropriate."

The injuries that were caused to those affected by the riot were "reasonably
foreseeable,'" the judge said.

Speaking through his attorney, Robert McDuff, Reyes apologized to the court and
everyone affected for his part in the riot.

"He regrets it, and he is sorry," McDuff said.

Bramlette said Reyes was formerly convicted of a money laundering scheme
involving $285,000 worth of cocaine.

Federal sentencing guidelines suggested Reyes could have received a sentence
ranging from 57-71 months. Bramlette did not issue a fine with the sentence
because Reyes is indigent, and the judge said Reyes faces deportation at the
expiration of his sentence.

Another inmate, Ernesto Lizama-Reynaga, pleaded guilty Thursday to participating
in the riot.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Patrick Lemon said had the case gone to trial, the
government would have been able to produce three witnesses who said they saw
Lizama-Reynaga attacking a prison command center with a pole and a piece of
concrete.

Lemon said the witnesses would have also testified they saw Lizama-Reynaga
strike windows with a metal pan from the prison kitchen and witnessed him with
items from the prison commissary and throwing items from the kitchen at the
window.

Lizama-Reynaga will be sentenced at 1:30 p.m. Nov. 19.

___ (c)2013 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130906-YY-Inmate-sentenced-to-5-years-for-role-in-prison-riot
-0906-20130906

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2013 The Natchez Democrat


                              853 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

RIOTS 'CAUSED BY GREED OF A MINORITY'

BYLINE: Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 481 words


RESIDENTS, community groups and business leaders attended a Birmingham forum
aimed at establishing the cause of the summer unrest in the city.

The independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel met at the Community Roots
building in Handsworth, near to the site of some of the disturbances during
August, and heard from prominent local figures about how the incidents had
affected Birmingham and how any repeat could be prevented.

The panel's Birmingham visit is one of a series across the UK. It will produce
an interim report on the riots later this month and publish its findings in full
to Prime Minister David Cameron next March.

Panel chairman Darra Singh, former chief executive of Jobcentre Plus, said he
wanted to understand the tragic impact of the riots.

He said: "I have found it extremely harrowing listening to the independent
stories of people whose livelihoods have been ripped away from them and in some
instances have suffered tragedy.

"It is important to spend some time to try to better understand why the riots
happened and whatw e can do to prevent the riots happening again."

He said the panel was talking directly to people who were affected in their
communities including young people, local business owners, parents and
residents.

Gurdeep Singh Bhogal, chairman of the Indian development Association, blamed
greed for the disturbances in Birmingham.

"That's the biggest motivation.

It was a small group of opportunists led by greed," he told the panel.

Many residents of Handsworth spoke anonymously to the panel.

A householder in Montague Road urged officials not to brand the disturbances as
"full blown riots".

He said: "There was world of differences between what happened in August and the
riots of 1985. There wasn't hundreds of people in the streets.

"Many people put in lots of hard work to ensure that the trouble died down after
the problems of the first night.

"The community took control to make sure it didn't get worse.

"There was a lot of tension but a lot a lot of talking from all parts of the
community calmed matters down," he added. "We did not want the trouble again
because it took us 20 years to recover from the last round of riots.

He also praised Lloyds TSB for reopening its Handsworth branch after it had been
badly damaged and looted during the disturbances. "We cannot afford to lose
these kind of resources in a place like Handsworth," he said.

Miles Wainwright, who organised a clean-up campaign in Birmingham, accused city
council chiefs of failing to display leadership and said disaffected youths
needed more role models from their families and society.

"What happened in Birmingham was very different to what happened in London and I
hope the panel realises this," he said.

However, many speakers accused the panel of failing to listen to the views of
younger people who were involved in the disturbances.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Panel: Darra Singh, Simon Marcus, Maeve Sherlock and Peter Latchford.
Talk and debate: Members of the public at the Riots, Communities and Victims
meeting at the Community Roots building on Soho Road, Handsworth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              854 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            January 9, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Fatal shooting by police that sparked London riots was lawful, inquest finds

BYLINE: Tom Rowley; Edward Malnick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 514 words


MARK Duggan, the 29-year-old whose fatal shooting by the Metropolitan Police
sparked the 2011 London riots, was killed lawfully, an inquest has concluded.

Jurors delivered their conclusions to a coroner after four months of evidence
and deliberation at the High Court in London. They reached their conclusion by a
majority of eight to two.

The jury ruled that Mr Duggan had a gun in the taxi in which he was travelling
in Tottenham, north London, in August 2011, before it was stopped by police. By
a majority of nine to one, they ruled that it was more likely than not that he
had thrown it on to a grassy area near the scene as soon as the car was stopped.

Mr Duggan was shot after police marksmen stopped the taxi. Rioting broke out
across London and in several English cities days later. The inquest into his
death began in September.

Speaking on the steps of the court, Mr Duggan''s aunt, Carole Duggan, claimed Mr
Duggan had been "executed". She said the family would fight "until we have no
breath left in our bodies". His brother, Shaun Hall, said: "We came for justice
today - we don''t feel we are leaving with justice."

"  Marcia Willis Stewart, the family's lawyer, called the jury''s conclusions a
"perverse judgment". She said the family were in a state of shock. "For us, that
is an unlawful killing."

"  Mr Duggan's family reacted angrily as the jury read out its conclusions.
Supporters shouted: "Murderers."

Mark Rowley, a Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner, struggled to make
himself heard as he delivered a statement on behalf of the force in front of the
High Court.

"No officer sets out at the start of the day to run an operation that results in
someone dying," he said. "So our sympathy today is with Mark Duggan''s family.
They have lost a loved one.

"But the task our officers face in making split-second decisions when
confronting armed criminals means there is a risk - a very small risk - that
this will happen. Armed criminals have shot dead more than 50 people in London
in the last three-and-a-half years. We send out well-trained, professional armed
officers thousands of times a year to combat this threat, only firing shots once
or twice."

Reviewed The family are considering whether to apply for the conclusions to be
judicially reviewed, according to Deborah Coles from the charity Inquest.

"The family are going to consider the next steps and are going to consider
whether they will judicially review the decision," she said.

David Lammy, MP for Tottenham, said the events surrounding Mr Duggan''s death
still required "further clarification".

He said: "There are fundamental and lingering issues that the Independent Police
Complaints Commission investigation - now re-opened - must attempt to clarify."

"  Speaking before the verdict, Mr Duggan's mother Pamela labelled Scotland Yard
"bullies" and said she would not trust the police again.

"I think they''re bullies," she said. "What do you get out of shooting a bullet
in my son twice? If he''s done something wrong, handcuff him and take him and
put him in a cell." (© BBC News/ Daily Telegraph, London)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot police stand in front of a burning car during riots in Clarence
Road, Hackney, during the London riots in 2011. Below: Mark Rowley after the
inquest. DAN ISTITENE / GETTY IMAGES / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              855 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Deferred deterrent

SECTION: EDITORIAL; VANCOUVER RIOT; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 340 words


Justice delayed after a riot is a terrible idea. Yet only two people have been
charged in connection with the Vancouver riots, two months after they happened.
In London and Manchester, by contrast, more than 1,000 people have been charged,
and some have already been tried, convicted and sentenced - within days of the
last riot. Some courts even heard cases on Saturday and Sunday.

The swift British approach is essential. When thugs are allowed to take over the
streets, whether for a few nights, as in London and beyond, or one night, as in
Vancouver, people need to see justice done. Swift justice sends the message that
order will triumph over chaos - not six months or a year from now, but
immediately. The swiftness is essential to justice's purpose in making society
whole again.

The authorities helped create the public's expectation of prompt justice. "We
are going to vigorously pursue those lawbreakers," Vancouver Chief Constable Jim
Chu declared. Premier Christy Clark said the province would pay for the police
investigation (a task force of more than 30 officers was reportedly set up), and
establish a team of prosecutors who would lay charges and seek tough sentences.
"We are going to send a strong message of deterrence...If you are responsible,
we will hold you responsible."

Now the police and the province offer a litany of excuses. Too much evidence to
sift through. A fear that people might be charged with something small when they
did something big.

On top of the two cases in which charges were laid, police said in June they had
recommended charges in six other cases - but the Crown has yet to approve those
charges.

The criminal-justice system seems as overwhelmed by the challenge as the police
did when the rioters first took them by surprise. This was a well-documented
event, with witnesses, photos and video, Facebook confessions. Never mind
Facebook; more than 30 people walked into police stations and turned themselves
in. London found a way to lay charges. Why can't British Columbia do the same?

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              856 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday

'People have not forgotten wounds of 2002 riots'

BYLINE: Rishi Banerji

LENGTH: 473  words


Maulana Ghulam Vastanvi, newly elected chief of the Dar-Ul-Uloom Deoband, has
said that people have not forgotten wounds of 2002 communal riots in Gujarat and
appealed to chief minister Narendra Modi to come forward to take care of riot
victims. At the same time, the maulana hailed Modi for development and giving
prominence to Muslims in the state.

Vastanvi hails from Surat and was recently elected Mohatmim (chief) of the
Deoband, a world renowned seminary. The maulana, the first Gujarati to be
elected to the post, holds an MBA degree and heads several educational
institutes in Akkalkuva in Nandurbar district in Maharashtra.

"People still haven't forgotten the wounds they sustained during riots. Riots
have blemished the government's image," Vaistanvi said to the media.

"Court should intervene and initiate process to give some relief to those
affected in the riots. CM Modi should personally take care in this regard and
bring lives of affected ones on back on track," he further said.

The religious leader also emphasised on proper rehabilitation of riot victims
and said, "After 2002 riots, many things have changed, but more has to be done,
especially rehabilitation of those who have experienced the trauma."

On the status of minorities in the state, he said, "The BJP and Modi have
realised that Muslims can't be ignored and so they are trying to bridge the gap
between the saffron party and Muslims. They have realised how Muslims are
important for balanced development."

Giving example of the recently concluded civic elections, the Islamic scholar
said, "BJP gave tickets to more than 100 Muslims in various elections held in
the state. This shows how much CM and his party want Muslims to join them in
their work."

He praised the development model of Gujarat and patted CM Modi for his good
work. Vastanvi also admired the BJP government for the fact that no riots have
taken place in the state after 2002. "It is time to move on and every community
is a part of Gujarat's development. There is no discrimination as far as
progress of the state is concerned," he said.

He added, "Gujarat is progressing well and the Muslims too should be part of
this development. There are opportunities for them but to seize these, they need
to get educated."

Vastanvi, a tech savvy cleric who is director of more than 10 schools and 14
colleges with headquarters in Akkalkuwa village in Nandurbar, was appointed new
Mohatmim earlier this month. Vastanavi won the election to the post which was
occupied by the previous maulana, Marghoob ur Rehman, for 30 years till his
recent death.

Known for his extensive network of madrasas in western India and a member of the
Maharashtra Waqf Board and the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, the maulana
has bagged 2 awards, including the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Award from the
Maharashtra government.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              857 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 27, 2006, Wednesday
                              North Wales Edition

WALES: Students trace the true story behind soldiers' fatal riots;
How many died of flu, and how many were shot?

BYLINE: ROLAND HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words


THE LITTLE-KNOWN story of how 86 Canadians came to be buried in a North Wales
graveyard is to be painstakingly chronicled by schoolchildren.

Thousands of Canadian soldiers were stationed at the Kinmel army camp in
Bodelwyddan waiting to go home after the First World War.

However, the Canadians, mainly soldiers, died either from disease or during
riots among soldiers in 1919.

All are buried in Bodelwyddan, but little is known of who the influenza and riot
victims actually were.

Now a group of Rhyl GCSE pupils have enlisted the help of Canadian authorities
to track down the families of the victims, who are buried in the Marble Church's
graveyard.

It is hoped the detailed history of the Bodelwyddan deaths will eventually be
published.

The youngsters were given the unique opportunity to choose their own module in
their GCSE history studies, as long as it was of historical importance to their
region.

Teacher David Jennings said: "I grew up around here and the story always was,
and was peddled by coach drivers to tourists, that 86 soldiers were shot in
riots and buried in Bodelwyddan.

"There was a film on the Kinmel riots called Going Home a few years ago too,
that describes the riots as a bloody affair, and then showed all the
gravestones.

"But it is a really big mistake to think all these are riot victims - and one
which the kids have been investigating further."

Thousands of Canadian soldiers from different regiments, having fought in the
First World War, were stationed at the Kinmel Camp after the war ended.

They were made to wait for ships to take them back to Canada from Liverpool, but
endured a painful and lengthy wait in appalling conditions.

It emerged that soldiers released after the Bodelwyddan group were returning
home earlier, leading to tensions boiling over.

Riots erupted in March 1919, and five soldiers were shot dead. However, another
81 people based at the camp died from an outbreak of influenza, leading many to
believe all 86 died in the riots.

Rhyl High School is now waiting to hear whether it will be the first foreign
recipients of a Canadian grant to continue its work.

The pupils have also been in contact with official historical bodies in Canada
to help track down surviving relatives of the Kinmel Camp victims.

Mr Jennings said: "The pupils have all really taken to it. It's been fascinating
to learn some of the truths about what actually happened there.

"They've also been able to see what the conditions were like through the
trenches that are still at the camp, which are the best-preserved in the
country.

"It's a lot of work, but we're working hard just to find out the background of
these people. Their story is a fascinating one."

The group is also looking for sponsorship to continue the Bodelwyddan work.
Anyone who wishes to help should contact the school.

rolandhughes@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hanna Wilkins and Casey Cunn chat to Rhyl High School's head of history
David Jennings during a site visit to the World War I Canadian soldiers' graves
at the Marble Church, Bodelwyddan Pictures: JEFF PITT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              858 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Arthur Enterprise News

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Techno-vigilanteism not Canadian

BYLINE: Arthur Enterprise News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707  words


"If you feel so empty/So used up, so let down... Refusing to back down/You're
not the only one/So get up/Let's start a riot, a riot..." - Let's Start a Riot
by Three Days Grace.

The Canadian rock group, not exactly known for its positive, upbeat music, seems
to put in words a certain nihilist feeling embraced by a small minority of young
people.

There have always been idealistic, frustrated youth with a thirst for
excitement. They usually find it, too, and for the most part it is a good thing
they do. The ideals Canadians hold so dear - civil rights, equality, and
responsible government - were not dreamed up and fought for by sedate and
settled elders, but by young dreamers who refused to accept the status quo. The
only new element is when they start a riot these days, they are posting the
photos on Facebook.

Remove idealism from the equation, and all that remains is anarchy, or in the
case of the recent Vancouver hockey riot, a mob of drunken louts looting stores
and setting fire to police cruisers. The perpetrators were not trying to make a
political statement, or fighting for any lofty cause. In fact, most were not
even disgruntled hockey fans. They were just thieves and vandals.

Some came with a plan - that riot was about as spontaneous as a politician's
photo op. Some of the people milling around after the game joined the mayhem
while others took photos with their cell phone cameras. Sensible folk appear to
have left the area as fast as they could.

Had the riot occurred in a less technologically advanced age, all that would
remain at this point would be a few court appearances. But then, in a less
technologically advanced age, the riot might not have occurred. Someone may have
taken a swing at a Bruins fan who got a bit lippy or celebrated too openly. That
perpetrator may have been charged. That would have been the extent of it.

Enter the cell phone camera, Facebook and Twitter. Some of the louts are alleged
to have used social media to plan the riot, showing up with tools to start fires
and smash windows. The speed at which the violence and looting erupted speaks
volumes, and it was recorded by a veritable army of observers with cameras. But
what happened after the riot is where social media took off the gloves.

Everyone seems to be getting into the act of punishing the rioters. Police are
having a field day sifting through thousands of images people recorded during
the riot and handed over to them as any good citizen should, and even some
Facebook postings. Some rioters have been identified and charged. Others have
been shamed into turning themselves in - photos posted on Facebook, accompanied
by threats, have proved to be a powerful force. But is it a force for good or
evil?

To our credit as Canadians, many of us are asking that particular question. No
one has a problem with police asking the public for help, and using the photos
to help build a case. But we find something profoundly disturbing about people
being charged, found guilty and punished by anyone with a website, blog or
Facebook account, and a taste for vigilante justice.

Putting people in stocks in the village square, tattooing "thief" or whatever on
their foreheads, and other forms of public shaming were replaced a long time ago
by due process of law, for a million excellent reasons.

A photo of a grinning person near an overturned police car does nothing other
than show someone being stupid in the vicinity of a crime scene, not an
indictable offence. If the police determine it is evidence of a crime, and if
the courts determine a particular person and not a look-alike is guilty, then by
all means let the courts impose an appropriate punishment. Posting that photo on
Facebook along with name, address, scathing denunciations and suggestions he be
horsewhipped, in essence gives a life sentence to someone who might not be
guilty. People have been hounded to suicide with less.

Canada Day is almost here. We need to celebrate the fact we live in a country
where people have rights, not a totalitarian state where neighbours spy on
neighbours and everyone walks around in fear of being denounced. We need to
protect those rights. And the techno-vigilantes need to holster their weapons.

Guest editorial by Pauline Kerr

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              860 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 27, 2013 Tuesday

Forged riot letter sends cops in tizzy

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 216 words


NEW DELHI: Miscreants created confusion after they sent a forged letter,
purportedly drafted by the deputy commissioner of police (northwest), to the
anti-riot cell seeking clarification about a report regarding verification of
deaths of seven people in the 1984 riots. The economic offences wing of Delhi
Police is probing the matter after registering a case of forgery and cheating,
an officer said.

The letter dated August 7 wasreceived by the cell on August 12. The letter
sought clarification about the genuineness of the anti-riot cell report that was
issued on October 25 regarding verification of deaths of seven people identified
as Harjinder Singh, Gurdial Singh, Gurcharan Kaur, Tajinder Singh, Jaspal Singh,
Parjinder Singh and Manjit Singh, who had allegedly died in the November 1984
riots.

It was also requested that the genuineness of the letter be brought to the
notice in the meeting fixed on August 13 as his office had received notice from
Tabish Sarosh (advocate) on behalf of one Satwant Kaur for payment of relief of
Rs 47,70,000.

While attending the meeting, the letter was shown to the undersigned by the SDM,
Rohini, and it was found forged after the diary dispatch numbers were checked.
The signatures were also found to have been forged.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              861 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                       May 15, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ABI Comment On Independent Review of Riot Damages Act

LENGTH: 233  words


New Delhi, May 15 -- Aidan Kerr, Head of Property at the Association of British
Insurers, said:

"Insurers reacted quickly to help customers recover from the 200 million insured
damage caused by the riots and have made payments towards all claims for
affected households and settled over 95% of business claims.



"The Riot Damages Act provides important compensation to the uninsured, however
the riots of 2011 highlighted the century old Act needs to be reformed for the
modern day, so we welcome the independent review. Those claiming under the Act
faced an overly bureaucratic process, inconsistent approach and unacceptable
delays.

"We need to see the Riot Damages Act modernised with a more streamlined and
standardised process to ensure those most vulnerable have the reassurance it
will help them in what is inevitably a distressing time."

The ABI is calling for:

* A uniform definition of what constitutes a 'riot' which is accepted by all
police authorities.

* A streamlined and standardised claims process for police authorities. The lack
of such an approach led to delays and confusion for victims as to what
information they need to provide.

* The time period for claims to be made should be extended from 14 to 90 days so
that those who suffered property damage have enough time to claim, especially as
in some cases there may be a delay in being able to access their property to
assess the damage.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              862 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Play about riots to tour schools

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159  words


A New show about last year's riots will be performed in Bristol schools next
week.

Polka Theatre will tour Sticks and Stones to Fairfield School and Bridge
Learning Campus on November 8 and 9.

Written by playwright Ali Taylor, the show broadcasts the views and opinions of
young people growing up in the UK today and was created using stories from those
involved with or affected by the riots.

Polka's artistic director, Jonathan Lloyd said: "In the many debates and
discussions following last summer's riots, the voices of children and young
people barely registered. We want to make them part of a bigger, national
conversation about what happened, and why."

In the months after the riots, Polka drew upon surveys by children's charity
Barnardo's that found that 49 per cent of 2,000 adults interviewed thought that
children in the UK were becoming feral. A report from the Riots, Communities and
Victims Panel found young people felt blamed for the riots.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2012 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              863 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday

TD Friends of the Environment Foundation donates $15,000 to help replant trees
damaged in riot

LENGTH: 250  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, July 02 -- TD Friends of the Environment Foundation today announced it
will contribute $15,000 to the City of Vancouver to replace and rehabilitate
trees damaged during the riots in downtown Vancouver earlier this week.

TD FEF makes this donation to support the City's clean-up efforts to restore the
downtown area to its pre-riot condition by replanting and replacing affected
trees.

"We were very concerned about the damage incurred during the riot in Vancouver
on Wednesday night," said Mary Desjardins, Executive Director, TD Friends of the
Environment Foundation. "We were inspired by the citizens who attempted to
protect their city during the riot. Our contribution is part of the city's
clean-up efforts, and will help replace planters and trees that were damaged or
set alight."

The riot on Wednesday night touched many businesses in the downtown core,
including TD. Several windows had to be replaced at the TD Canada Trust location
at 700 West Georgia Street. The branch has now reopened and full services are
available.

"We'd like to thank our customers for their support and understanding during the
repair process," said Barb Stangoe, Branch Manager, TD Canada Trust. "We look
forward to welcoming our customers back to the branch, as the city attempts to
return to business as usual. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              864 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday

India: Cong likens Maya to Nero, wants judicial inquiry into Bareilly riots

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 17 -- The Congress on Tuesday accused UP Chief Minister
Mayawati of failing to control communal riots in Bareilly and likened her to
Roman emperor Nero."What kind of a government is this? Bareilly is burning and
there is celebration in Lucknow," Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said and
demanded a judicial enquiry into the riots by a sitting judge of the Allahabd
High Court.He claimed that the way communal divide was allowed to increase in
Bareilly and the riots were not stopped clearly suggests that there was "an
attempt to polarise the people" in UP.The spokesman said that the BJP joining
hands with the BSP was visible in the last Lok Sabha elections and that the
saffron party had taught BSP "the politics of riots"."The Nero sitting in UP has
a big role.

Without administrative support, no riot can continue for two weeks. Gujarat is
an example. The results were disastrous for the country," he said, likening
Mayawati to the Roman emperor infamous for his cruelty and
extravagance.Referring to the speech of Mayawati at a BSP rally in Lucknow
yesterday, Tewari said she was teaching history in her speech but if she learns
her lessons well, UP will benefit."She says no law stops her from building her
statues. Law does not stop anybody from doing such things - tradition and
decorum does. Those who do not understand it are consigned to the dustbins of
history," he said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak
Banker. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              865 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Turkish daily says PM has 800 riot police tasked for personal protection

LENGTH: 534 words


Text of article by Savas Akin headlined "Prime minister fine tuning for riot
police!", published by Turkish newspaper Star website on 29 July; subheadings as
published

The Close Protection Branch is planning new measures in response to an increase
in tip-offs about attempts on Erdogan's life, and has asked the Riot Police for
800 officers. The Riot Police turned down this request saying that with only
3,500 officers they would not have sufficient numbers to intervene in incidents.
The crisis was resolved by reassigning some senior police officers.

A new measure has been added to security measures that have already been stepped
up in response to an increase in tip-offs about attempts on the life of Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Last week a system was installed on the vehicles
providing protection for Prime Minister Erdogan that has a 360-degree field of
image and can scan buildings, license plates and faces along the prime
minister's route enabling suspicious activity to be dealt with. This has been
followed by a shake-up of the Istanbul Police HQ relating to work on protecting
the prime minister.

They will protect only the prime minister

A new plan was developed by the Branch for Close Protection of Senior State
Officials with the idea of increasing protection for Prime Minister, who makes
frequent trips to Istanbul for contacts. Accordingly, 800 police officers from
the Istanbul Riot Police Force have been tasked with protecting the prime
minister and providing security for the locations to be visited by the prime
minister during his trips to Istanbul. Police officers from the Riot Squad are
already assigned to the prime minister's Istanbul programmes, but with this new
arrangement the only task for the 800 riot police officers to be chosen will be
to undertake security arrangements during the prime minister's trips to
Istanbul.

Crisis within the police

The fact that the police officers demanded of the Istanbul Riot Squad Force by
the Branch for Close Protection of Senior State Officials will only be assigned
to Prime Minister Erdogan's programmes and will not be assigned to cover other
social incidents created a crisis within the Istanbul Police HQ. Officials with
the Riot Squad, which has only 3,500 officers in Istanbul, objected to this
request at first. Riot Squad chiefs expressed concern that they would be
understaffed anyway bearing in mind that the soccer season opens in a few weeks
and their officers will have to police soccer matches; that plus the scheduled
referendum. They rejected the request made by the Branch for the Close
Protection of Senior State Officials. However, it has been alleged that the
defiant Riot Forces senior officers were reassigned and that the decision was
then implemented.

Leads to string pulling

Furthermore, some officials are saying that the practice of not giving other
assignments to those Riot Police officer assigned especially to protect the
prime minister will lead to discrimination within the police in the future and
reinforce string pulling within the force. Reportedly, a solution is being
sought within the Istanbul Police Force for this new arrangement.

Source: Star website, Istanbul, in Turkish 29 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              866 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

2002 Gujarat Riots: State's job to repair masjids, Centre to SC

BYLINE: utkarsh anand

LENGTH: 449  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


When Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, the state government had
appealed against a high court order, directing it to repair and restore mosques,
dargahs and other religious sites damaged in the 2002 post-Godhra riots.

Now, when he is the Prime Minister, the central government has told the Supreme
Court that it has no obligation regarding restoration of religious places
damaged in the communal riots and that the accountability has to be fixed with
the state government. In its first affidavit into the matter, the Centre has
said: "It is primarily the responsibility of the state government to maintain
law and order in the state and to provide security, relief, rehabilitation and
to compensate riot victims."

Putting the onus on the Gujarat government, the Ministry of Home Affairs has
said that the 'public order' and 'police' are state subjects and hence the state
government was answerable to the queries of the top court regarding repairs and
restoration of mosques, dargahs, graveyards, khankahs and other religious sites.
"The central government, however, has provided ex-gratia to the victims of
Gujarat riots in cases of death, injury and damages to residential and uninsured
commercial properties, on the pattern of the package announced for the victims
of anti-Sikh riots of 1984," it stated.

The Home Ministry added that the report of the National Human Rights Commission
(NHRC) on the post-Godhra riots was forwarded to the Gujarat Chief Secretary for
taking necessary action after placing it in the state legislature. "Hence, the
main contesting respondent is the state of Gujarat," it said.

The affidavit has been filed by the Ministry in the appeal by Gujarat government
against the 2012 High Court order, directing it to repair religious places
damaged in the post-Godhra riots. While pulling up the state government for its
"inaction and negligence" during the riots, the high court had also ordered
compensation for over 500 places of worships in the state on a PIL by Islamic
Relief Committee of Gujarat, an NGO.

After the high court had criticised the state government for not tabling the
NHRC report within six months of it being prepared, the 2002-03 report was
tabled in Gujarat assembly in March 2012, nearly 10 years after the subsequent
riots. In its report, the NHRC had censured the state.

In its earlier hearings, the apex court gave an option to the Gujarat government
for formulating a scheme for repairing religious places damaged during the riots
on the lines of its earlier order where it had asked the Odisha government to
formulate a scheme for repairing churches damaged during the 2009 Kandhamal
riots.

The  case will be heard next on August 19.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              868 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Great Barr Observer

                                January 13, 2012

£11m given to police after 2011 street riots

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 210  words


Police dealing with the August riots in Birmingham have been promised £11.2
million from the Government to cover additional costs and pay-outs which
resulted from the disorder.

A grant will be paid by the Home Office to help pay for claims under the Riot
Damages Act, which are expected to exceed £5.2   million.

The Special Grant also   covers 85 per cent of the   operational costs of
policing the riots which exceeded £7   million.

The August riots which   started in Tottenham on   Saturday, August 6 spread to
Birmingham continuing for three nights, including a raid on the One Stop
Shopping Centre in Perry Barr.

Bishop Derek Webley, chair of the West Midlands Police Authority, said: "In view
of the financial challenges facing the Police Authority at this time, we are
delighted that the Home Office has decided to award us this Special Grant
money."

Chair of the police  authority's Finance and Resources Committee, councillor Bob
Jones, said: "I am very pleased that this settlement addresses our concern about
the   additional burden, from the costs of the disorder, on the local policing
budget."

The force will still have   to pay 15 per cent of the   policing costs, with the
additional £1.05 million being "considered for support" later this year.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 231


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              869 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                               February 19, 2003

AN OFFICIAL SECRET

SECTION: News; Other; Prisons; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words


An official inquiry into last year's riot at Lincoln Prison will not be made
public, it was revealed today.  Investigators have spent the last three months
trying to discover why, and how, the riot happened.

During an eight-hour period, more than 150 inmates went on a rampage starting
fires, raiding the pharmacy and assaulting a prison officer.

But the Prison Service report into the causes and implications of the riot is to
remain secret.

During the riot, on Wednesday and Thursday, October 23 and 24, the Greetwell
Road prison's A wing was almost destroyed. B and C wings were also damaged.

Ongoing repairs to the prison are estimated to cost in the region of GBP
500,000.

A spokesman for the Prison Service, speaking on behalf of governor of Lincoln
Prison Jackie Tilley, said it was standard practice to carry out an internal
inquiry into such disturbances.

He said: "The inquiry is to do with the workings, the procedures and the
security of the prison and as such it is an internal inquiry.

"There is no precedent for such inquiries to be made public. We want to find out
what happened so that we can prevent a similar incident occurring in the
future." It is not known when the inquiry will finish, or its cost.

The riot started when an inmate attacked a prison officer at about 8pm on the
first day.

During and in the immediate aftermath of the riot 31 prisoners required hospital
treatment.

More than 200 police officers were called to surround the prison and control was
regained at about 4.20am on the second day.

People living around the prison said they wanted to know the conclusions of the
inquiry.

Diane Perry, from Greetwell Place, said the night of the riots was "very
disturbed".

She said: " We knew it was a major incident but we didn't know what was
happening exactly." Mrs Perry said she wanted to find out why the riot had
occurred.

She said: "I think a lot of people are interested in what the report will say -
after all it is taxpayers' money which is paying for it." On Thursday, October
24, the vice-president of the Prison Officers Association, Steve Gillan, said
overcrowding in the prison and shortage of staff were factors in the riot.

At the time of the riot, there were 20 officers guarding 570 inmates at the
prison.

But at the same press conference, director general of the prison service Martin
Narey said that though the prison was overcrowded, this was not a cause of the
riot.

He said the prisoners had executed a carefully planned take over.

Kate McFarlane, from Queensway, off Greetwell Road, said it was important for
society to learn lessons from the riot.

She said: "I can fully understand why parts of the report would not be made
available to the public for security reasons.

"But the riot has raised issues that the public needs to know about. We need to
know how our prisons are being run and we need to know how prisoners are
treated.

"If overcrowding or procedures within the prison were factors we need to know
about them." If you would like to see the report made public, write to The
Secretariat, HM Prison Service Headquarters, Cleland House, Page Street, London,
SW1P 4LN.

Or write to the Echo at Your View at Lincolnshire Echo, Brayford Wharf East,
Lincoln LN5 7AT.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo


                              870 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                            September 2, 2016 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Kids jail rampage;
 Stun grenades used to end rampage

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 354  words


Stun grenades and pepper spray were used to end a riot at Banksia Hill Detention
Centre yesterday after detainees smashed windows and ripped doors from cupboards
to use as weapons.

It was the second riot at the centre in four days.

Special Operations Group officers were used to end both riots.

The Community and Public Sector Union released a statement saying the riots had
caused about $250,000 damage.

It said staff believed yesterday's riot was planned and wanted harsher penalties
for disruptive behaviour.

The centre was in lockdown from 12.55pm to 2.30pm, the union said.

Four detainees, aged 17 and 18, barricaded themselves in D-Wing in Urquhart Unit
using a table tennis table and chairs.

They ripped doors from cupboards, an oven and a fridge and used them as
improvised weapons.

"There were no significant injuries during the incident but there has been major
property damage," the union said.

"All windows in the unit have been smashed, cupboards pulled off the hinges, and
the fridge and oven doors pulled off.

"The detainees used these items as projectiles against staff. The damage is
estimated at $150,000 and the wing is now uninhabitable."

A Department of Correctives Services spokesman confirmed the youths had
barricaded themselves inside a wing and sourced "makeshift weapons".

He said they also had access to hot water which could have been used against
staff or themselves.

Officers used a one-second burst of pepper spray and "pyrotechnic distraction
devices" to quell the riot, he said.

The riot followed a similar incident in Harding Wing on Monday when three other
detainees caused about $100,000 damage, according to the union.

Police are investigating.

Security at the Canning Vale centre - the State's only juvenile detention centre
- was increased after a riot in January 2013 when more than 100 cells were
trashed.

The riot cost the State Government about $3.6m.

Police officers, a canine unit and the police helicopter were called in to
restore order.

In the wake of the 2013 riot, the centre's male detainees were transferred to
Hakea Prison.

Thirty juveniles and five adults were charged with criminal damage.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              871 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   News Point

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday

1984 anti-Sikh riots: Verdict on Jagdish Tytler today

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: India


India, April 10 -- A Delhi court on Wednesday is expected to decide whether or
not to re-open a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case against Congress leader Jagdish
Tytler.

Earlier, in a reprieve to Jagdish Tytler, a Delhi court had let off him in a
1984 anti-Sikh riots case after accepting CBI's closure report giving clean chit
to him.

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also had earlier given a clean chit to
Tytler in 2007 and in 2009 claiming there was no evidence against him.

However, challenging the closure report filed by the CBI in 2009, Lakhwinder
Kaur, whose husband was killed in the riots, argued that the investigating
agency had not recorded the testimonies of two key eyewitnesses who have since
the riots moved to the United States.

During the arguments on April 4, the CBI prosecutor had sought the dismissal of
the plea filed by the victim saying the probe has made it clear that Tytler was
not present on November 1, 1984 at Gurudwara Pulbangash in North Delhi where
three people were killed during the riots.

The prosecutor said at the time of the incident, Tytler was at Teen Murti
Bhawan, the residence of the then late prime minister Indira Gandhi.

Tytler was among the three prominent leaders named in the reports on anti-Sikh
riots. Two other leaders named were Sajjan Kumar and the late HKL Bhagat.

The 1984 anti-Sikh riots, which claimed the lives of almost 3000 Sikhs, were
triggered by the assassination of Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by two of
her Sikh bodyguards. Published by HT Syndication with permission from News
Point. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                          Copyright 2013 NewsPoint TV
                              All Rights Reserved


                              872 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Two more charged in riots

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 254  words

DATELINE: Vancouver


Two more accused Stanley Cup rioters made brief court appearances Friday
afternoon.

A lawyer for Anthony Larsen, 18, of Surrey, appeared in Vancouver provincial
court to answer to charges of break-and-enter and participating in a riot. The
case was put over to March 12.

A lawyer for Matthew Lennox, 24, appeared as well. He, too, is charged with
break and enter and participating in a riot.

Lennox is now scheduled for an arraignment March 9.

So far, the Integrated Riot Investigation Team has recommended 280 charges to
Crown against 100 suspected rioters.

A special team of Crown prosecutors has approved 116 criminal charges against 43
suspected rioters.

Last week, Vancouver police launched a new website and posted 251 new pictures
of riot suspects.

A police spokesman said within 24 hours of the web launch, more than 75 tips had
been received.

Police are also seeking six suspects wanted in the beating of Good Samaritan
Robert Mackay on the night of the riot, June 15, 2011. He tried to fend off
people looting The Bay department store and was pulled to the ground by a crowd
that kicked and hit him, then doused him with pepper spray.

He has since recovered from the injuries. The suspects in the Mackay assault are
all listed on the new website.

Vancouver police continue to investigate the riot, which turned the streets of
downtown Vancouver bedlam as drunken hockey fans went on a rampage after the
Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup final to the Boston Bruins. Hundreds more
charges are expected in the upcoming months.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News; Robert Mackay: beaten during the Stanley Cup riots in
June.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              873 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             August 31, 2012 Friday

Embers will singe

BYLINE: Shivanand Tiwari

LENGTH: 795  words


The Naroda Patiya verdict convicting 32 people, including former Gujarat
minister and sitting BJP MLA Maya Kodnani and Bajrang Dal activist Babu
Bajrangi, is both welcome and significant. Images from the Naroda Patiya riots -
the murder of about 95 Muslims, a pregnant woman's stomach cut open most
brutally before she was set on fire - are still fresh a decade later. And so are
the wounds.

Had the verdict gone the other way, it would not have been good for the nation
as it could have dented the faith of minority communities in our judicial
system. After all, what took place in Gujarat in 2002 has deeply affected them.
The verdict has done them a world of good; it has restored the confidence of
minority communities - especially Muslims, in Gujarat and elsewhere.

I was dismayed to see a Gujarat BJP spokesperson trying to defend party MLA
Kodnani by saying that she was not a minister during the Naroda Patiya riot. I
want to know how Kodnani - a prime accused in one of the worst cases of the
Gujarat riots - was made a minister in the first place. The state government,
which elevated Kodnani to minister, has a lot of explaining to do.

I believe that it is very much within the capacity of an administration to
contain a riot. I remember a riot in Ranchi in 1970. I saw from close quarters
how a riot could be reined in. Having learnt that a group of people was involved
in fomenting anger, the administration got cracking and controlled the situation
in a matter of days. If a government is firm on dealing with riots, it will
surely do so rather than put the blame on the situation or on sundry extraneous
factors.

One must not read too much into the timing of the verdict, with the BJP and the
Congress engaged in a slugfest over the issue of corruption. It is only part of
the judicial process. But the verdict will surely hurt the Gujarat government,
especially as it pertains to the involvement of a former minister and Babu
Bajrangi, who had bragged about his role during the riots and of the moral
policing he did in Ahmedabad. The verdict leaves a serious poser for the
political administration in Gujarat and the party currently in power. The
conviction of a legislator in a Gujarat riot case can have political
implications.

The JD(U), however, does not look at the Naroda Patiya verdict in the context of
the present debate on Narendra Modi versus Rahul Gandhi. It is not up to the
party to make any political forecast from this. The JD(U) is not sure or
bothered about how the Naroda Patiya verdict can affect an individual in his
pan-national scheme of things or benefit rival political camps.

The verdict will also have little bearing on the JD(U)'s alliance with the BJP.
Let me make it amply clear that our alliance is Bihar-specific. The party has
put up a token fight against the BJP in some states, including Gujarat, in the
past and may do so in the future. Our candidates recently fought against each
other in Uttar Pradesh as well. We have a history of issue-based alliance with
the BJP. As part of Rammanohar Lohia's Socialist Party, we were with the Jan
Sangh in the anti-Congress fight in several states in 1967. We worked together
during the JP movement as well. There is no problem with our alliance right now,
as the prime focus is still on building Bihar so that the state can completely
shrug off the tag of Lalu Prasad's jungle raj.

Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been categorical about the JD(U)'s stand
on the NDA's prime ministerial candidate - someone who has a clean and secular
image. Although the JD(U) firmly holds that Nitish Kumar is prime minister
material, he has made it clear that he is not in the race for the top post, and
that the largest party in the alliance alone would take the call on the PM
nominee for the 2014 elections.

Recently, there have been questions about the JD(U) distancing itself from the
BJP and getting closer to the Congress. We have always been very critical of the
UPA's policies, both inside and outside Parliament, and hold that the UPA does
not stand to gain from the possible projection of Rahul Gandhi as its prime
ministerial candidate. Rahul proved to be a damp squib in the recent UP
elections. His leadership qualities are being overhyped by the Congress.
Priyanka Gandhi too could cut no ice with the electorate in Rae Bareli and
Amethi, and the party could win only two of ten assembly seats despite her
sustained campaign. Those who speculate on the JD(U) maintaining an equal
distance from the BJP and the Congress before going to the 2014 elections could
be jumping the gun.

In the meantime, we must hail the Naroda Patiya verdict for reinstating our
faith in the rule of law.

The writer is a JD(U) MP in Rajya Sabha and the party's national spokesperson,
express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              874 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

Society: The unheard voices of the riots: An Oxford law graduate arrested in the
summer of 2011 has made a film that gives protesters a say

BYLINE: Mary O'Hara

SECTION: GUARDIAN SOCIETY PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 845 words


Salim Ormanli speaks calmly andquietly to the camera: "I was thinking, shit,
man, I just want to wake up. I hope this is a dream. I hope I got hit on the
head or something in the riots . . . But it was real." The 23-year-old
Londoner's candid account of the shock and hardship of being in prison following
the summer riots of 2011 is one of many that have emerged in the wake of the
unrest that spread across the country a year and a half ago.

This time the interview is unusual because it is for a documentary made by a
fellow arrestee, Fahim Alam (pictured below), who spent six weeks in prison on
remand and a further six months on an electronic tag after being wrongly accused
by police of hurling bricks at them during rioting in east London.

Alam interviewed Ormanli along with activists, academics, poets, youth workers,
lawyers and people arrested and convicted during other riots for his first
documentary, Riots Reframed. The film is a scathing and uncompromising
dissection of the society that spawned the unrest, which premieres on 16 March
in London. It is, according to its 27-year-old producer and director, an attempt
to challenge politicians' and mainstream media's superficial depictions of the
riots as nothing more than the product of "mindless criminals", and to provide a
platform for more informed discussion.

"Whether they're a professor or an activist or a poet or whoever, through their
voices, they paint a different picture," he says of the people in the
documentary. "The thing that unites them is that in some way they resist the
dominant narrative." Alam is a law graduate from the University of Oxford with a
master's degree from the London School of Economics, who, two months before his
arrest, was heralded in this newspaper as a shining example of a young person
who beat the odds to make it from a disadvantaged background to two of the
world's top universities. Alam's story before the riots is remarkable. That he
went in a single day from being a symbol of aspiration and achievement to being
gratuitously splashed across the nation's media for a crime, of which a jury
would take under half an hour to clear him, makes it all the more poignant.
Being dragged into a police van simply because he was where riots were taking
place (he was on his way to visit his grandparents in Hackney), being denied
bail, going through the specially convened "riot courts" at 3am, and then
spending weeks in prison "not knowing" if and when he'd be released was
profound, Alam says.

He describes jail as "a very sharp and sudden shock", but he has since tried to
make sense of the backdrop to the riots. "I now know that the riots aren't just
about the riots," he says. "The riots are about everything else. The riots are
about society and the system we live under. So, really, this film is . . . about
everything else the riots have touched. It highlights so many aspects of the
system we live under - prison or poverty. Or whether it's war or rebellion or
the police - it opens up so many conversations."

Reframing the Riots is self-funded. Alam set up a company, VoiceOver, to make
it. And it deliberately does not provide a balanced analysis. "The politicians,
police and other authority figures get enough space and propaganda to air their
views in the mainstream media," Alam says.

The documentary presents views and insights on an array of complex and
interwoven subjects such as unemployment, poverty, racism and even corporate tax
avoidance. Almost everyone interviewed warns of more social unrest.

Alam's lawyer Imran Khan has represented the family of Stephen Lawrence and was
involved in the appeals process after the Bradford riots of 2001. He says he
hopes the documentary helps inform a wider discussion on the political and legal
responses to rioting. "You can give whatever sentences you want, it's still
going to happen. Riots (and) disorder are organic processes which take place
because of what people feel at the time," says Khan. "You know what? If it can
happen to (Fahim) it can happen to any of us. The fact that he is doing the
documentary? He is continuing the great tradition which is saying 'It's not
about me, it's about how it affects everybody else.'"

Kahn and Alam have launched a formal complaint against the police for Alam's
arrest, but, while a resolution on this could take years, his immediate plans
are to take the documentary "as far and wide as it can go". He has screenings
lined up in the US, but there are hopes of sparking debate at home too.

Alam is keen to emphasise the "positive" fallout of the riots. For example, he
points out that, in the aftermath, some people began "talking about a section of
the population that for years had been ignored" helping to "strip away the veil
of normality" that concealed entrenched social despair.

"Sometimes there are deep and profound opportunities within the biggest
injustices and if we can use these things to (speak to) power then we should."

Captions:

Many young Londoners were imprisoned following the outbreak in August 2011
Photograph: John Cantlie/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              875 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                Final C Edition

Perspective needed on the hockey riot; Yes, it was bad, but there's no reason to
believe Vancouver has become a worse place than it was the day before

BYLINE: Stephen Hume, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Stephen Hume; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 617  words


Oh, Lord, will this inflated anguish over the hockey riot never subside?

Look, the riot was bad. People were hurt. Nobody deserves that. No intelligent
person excuses the participants. Looters, vandals, people who committed violent
assaults should be punished as - and when - they are found guilty in a court of
law. Yes, let's examine our response procedures. Until then can we just stop
fulminating about it?

Let's have some perspective here.

We're told 60 businesses were affected by the riot. Damage estimates range from
$1 million to $5 million.

In the month elapsed since the riot, 155 businesses and 199 residences in
Vancouver have been subjected to property crimes of varying severity ranging
from break-ins to major vandalism. There have been more than 50 cases of arson.

It's reported that 15 vehicles were destroyed during the riot at a cost of about
$500,000 to ICBC for insurance claims.

In the month since the riot, at least 100 cars have been wrecked in motor
vehicle accidents, many because a driver was at fault, and 129 vehicles have
been stolen outright, some recovered, no doubt, but some either wrecked or never
to be seen again. Even if the stolen cars were all wellused Dodge Neons, which
is doubtful, the cost will run somewhere about $775,000 at a minimum.

Top estimate for damage in the riot is $5 million. Payouts by ICBC for damage to
people and property by motor vehicles over the past two years tops $5 billion.

Estimates for injuries in the riot, some of them serious, run from 57 to more
than 200. Nobody diminishes injuries. But last year alone, more than 13,000
people were injured in Vancouver in motor vehicle accidents and since 2002,
almost 200 people have been killed. For the region in 2010, it was 97,220
accidents injuring 28,700 people.

In the month elapsed since the riot, there have been about 500 criminal assaults
in Vancouver. There have been 40 sexual assaults. Not counting the vehicular
mayhem, that's about 18 violent acts against individuals per day.

Vancouver police department statistics show that in the realm of sexual
assaults, attacks by strangers were up 16 per cent in 2010, incidents of
groping, grabbing and unwanted kissing were up 24 per cent. The central business
district was where the preponderance of these incidents occurred.

Proportional to this bigger picture, the actual consequences of the riot start
to look somewhat less significant.

In the last decade, 24,238 Vancouver businesses have been victimized by property
crime. More than 4,500 people in Vancouver, the vast majority of them women,
have been sexually assaulted. More than 42,000 incidents of violent assault have
been recorded. More than 150 have been murdered. More than 160 have been victims
of attempted murder.

Frankly, we'd have to endure a hockey riot every month for a decade to match
those totals.

None of this is to point fingers at the Vancouver police department. Our police
seem to be doing a commendable job in difficult circumstances. And, if you ask
me, they did a good job on the day of the hockey riot, quite properly reading a
fast-developing situation and making their priority not protection of property
but the safety of people - even the idiots who were rioting. I think their
strategic restraint prevented things from becoming a lot worse than they might
have.

But our purveyors of hot air should put these events in context. Nobody thought
on the day before the riot that Vancouver belonged in the realm of the Road
Warrior. It doesn't. Vancouver is still a remarkably tranquil and polite place
as big cities go. It is silly to think that what happened after the hockey game
indicates it's become a worse place than it was a day earlier.

shume@islandnet.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arlen Redekop,  PNG Files; The outcome of Stanley Cup riot looks
insignificant in proportion to the bigger crime picture in Vancouver.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              876 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday

Race Riot commemorations planned throughout summer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 832 words


Below is a list of 1908 Springfield Race Riot commemoration events. The events
are free unless otherwise noted. For more events, visit
www.visit-springfieldillinois.com and www.sj-r.com/raceriot.

June 7

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: International House of Prayer.

* INFO: Call 528-9780 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

June 14 to Oct. 25

* WHAT: "Something So Horrible" exhibit.

* WHERE: Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library.

* INFO: Call 558-8934 or visit www.alplm.org.

June 21-22

* WHAT: Juneteenth Celebration. Juneteenth celebrates the end of slavery in the
U.S.

* WHEN: 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

* WHERE: Comer Cox Park.

* INFO: Call 502-3701.

July 1-Aug. 31

* WHAT: Oral history of 1908 Race Riot. A "listening station" presenting oral
history of the race riot, sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library
and Museum.

* INFO: Call 558-8875 or visit www.alplm.org.

July 5

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: First Christian Church.

* INFO: Call 528-3407 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

Aug. 1-31

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit. Ask for a free copy of a
bibliography about the riot.

* WHERE: Illinois State Library, Author's Room.

* INFO: Call 558-2065.

Aug. 1-31

* WHAT: Sangamon County Collection Resources. A collection of historical
resources will be on display.

* WHERE: Lincoln Library of Springfield.

Aug. 1-Nov. 30

* WHAT: University of Illinois at Springfield 1908 Centennial campus events
(various).

* INFO: Call 206-7548 or visit www.1908raceriot.uis.edu/Site/Welcome.html.

Aug. 2

* WHAT: Solemn Assembly Race Riot Prayer Gathering. Prayers for reconciliation,
music and a brief presentation about the riot. A walk to a nearby race riot
marker follows the service.

* WHEN: 11 a.m.

* WHERE: Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception.

* INFO: Call 522-3342 or visit www.springfieldreconciliation.org.

Aug. 14

* WHAT: National members of the NAACP will gather for a ceremony at the Old
State Capitol. Plans still in the works.

Aug. 15

* WHAT: Two exhibits explore the 1908 Springfield Race Riot and related themes,
one through art honoring victims of the riot and the other through the
examination of genetics and race.

* WHERE: Illinois State Museum

* INFO: Call 524-5744 or visit www.museum.state.il.us.

Aug. 16

* WHAT: "The Story of Something So Horrible." A daylong forum with lecturers,
breakout sessions and a guided tour of the library's race-riot exhibit by
curator Dr. Carole Merritt. Reservations required. Lunch included.

* WHERE: Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library.

* INFO: Call 558-8934 or visit www.alplm.org.

Aug. 27, 1 p.m.

* WHAT: Riot presentation by Springfield city historian Curtis Mann. An
exploration of the riot, what preceded it and what followed afterward.

* WHERE: Illinois State Library.

* INFO: Call 558-2065.

Sept. 1-30

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit. SCI also will sponsor a visit
from Springfield Race Riot scholar Roberta Senechal. Date and time to be
announced.

* WHERE: Springfield College in Illinois-Benedictine University.

* INFO: Call 525-1420 or visit www.sci.edu.

Sept. 1-30

* WHAT: "The Summer of Hate" traveling exhibit.

* WHERE: Rochester Public Library.

* INFO: Call 498-8454.

Sept. 13

* WHAT: Family-centered event exploring issues relating to the riot.

* WHERE: Illinois State Museum.

* WHEN: Time and other details to be determined.

* INFO: Call 782-6044 or visit www.museum.state.il.us.

Sept. 23, 1 p.m.

* WHAT: Topics to Chew On Program. Riot presentation by Springfield city
historian Curtis Mann. Registration required by Sept. 19. A donation for lunch
is requested.

* WHERE: Rochester Public Library.

* INFO: Call 498-8454.

Oct. 5, 4 p.m.

* WHAT: Oak Ridge Cemetery Walk. Actors portraying historical figures from the
riot tour related grave sites. Presented by the Sangamon County Historical
Society and Oak Ridge Cemetery. Donations accepted.

* WHERE: Oak Ridge Cemetery.

* INFO: Call 789-2340 or visit www.sancohis.org.

Oct. 10

* WHAT: 72nd annual NAACP Illinois State Conference. Keynote speaker Morris
Dees, Southern Poverty Law Center, sponsored by the Abraham Lincoln Presidential
Library and Museum and the Springfield branch of the NAACP, in conjunction with
the NAACP's State Conference.

* WHEN: 7 p.m.

* WHERE: President Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center.

* INFO: Call 544-8800.

Oct. 10-12

* WHAT: 72nd annual NAACP Illinois State Conference. "Transformation of a
Nation: Commemorating Our Past, Celebrating Our Future: 100th Year Commemoration
of the 1908 Springfield, Ill Race Riots."

* WHERE: President Abraham Lincoln Hotel & Conference Center.

* INFO: Call 544-8800.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              877 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday
                                National Edition

Diary: Guy De Riot

BYLINE: Guy De Riot, National Post

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Pg. AL2

LENGTH: 253  words


This week's diarist is musician Guy De Riot, the singer of the English band The
Gin Riots. De Riot was in Toronto recently to perform at the North by Northeast
music festival. He kept his diary last week.

Thursday began as it was meant to go on; with a fair amount of gluttonous
behaviour.

We met up with our manager to sample the culinary delights of St. Lawrence
Market. We decided that we give an official "thumbs up" Gin Riots seal of
approval to the peameal bacon and cheddar sandwiches. We'd probably even go so
far as to say they were delectable.

Speaking of which, Jack and Cillian went to see the delightful Olenka & the
Autumn Lovers at C'est What and informed me that they were wholly mesmerized by
her charming blend of modern popular folk and traditional Polish rhythms.

Truly a firm favourite with those two and somebody to watch, no doubt.

Myself, Tim and our manager Sonja went to see Sloan at the Mod Club, a long-time
ambition of Tim's and a successfully executed operation.

Bizarrely, due to our collective ineptitude and the confusing nature of Toronto
to the intoxicated mind, we managed to completely lose one another.

Jack informs me that, due to it technically being Cillian's birthday at that
time and his genuine disgust at the milestone he'd passed, he took it upon
himself to explore previously uncharted realms of inebriation, resulting in
frantic searching, reluctant cab rides and late-night emotional bonding
sessions, before a well-deserved sleep.

Beautiful. - Tomorrow, a day at Rancho Relaxo.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: Glenn Lowson For National Post; (See hardcopy for Photo Description) ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              878 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2007 Friday

Russian Penal Service says mass riots caused by inmate transfer

LENGTH: 208 words


A riot in the Russian juvenile penal colony was caused by an inmate transfer,
head of the Russian Penal Service Yuriy Kalinin said, according to the RIA
Novosti news agency.

"Mass riots were caused by the fact that one of the leaders of a group of
teenagers was transferred to a detention centre for adults. Then his friends
organized the riots, which almost turned into a mass escape," Kalinin was quoted
as telling journalists at a news conference in Yekaterinburg on 19 October.

The riot broke out on 16 October in a juvenile penal colony in Sverdlovsk
Region, claiming three lives and leaving about 20 people injured.

Russian human rights ombudsman Vladimir Lukin thinks the incident is mainly
caused by "poor educational work" with juvenile delinquents. Frequent punishing
often turns Russian juvenile detention centers "into real prisons", NTV TV
station showed him saying at the same news conference.

The damage is estimated at R27-28m, or just over 1m dollars at the current rate
of exchange. However, final conclusions on the circumstances of the incident can
be made only after the end of the investigation, RIA Novosti quoted Kalinin as
saying.

Sources: RIA Novosti, Moscow, in Russian 0655 gmt 19 Oct 07;

NTV, Moscow, in Russian 0900 gmt 19 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              879 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday

14 sought for Phuket riot

LENGTH: 243  words


The Phuket Provincial Court has approved arrest warrants for another 14 people
suspected of taking part in a riot at Thalang district station in Phuket on Oct
10, Region 8 Provincial Police chief Thesa Siriwathon said yesterday.

Last Thursday, the court approved warrants for 33 suspects at the centre of the
riot, during which police vehicles and other state property were destroyed.
Several police were injured.

Pol Lt Gen Thesa said more warrants would be issued, based on images taken
during the riot.

None of those wanted under the earlier warrants had surrendered, but he believed
nobody had fled the country.

Phuket governor Chamroen Tippayapongthada said a committee comprising the
military, police and administrative officials would wrap up its investigation of
the riot within 30 days.

Deputy governor Chokdee Amornwat represents the provincial administration on the
committee, he said.

The riot was triggered by the deaths of two young men who were chased by police
after they sped past a checkpoint on Oct 10. The men died after the police
vehicle hit their motorcycle during the chase, running it off the road.

Police claimed they found 50 methamphetamine pills and nearly one kilogramme of
krathom leaves on their bodies.

Angry relatives and residents began to lay siege to the station that afternoon
and the number of protesters swelled that night when the crowd finally broke
into the station, destroyed state property, and set ablaze vehicles outside.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              880 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 11, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Maid's death sparks worst Iranian riots for six years

BYLINE: Hugh Tomlinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 389 words


The mysterious death of a hotel chambermaid in Iran's restive Kurdish region has
sparked anti-government riots and a police crackdown in some of the most violent
unrest in the country for years.

Protesters in the northwestern city of Mahabad hurled stones at the security
forces and set fire to the hotel where Farinaz Khosravani, 25, plunged to her
death from a balcony last week.

Allegations that the maid was fleeing the sexual advances of a state
intelligence officer brought 5,000 people on to the streets, according to
witnesses. Riot police responded with tear gas, birdshot and baton charges that
left dozens wounded. Reports that two people had been killed could not be
confirmed but residents claimed that up to 100 people had been arrested.

"The protests were completely spontaneous, people are furious," said Kaweh, a
lorry driver who watched the riots grow. "The riot police provoked the violence
by attacking the protesters and beating them up. As the police became more
violent, the response became more extreme."

Rioting began last week and continued into the weekend as news of Ms
Khosravani's death spread. Riot police had the city under control yesterday,
residents said, though sporadic clashes continued.

At their peak, the riots in Mahabad were some of the most violent in Iran since
the mass demonstrations that followed the disputed presidential election in
2009, when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was re-elected amid allegations of massive
vote-rigging.

Ms Khosravani's death has crystallised anger in the majority Kurdish city at
discrimination by the national government in Tehran. Mahabad is the provincial
capital of Iranian Kurdistan and the region harbours a strong separatist
movement.

Some residents pointed to a deeper schism in society, however. "This is not just
a Kurdish issue. Throughout the country there is suspicion of the government,"
Kaweh said. "There is one rule for the authorities and another for the people.
If an official goes to jail he is out in a day while peaceful protesters are
killed or locked up for years."

The circumstances behind Ms Khosravani's death remain disputed. Nader Molavi,
the manager of the Hotel Tara, since set ablaze by the protesters, said that
closed-cicuit television footage suggested that she had tried to climb from the
fourth-floor balcony to the level below but slipped.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              881 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 11, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Maid's death sparks worst Iranian riots for six years

BYLINE: Hugh Tomlinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 389 words


The mysterious death of a hotel chambermaid in Iran's restive Kurdish region has
sparked anti-government riots and a police crackdown in some of the most violent
unrest in the country for years.

Protesters in the northwestern city of Mahabad hurled stones at the security
forces and set fire to the hotel where Farinaz Khosravani, 25, plunged to her
death from a balcony last week.

Allegations that the maid was fleeing the sexual advances of a state
intelligence officer brought 5,000 people on to the streets, according to
witnesses. Riot police responded with tear gas, birdshot and baton charges that
left dozens wounded. Reports that two people had been killed could not be
confirmed but residents claimed that up to 100 people had been arrested.

"The protests were completely spontaneous, people are furious," said Kaweh, a
lorry driver who watched the riots grow. "The riot police provoked the violence
by attacking the protesters and beating them up. As the police became more
violent, the response became more extreme."

Rioting began last week and continued into the weekend as news of Ms
Khosravani's death spread. Riot police had the city under control yesterday,
residents said, though sporadic clashes continued.

At their peak, the riots in Mahabad were some of the most violent in Iran since
the mass demonstrations that followed the disputed presidential election in
2009, when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was re-elected amid allegations of massive
vote-rigging.

Ms Khosravani's death has crystallised anger in the majority Kurdish city at
discrimination by the national government in Tehran. Mahabad is the provincial
capital of Iranian Kurdistan and the region harbours a strong separatist
movement.

Some residents pointed to a deeper schism in society, however. "This is not just
a Kurdish issue. Throughout the country there is suspicion of the government,"
Kaweh said. "There is one rule for the authorities and another for the people.
If an official goes to jail he is out in a day while peaceful protesters are
killed or locked up for years."

The circumstances behind Ms Khosravani's death remain disputed. Nader Molavi,
the manager of the Hotel Tara, since set ablaze by the protesters, said that
closed-cicuit television footage suggested that she had tried to climb from the
fourth-floor balcony to the level below but slipped.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              884 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

                         Chikurubi riot death toll rises to 5 - NewsDay Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 385  words


THE death toll from the Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison riots that occurred
last Friday, has risen to five after two more prisoners succumbed to injuries at
Parirenyatwa Hospital yesterday.

BY STAFF REPORTERS

   Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) Deputy Commissioner-General
                                         Agrey Machingauta confirmed the deaths.
 Three prisoners died in a shootout with prison guards when the food riots broke
                                               out at the correctional facility.

      Meanwhile, opposition parties and civil society groups yesterday called on
government to urgently set up a parliamentary or judiciary inquiry into the riot
                                                                               .

          The prisoners' food riot was the first of its kind since the country's
                                                           independence in 1980.

 MDC-T spokesperson Obert Gutu said: "The MDC calls for the immediate setting-up
          of a Commission of Inquiry to look into conditions in the country's 46
    correctional facilities in general and the Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison
                       complex food riot of Friday, March 13 2015 in particular.

   "The Commission of Inquiry must be headed by a judge of the High Court or the
                                                                 Supreme Court."

 MDC Renewal Team spokesman Jacob Mafume said the government should urgently set
                                   up a commission to inquire into the incident.
  "There is need for an urgent judiciary inquiry on the Chikurubi incident as it
    makes a mockery of justice if prisoners are being sent to death camps in the
                                                  name of prisons," Mafume said.

 Harare West MP and chairperson of the Justice Portfolio Committee Jessie Majome
                               (MDC-T) said the incident deserves investigation.

  "We're meeting this afternoon and I'm sure we'll discuss the prison issue, but
            however, note that the committee works by resolutions," Majome said.

Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights (ZLHR) spokesperson Kumbirai Mafunda said: "We
hope that the State will take appropriate action to investigate the incident and
                                                      take corrective measures."

 Mafunda said ZLHR last year released a report that showed that all was not well
     in the country's prisons were some inmates spent more than a year on remand
                                                         before they were tried.

 "Overcrowding has made prisons a health hazard as the increase in the number of
       the prisoners created conditions favourable to the spread of communicable
     diseases. More than 100 prisoners died in Zimbabwe's prisons in 2013 due to
               malnutrition-related illnesses and natural causes," Mafunda said.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2015 NewsDay
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                              885 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

BJP Attacks Rahul Lock,Stock & Barrel

BYLINE: OUR POLITICAL BUREAU NEW DELHI

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 463 words



HIGHLIGHT: Saffron party maintains that Congress vice-president's comments are
steeped in 'ignorance' and 'falsehood',seeks apology


A day after Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Gujarat government
abetted the riots there in 2002,an angry BJP has said the Congress leader's
comments were steeped in "ignorance" and "falsehood".In a scathing attack on
Gandhi,BJP leader Arun Jaitley alleged that the Congress vice-president was
"ill-informed" on the Gujarat riots and said if Gandhi was a member of any other
political party he would still be struggling to become an office bearer.In his
first television interview to Times Now on Monday,Gandhi had alleged that while
during the 1984 riots in Delhi the government was trying to stop the riots,the
Gujarat government in 2002 was "actually abetting and pushing the riots
further".BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad has demanded an apology."He (Gandhi)
needs to take back his remarks.He must publicly express regret for making a
palpably wrong statement," Prasad said on Tuesday.Contesting Gandhi's
claims,Jaitley claimed in Gujarat in 2002 thousands of people were
arrested,police fired at several places,killing almost 300 rioters,thousands of
prosecutions were filed,and hundreds of people have been sentenced."Even the
chief minister (Narendra Modi) has gone through enquiries.What did they
(Congress) do in 1984," Jaitley said in a Facebook posting."Nowhere did the
police fire a single bullet to disperse mobs.Cases were not investigated.A
commission of inquiry was constituted,which came with a sham report," Jaitley
alleged.The judge who headed the commission subsequently became a Congress
member of the Rajya Sabha and that "justice evades the victims even now",he
added.In a point-by-point rebuttal of Gandhi's interview,Jaitley said that after
the Congress leader's interview the question that crossed his mind was,"What has
Rahul Gandhi to offer to this country... or,is he too confused to get into the
specifics and therefore goes into the generalities?"

Contesting Gandhi's claim that there was no participation of the state in the
1984 anti-Sikh riots in the aftermath of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's
assassination,Jaitley alleged that a slogan "Khoon ka Badla Khoon (blood for
blood)" started in the afternoon of October 31,1984,at the All India Institute
of Medical Sciences where Indira Gandhi was declared dead and that Congress
leaders were seen leading mobs that massacred Sikhs at thousands of
places.Prasad,meanwhile,drew a comparison between the background of Gandhi and
Modi,the BJP's prime ministerial candidate."In contrast to Rahul (whose father
Rajiv Gandhi,grandmother Indira Gandhi and great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru
have ruled the country),you have Modi who was born in poverty,who has come up
because of his hard work," he said.Gandhi in his interview had said he was
absolutely against the concept of dynasty.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              886 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Dal red light for Modi & Cong 'Enemy party' versus dost

BYLINE: J.P. YADAV

LENGTH: 639  words


New Delhi, April 13: The Janata Dal (United) today sought to recall the Gujarat
communal riots of 2002 and the Delhi Sikh riots of 1984 in the same breath,
seeking to distance itself from the idea of a Narendra Modi-led BJP and also to
quash suggestions of any proximity to the Congress.

"During the communal riots of 2002, Narendra Modi had badly failed to discharge
his duty as the chief minister of the state in controlling the riots," JD(U)
general secretary K.C. Tyagi said on being asked about the secular credentials
of the Gujarat chief minister, perceived to be the BJP's prime ministerial face.

Tyagi was briefing the media on the first day of the JD(U)'s national council
and executive body meetings here.

If he tried to assert the JD(U)'s consistent opposition to Modi, Tyagi was more
than caustic in his remarks against the Congress, which he termed an "enemy
party" and went on to recall the 1984 riots.

"We are opposed to the 2002 Gujarat communal riots. And we are also opposed to
the Sikh riots of 1984," Tyagi said.

"Congress se alliance dur dur tak nahi hoga. Congress sekhuda bachaye (There is
no possibility of an alliance with the Congress in the distant future too. God
save us from the Congress)," Tyagi added.

Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had dropped hints of a warming up of relations
between the JD(U) and Congress at his "Adhikar Rally" in Delhi last month.
Nitish had praised Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P.
Chidambaram and put his support on the table for whichever formation grants
special status to Bihar.

However, sources in the JD(U) pointed out that Tyagi is a known loyalist of
Sharad Yadav - appointed as party president for a third term today. Sharad is
known for his strong anti-Congress views. The sources emphasised that at the end
of the day, Nitish Kumar's decision would ultimately prevail, since he was the
overarching leader.

Leaders close to Nitish said he too believes the "Congress was a sinking ship"
for now, given the strong anti-incumbency sentiments over corruption and price
rise but he had not closed the option. He will take a call as the situation
emerges, possibly post-elections, these leaders said.

A Nitish camp leader reasoned that an alliance with the Congress might be needed
to ensure the complete support of the Muslims. If Nitish goes it alone and Lalu
Prasad's RJD has an alliance with the Congress, then the Muslim vote would
split, he pointed out.

The JD(U) also tried not to raise the heat over the BJP just yet - in fact, to
many Tyagi sounded conciliatory as he described the BJP as a "dost" (friend).

"BJP hamari dost party hai. Dost se na saudebaazi ki jaati hai na dabao dala
jaata hai (The BJP is our friend. With a friend, you neither indulge in
bargaining nor do you put pressure)," Tyagi said.

Party sources, however, rejected any dilution in its "no compromise" stand on
Modi. "Our stand remains the same. There is no question of dilution," said a
leader close to Nitish, pointing out that it would be clearly spelt out in the
political resolution to be adopted tomorrow.

At its meeting today, the JD(U) only sought to build its case against it's
alliance partner with the organisational report adopted today charging the BJP
with not following "alliance dharma" outside Bihar.

"The BJP did not play the alliance dharma with the JD(U) in many states like
Jharkhand, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra. They rejected our
proposal for seat-sharing in these states," Tyagi said.

Party insiders said the political resolution that will be adopted tomorrow would
endorse the line Nitish had already taken - that the NDA should face the 2014
Lok Sabha polls with a prime ministerial face having "secular credentials".

The only relief he could extend to the BJP would be not to fix any deadline for
finalising the prime ministerial name.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              887 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 3, 2012 Saturday

Riots in retrospect

BYLINE: Seema Chishti

LENGTH: 686  words


Riots in retrospect

Ten years after the Gujarat riots, Rashtriya Sahara writes a full-page review on
February 28: "Ten years have passed since the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat in
2002, but Chief Minister Narendra Modi tries to talk about his electoral success
in response to the bitter questions of his opponents. When asked about the riot
culprits being unpunished, victims still being harassed and having received no
compensation, Modi has often got up and moved away from the camera. In March
2010, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was appointed by the Supreme Court to
probe the Gujarat riots, which asked Modi to answer some questions, details of
which are now in public domain. But  many questions still remain unanswered."

In another, more positive piece of comment, it writes: "Muslims do not want to
talk much about the riots, ten years later. Some infer that the Gujarati Muslim
is so afraid that he does not want to speak - but that is not the case. Some may
indeed be afraid, most Muslims are committed to rebuilding their lives, bit by
bit, struggling against circumstance. They must be saluted for this". It quotes
Iqbal's famous line: 'Sitaron se aage jahan aur bhi hain' (there are other
worlds beyond the stars).

Describing Gujarat as 'Maadr-e-Hind ke rukhsar par thehra hua ansoo ' (a
teardrop on the face of  Mother India), the daily Inquilab, published from
Mumbai, Delhi, Lucknow, Kanpur and Bareilly, compares the  riots with the
violence and destruction of India's Partition.

Newly united front?

The strong opposition of several chief ministers to the now-deferred National
Counter-Terrorism Centre (NCTC) has been much discussed in the Urdu press.
Jamaat-e-Islami's biweekly, Daawat, writes on February 22: "It has been
confirmed that the entire exercise was undertaken by the Centre, keeping state
governments in the dark, without any discussion or consultation. The objections
raise fundamental questions of weakening federalism, which can lead to other
problems."

The New Delhi-based weekly, Nai Duniya, edited by Samajwadi Party leader and
former MP Shahid Siddiqui, however, calls it "a rebellion by the chief ministers
to snatch power from the Congress and BJP in 2014". In a piece of commentary
(February 27), the paper writes: "It is not just a disagreement with the
Centre's decision - the objective is to forge a new united front against the
Congress and the BJP... After the inclusion of a party like Telugu Desam, the
way will be cleared for a strong political formation."

The Maharashtra check

Lucknow-based daily Aag writes in its February 18 editorial: "The results of the
Maharashtra municipal elections, particularly in Mumbai, amid the UP elections,
have been an eye-opener for the Congress." It adds: "The Congress-NCP alliance
is now being described as a mistake. Some Congressmen say that the NCP
succcesfully bargained for seats held by the Congress, and Congress could have
kept those 25-odd seats that it lost.

Rashtriya Sahara, in its February 21 editorial, says that Raj Thackeray managed
to snatch18 seats from the Shiv Sena. "Dadar area was the most powerful
stronghold of Bal Thackeray. Shiv Sena Bhawan, the symbol of the Thackeray
clan's power, is situated there. Now Raj Thackeray has captured Dadar", the
paper says. It says that the Congress-NCP combine is still ahead of the Shiv
Sena-BJP alliance in smaller towns and rural areas, and that "significantly,
the entire election process was free of the Anna Hazare factor". However, the
paper says, "despite the fact that the election day was declared a holiday, 55
per cent of Mumbai's middle class chose to stay home with their family."

Music and words

According to a report in Delhi-based daily, Hamara Samaj (February 22), at the
143rd birth anniversary of legendary Urdu poet Ghalib in Delhi's Ghalib Academy,
Prof. Shamim Hanafi, a renowned Urdu scholar, said that Ghalib was very
well-versed in the intricacies of Hindustani music: "Ghalib had also chosen
certain ragas for his ghazals and he has stated in one of his letters that a
particular ghazal should be sung in Raag Jhinjhoti," Prof. Hanafi revealed."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              888 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

RIOTERS ARE TARGETED BY PRISONERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 380  words


YOUNG offenders jailed following this summer's riots became targets for fellow
inmates who were worried about family and friends caught up in the disturbances,
inspectors said yesterday.

Nick Hardwick, the chief inspector of prisons, said staff concerns for new
inmates led to the number of young offenders put on suicide and self harm
prevention forms increasing by 200% at Feltham young offenders institute in west
London.

Some young people were introduced to gangs and violence for the first time while
others were moved to other institutions more than 200 miles away to make space
for more rioters, inspectors said.

The riots became the "primary cause of fights", with those involved being seen
by other inmates as responsible for putting other prisoners' families in danger,
for damaging their home towns, and for the transfer of their friends to other
institutions.

Some young people were even "ostracised by their families due to their
involvement in the riots", the inspectors said.

"Some families had told officers that they were thinking of moving home due to
their community's animosity towards those who had family members involved in the
riots."

Inspectors who visited Feltham on September 12, after August's riots, went on:
"Young people already in the prison had negative perceptions of those involved
in the riots as they felt that they were responsible for the transfer of their
friends to other prisons.

"They had seen their home areas attacked on television and were worried about
family and friends there."

Existing prisoners were moved to prevent disturbances, but "there had been
attacks on those involved in the riots and this was now the primary cause of
fights", the inspectors said.

They went on: "Young people on different units had formed themselves into gangs
and there had been fights between units. This included those who had not been
involved in gangs in the community before and who had become part of the unit
gang to protect themselves.

"Young people who had not previously experienced violence were witnessing it
first hand in custody and some had become more vulnerable as a result.

"Although there had been no actual self-harming, the number of open ACCTs
(assessment, care in custody and teamwork assessments) had increased by 200% due
to staff concerns."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              889 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Behind the rumours: how we built our Twitter riots interactive

BYLINE: Guardian Interactive teamguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 946 words

ABSTRACT

An interdisciplinary team of academics and some advanced web technologies were
behind one of our most ambitious visualisations yet

FULL TEXT

Throughout the UK riots, many scanned the internet in search of reliable
information. In the absence of confirmed news, the web was often the only way of
tracking events. Amidst the hubbub, countless topics came and went. As worries
mounted, speculation grew. Rare individuals requested sources, countered
hearsay, sought the truth. The rise and fall of rumours on Twitter is a striking
display of social forces in action.

Asked to produce an interactive visualisation for the Reading the Riots project,
we resolved to find a way to show the birth and death of rumours on Twitter. The
result is one of the most ambitious pieces we have ever built, both in terms of
data analysis and dynamic graphics. It's purpose: to display how misinformation
corrects itself in open, unregulated forums.

Our initial source was a corpus of 2.6 million tweets provided by Twitter, all
ofwhich 'related to' the riots by virtue of containing at least one of a series
of hashtags.

The first challenge was to work out which rumours we should track, and how to
isolate tweets that related to these rumours. Working in conjunction with
journalists who'd covered the story, we identified 7 key rumours, ranging from
the frivolous - that army tanks had been deployed in the City of London - to the
more sobering - that the Tottenham riots began with the police beating a
16-year-old girl.

With help from an interdisciplinary team of researchers at the Universities of
Manchester, St Andrews and Leicester, we distilled the overall corpus down to a
series of subsets related to each rumour. We then undertook a more hands-on
approach to find the tweets that best represented each story.

Next came the task of visualising the 'flow' of a particular rumour as it took
flight. Looking to projects like Bloom's Fizz for inspiration, we decided upon
an aesthetic that shows tweets as circles grouped into larger circles. In our
case, this grouping would place the items into clusters - each comprising a set
of retweets for a given tweet.

To make this work, we needed to find which tweets belong to each cluster. Again,
our academic partners proved invaluable, providing a parametrized Levenshtein
distance algorithm for finding all tweets within a certain "distance" from each
other in textual terms.

Once the clusters were identified, we developed a system to visualize their rise
and fall over time. Sizing each tweet according to the influence of its author
(determined by follower count), we added a decay function that would allow it to
dissipate over time. As such, clusters grow and shrink as their theme is taken
up by additional voices.

Our last challenge was to classify each tweet according to a 'common
senseunderstanding' of its main role as a communicative act. Did it support,
oppose, query or comment on a rumour? In addition to an algorithmic analysis by
our academic partners, each tweet was independently coded by three sociology PhD
students in order to enable us to check for reliability. All the results were
then subject to final review for quality assurance purposes. These categories
could then be used to colour code each tweet so that readers get an overall
picture of what direction the dialogue is taking.

With this work underway, developers Martin Shuttleworth and Robin Beitra built
an interactive timeline that would allow each rumour to be replayed like a
video. Getting such complex graphics in place using web standards poses many
problems. After seeking advice from some experienced friends, we chose an
architecture that resembles what you'd find under the hood of an arcade game.
The data for each rumour is loaded from a JSON file and placed in a structured
model. Every frame, the model is queried to find what's in play, a custom
physics engine is updated to reflect the results and a renderer draws the
current state to the screen.

Robin went to pains to ensure we could cater for the largest possible audience.
He built alternative renderers for WebGL, HTML5 Canvas and Flash so that even
older browsers would have access. He then fine tuned the amount of information
passed to the renderer so that it just draws what has changed rather than
rebuilding the whole scene each frame.

Martin did some great work to make an interactive playhead that lets the rest of
the system what time it is. Backbone.js proved very useful for keeping
everything in sync. We added a graph of tweet volume over time to help people
find the most interesting parts of the story. This is drawn in SVG or VML
depending on browser capability.

Finally we attempted to trace the narrative arc of each story with a series of
editorially curated panels, each of which cites a key tweet (or tweets) from
within the life of the rumour. This adds helpful context to what might otherwise
be a somewhat abstract journey.

We're pretty happy with the result. The combination of fluid movement, ebb and
flow and polarised colours gives the effect of watching biological phenomena
unfold. We hope putting memes under the microscope will help untangle the forces
at play in further dialogues too.

More open data

Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian

World government data

· Search the world's government data with our gateway

Development and aid data

· Search the world's global development data with our gateway

Can you do something with this data?

· Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group·
Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk

· Get the A-Z of data· More at the Datastore directory· Follow us on Twitter·
Like us on Facebook

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              890 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

MP seeks longer prison terms for any rioter who dons a mask; Private bill aims
to give police another arrest tool

BYLINE: Robert Hiltz, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 201  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A private member's bill to ban the use of masks in the midst of a riot is set to
see its first round of debate in the House of Commons Thursday.

The bill comes as Vancouver police are handing out posters to try to round up a
number of suspects they say participated in June's Stanley Cup riots.

Alberta Conservative MP Blake Richards says his bill - dubbed the Preventing
Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act
- is an attempt to prevent violence in the streets by making it illegal to wear
a disguise while an individual is part of a riot.

When a riot starts, he said, "there's so much going that police have a very
difficult time to identify who these people are. This just gives [police]
another tool to make an arrest of someone who is clearly in a riot situation:
they're disguising themselves, they've obviously got an intention to do
something that they don't want to be identified when they are doing it."

Richards' bill would amend the Criminal Code section that imposes a jail term of
up to two years for participating in a riot or unlawful assembly. If the bill is
passed, wearing a mask and taking part in a riot would increase that jail term
to five years.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              891 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

Thailand: People asked to vacate malls; riot police seen near rally site

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 9 April

[Report by The Nation from the "Breaking News" section: "Anti-Riot Planned at
Rajprasong"]

Around 4.00 pm, customers and workers were asked to leave shopping malls around
Rajprasong.

Police are reportedly preparing six locations to detain suspects.

The six locations are in Pathum Thani, Kanchanaburi, Prachuab Khiri Khan,
Saraburi, Ratchaburi and Chon Buri.

As the riot forces were seen inside the Police headquarters, located near
Rajprasong, the red shirts are bracing for anti-riot operation.

Red-shirt leaders, Weng Tojirakarn, Veera Musigapong and Kokaew Pikulthong, took
turns to rouse the crowds.

Weng urged protesters to act as human shield to prevent the advance of riot
forces.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 9 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              892 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 5, 2009

Prison riot gear locked in storage during inmate attack

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 234 words


Prison officers at Mountjoy were unable to access full anti riot equipment as
inmates almost overran the prison - because it was locked in storage. Officers
had to rely on just over a dozen shields as antiriot gear, including extra
shields and helmets, was stored in the prison's separation unit and could not be
accessed at short notice.

The Sunday Business Post has also learned that during last July's riot, which
was the worst in over a decade:

* prison guards could not stop the riot until torches were sent from St
Patrick's Institution, as prisoners had disabled the lights and Mountjoy's
supply of batteries had run out;

* fire-extinguishers, needed to put out blazes set by the rioters, were unusable
as they were broken or dried out when guards attempted to deploy them.

Five prison officers were injured during the disturbance, which saw inmates on
the D wing riot after arming themselves with hammers, chisels and planks of wood
they stole from a carpentry workshop.

Prison guards believe that a full-scale takeover of Mountjoy Prison was only
narrowly averted as prisoners on the A and B wings mis-timed their bid to riot
at the same time.

It is understood that the state Prisons Inspector, Judge Michael Reilly, who is
due to issue his first annual report into Irish prisons in coming weeks, has
been briefed by prison staff on the lack of equipment that was available to
officers during the riot.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              893 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 8, 2002, Monday

JAPAN LOOKS TO DRUMCREE FOR FOOTIE RIOT TIPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 235 words


THE Japanese are considering using RUC-style tactics to quell any riots that may
flare during this summer's World Cup soccer tournament.

It was confirmed yesterday that Japanese riot police are poring over videos of
how the RUC handled the rioting on Drumcree hill during disturbances at the
Portadown Orange Order protests.

It is believed that observers from the Japanese police have also visited
Northern Ireland to discuss riot control tactics that have been used here in the
past in places such as Belfast, Londonderry and Portadown.

In just two months' time, England - whose travelling fans have been involved in
numerous serious riots in the past - take on arch-enemies Argentina in what is
expected to be one of the most tense of the World Cup ties, particularly as this
year marks the 20th anniversary of the Falklands War.

Japanese police riot squads in Sapporo, where this potentially explosive tie
will be played, have been rehearsing crowd control for weeks now.

Riot police have been "taking on" their police colleagues in full-scale battle
enactments.

One Japanese police source said: "The rehearsals look very realistic. Stones and
bottles have been flying and the 'rioters' were wielding iron bars."

He said that the video footage of the RUC's handling of rioting at Drumcree had
proved to be very useful in their preparations for policing the 2002 World Cup.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited


                              894 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

MHA to beef up police anti-riot force;
Its plans also include placing more cameras and officers in hot spots

BYLINE: Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


ALL eight recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry (COI) into the Little
India riot to minimise the likelihood of similar incidents in the future have
been accepted by the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean told
Parliament yesterday.

Certain measures such as beefing up police presence in the popular ethnic
enclave and a faster way of activating anti-riot troops in a large public order
incident, are already in place, he added.

Other recommendations to strengthen the Home Team and improve the management of
congregation areas, are being studied and will soon be implemented.

DPM Teo, who is also Home Affairs Minister, was setting out the ministry's
response to the COI report in detail for the first time since it was released
last week.

He said the inquiry's analysis of the riot will be useful for the police as the
force reviews its doctrines and procedures for public order incidents. The
findings would also help hone the incident management skills of officers and
commanders who "did the best they could in the circumstances they faced, with
the information they had" on Dec 8, he added.

"Although there was destruction and damage to emergency vehicles, the riot was
fully brought under control within two hours of the initial accident, contained
within the immediate location, without loss of life or serious injury, and
without the use of lethal force including firearms," said DPM Teo. "The area was
reopened to people and traffic by early next morning."

The COI's recommendations, he added, address weaknesses and areas his ministry
has "to improve on, provide validation of several of our ongoing plans which
address the COI's concerns, sharpen our focus on what the priorities should be,
and provide impetus for us to do more in certain areas and to implement them
sooner".

A key plank of the MHA's plans in the wake of the most serious public order
incident here in 40 years, is to add 300 more officers to the police anti-riot
force. This would double the strength of units in the Special Operations
Command. Others include installing more closed-circuit television cameras and
adding boots on the ground in hot spots like Little India. "A riot on the
streets of Singapore is unacceptable We have to take preventive action to
minimise the likelihood of such a riot occurring, and improve our capability to
deal effectively with a riot if one does occur," said DPM Teo. "Anyone who takes
part in a riot must know that he will be dealt with firmly in accordance with
our laws."

Moulmein-Kallang GRC MP Denise Phua, who oversees part of Little India, was one
of several MPs who commended the Home Team in Parliament yesterday.

"I just want to officially thank and salute the Home Team for its contribution,
including the ground commander from Tanglin (Police Division) who I believe has
done what he could in the heat of action and without the benefit of hindsight."

asyiqins@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              895 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riot explodes at new Tesco protest

BYLINE: Steve Bird

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 583 words


Police fought running battles with more than 400 masked protesters in Bristol
yesterday after a peaceful demonstration against a Tesco store turned into
another riot.

A mob armed with bricks, concrete blocks, roof tiles and bottles clashed with
officers outside the supermarket, which has been closed since it was attacked
last week. Baton charges and horses were used to try to contain the crowds
during a four-hour siege in the early hours. Riot vans were attacked, fires were
lit, makeshift barricades set up and graffiti were daubed on buildings
throughout the area. The destruction was so widespread that witnesses likened
the scene to a war zone.

Several officers were taken to hospital with head, neck, back and leg injuries
after being hit by missiles. Fifteen people were arrested.

Police later raided the Telepathic Heights squat opposite the Tesco shop, in the
belief that it was the headquarters of those responsible for the rioting. The
squat was also raided shortly before last week's riot, amid fears that some
occupants were planning to petrol-bomb the Tesco shop, a new branch that had
been open for six days.

Avon & Somerset Police, which drafted in extra officers from Wales, again had to
defend its actions after claims that it had been heavyhanded and provoked an
angry backlash.

Demonstrators had gathered peacefully in Cheltenham Road to protest outside
Tesco at 9pm on Thursday. About 12.30am, police in riot gear moved in to quell
the dancing and music as some protesters covered their faces with black scarves.
As the atmosphere became more tense, police made a charge with batons and horses
down the busy road, still filled with revellers drinking before the Bank
Holiday.

As the masked protesters showered officers with stones, bottles and tiles they
shouted: "Whose streets? Our streets!" They also attacked a riot van and several
bystanders were hit by flying glass.

Milo Sweet, 35, an amateur photographer who witnessed the riot, said: "Police
came charging down the road with their batons. That's when most of the crowd got
angry and the atmosphere changed. They had stopped wearing their round hats, put
on their riot gear and just charged. I got hit by a riot van and a police horse.

"The police kept telling us to move.

But they were trying to move us to a place where bottles were raining down. They
didn't seem organised at all."

Running battles broke out across Stokes Croft, spilling on to neighbouring
streets. Riot officers set up checkpoints to hem in demonstrators as a police
helicopter filmed overhead.

They also stationed riot vans close to the city centre amid fears that the
multimillion-pound Cabot Circus shopping centre would become a target.

John Arkey, 45, said: "There were small groups of mainly youths, with scarves
over their faces, battling with police. They ripped concrete from walls and
stones from the floor and threw it at the police. There was glass flying
everywhere. When the police charged they were very aggressive. That made the
situation even more scary. It was like a war zone."

Police eventually regained control of the streets just before 4am. Assistant
Chief Constable Rod Hansen said: "A number of people attended this event to
incite violence and cause criminal damage. We will not tolerate this behaviour
in our communities."

A spokeswoman for Tesco said that the store was not the sole target for the
demonstrators and many people in the area were keen for it to reopen.

'They ripped concrete from the walls and threw it at the police'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The demonstration turned violent after midnight. Police made a baton
charge and several officers were injured by missiles
MICHAEL LLOYD / BRISTOL NEWS / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              896 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

2002 VIOLENCE Past default can't block loan to riot affected: HC

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 250 words


At a time when rules for bank defaulters are becoming more stringent, the
Gujarat high court has held in a case that a bank cannot deny loan under special
policy for 2002-riot affected, just because the applicant had earler defaulted
on a loan.

The HC has asked the state go

vernment and Bank of India to extend loan to a 2002-riot affected trader from
Bhavnagar, Usman Ghani Aadhiya, who had defaulted in an earlier loan obtained
from the same bank.

The bank was refusing to pay him a fresh loan after riots on the

ground of his earlier default.

Aadhiya had suffered damage of Rs 5.1 lakh to his business in the riots and was
thus entitled to a loan at 4% flat interest from a bank according to government
policy.

The HC said it was not permissible for the bank to exclude him from extending
the loan, because he falls in the category of the riots affected, for whom the

scheme was floated by the government.

"In denying the benefit, the policy cannot be allowed to distract from its
object, else it would be a policy operated in a selfdefeating way antithetic to
the very object and purpose.

Earlier default is entirely unconnected aspect to the conditions of the policy
and the compass and object of the policy," the court order reads.

Aadhiya had cited the government resolution (GR) passed on March 16, 2002, that
laid down the policy to provide financial assistance to the riot affected, and
to those shopkeepers and businessmen, whose businesses and sources of livelihood
had suffered in the communal riots.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              897 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Riot Fest Denver's future to be settled after public hearing

BYLINE: Matt Miller heyreverb.com

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 471 words


Arapahoe County is seeking public input to decide the future of Riot Fest, which
is scheduled to take place at May Farms in Byers on Sept. 19-21. At the hearing,
scheduled for July 1 at Byers American Legion Hall, Arapahoe County
Commissioners will listen to public comment on land use matters at May Farms,
where Riot Fest took place for the first time in 2013. May Farms at Byers has
requested public comment on two applications, one for the May Farms
Agri-tainment expansion Use by Special Review Amendment and another for the
Temporary Use Permit for Riot Fest, according to documents provided Arapahoe
County Zoning Administrator Tammy King. Following the hearing, the Arapahoe
County Planning Department will evaluate the information provided by the
community and decide if Riot Fest has permission to take place at May Farms on
Sept.

19-21. "There are no guarantees in life," said Riot Fest organizer Max Wagner.
"With every city, with every venue the permits are generally not issued until
close to the event." "We're confident that we're going to get to a place where
the commissioners, the local community leaders are happy," Wagner said. "We
always have contingency plans, but we don't feel as though that will be
necessary." He added that Riot Fest goes through a similar process at events
held in Chicago and Toronto. Until the department makes a decision, King said
Riot Fest does not have permission to hold the event at May Farms. "This would
be a good one for Vegas," said King on if the department would allow or deny
Riot Fest to take place. "We've gotten a lot of emails both in support and in
opposition." An advertisement running in the I-70 Scout is urging the Byers
community to voice its opposition against Riot Fest. "Opponents of the event
must voice their opinions now or Byers might become the wrong kind of town for
families and farmers!," reads the ad, which is paid for by Opponents of Riot
Fest. The advertisement lists the contact information for King, who is taking
letters from the public on the matter. "There are concerned citizens in every
one of our markets," Wagner said. "People will get a personal audience with us
if they have an issue." On June 30, Riot Fest is holding an open house at May
Farms, where organizers will meet with the public to address any concerns. Riot
Fest, produced by Denver promoter Soda Jerk Presents, is scheduled to bring the
Cure, the National, Weezer, Rise Against, the Flaming Lips and more big acts.
When the event debuted in 2013 it faced the same review process, but King said
this year the community has gotten more time to evaluate the festival. This is
the largest event that takes place at May Farms, according to King. Soda Jerk
declined comment for this story.

The crowd appears to be enjoying Day One of the inaugural Riot Fest Denver in
2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The crowd appears to be enjoying Day One of the inaugural Riot Fest
Denver in 2013.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                              898 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

NARATHIWAT PRISON RIOT BROUGHT UNDER CONTROL

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 331 words


The riots followed a search of the cells for drugs and illegal items.

Three injured inmates were sent to hospital.

Corrections Department chief Chatchai Sutthiklom said they would not immediately
investigate the cause of the riot. Also, they will avoid moving the leading
demonstrators to other prisons, for fear that violence might erupt again.

The Region 4 Internal Security Operations Command chief, Maj-General Akara
Thiproj, said that officials had brought the situation under control and they
would have to negotiate with the inmates not to create a riot again.

Akara said that if the inmates tried to create chaos again, the command was
ready to help the provincial governor, who has the authority to decide and
tackle a prison riot.

A meeting was held at 9am yesterday, which was attended by Chatchai, Justice
Ministry deputy permanent secretary Thawee Sodsong, Narathiwat Governor Thanon
Vechakornkanont, human rights advocates and related officials. About 300
officials continued to surround the prison and all four roads leading there were
blocked.

Thanon said they aimed to end the riot as soon as possible without using
violence, as the inmates had stopped destroying things or behaving violently.
The negotiations also resulted in inmates asking for drinking water and
electricity supply and letting officials deliver food to female inmates at
around 11am.

At 12.30pm, officials also arranged for an ambulance to transport three inmates
injured during Thursday's riot. The injured men - Thai Muhamaromli Navi, 21,
Burmese Juan Din, 37 and Malaysian Mohammad Chalizal, 33 - were taken to
Narathiwat Rajanakarin Hospital.

The riots at Narathiwat Prison, the second in the past two months, erupted on
Thursday and turned violent, after some 10-15 inmates acted against a search by
guards and police to suppress drug dealing from inside the prison walls.

The Narathiwat Prison holds a total of 1,064 male and 94 female inmates. Up to
150 convicted insurgents are also imprisoned there.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              899 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

SCI to hold series of lectures on race riot

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 283 words


Springfield College in Illinois-Benedictine University is sponsoring a series of
lectures this year to commemorate the 1908 race riot.

Race-relations expert James Loewen will be at SCI on Wednesday, April 2, to
discuss his book about "sundown towns" - communities that ritually expelled
minorities at sunset. Much of Loewen's research for his book on the subject,
"Sundown Towns: A Hidden Dimension of American Racism," focused on Illinois
communities.

Loewen, a former sociology professor at the University of Vermont and Decatur
native, is best known for his book "Lies My Teacher Told Me." He has also
researched the Springfield 1908 race riot.

Loewen's lecture is from 5 to 7 p.m. and takes place at the Brinkerhoff Home on
the SCI campus, 1500 N. Fifth St. Reservations are requested by calling
525-1420, ext. 292.

In September, SCI will host Washington and Lee University history professor
Roberta Senechal, who will discuss her research on the riot. Senechal's "The
Sociogenesis of a Race Riot" is the only book-length scholarly work on the
incident.

In August 1908, a white mob approached the Sangamon County Jail intending to
lynch two black inmates. The inmates were slipped out the back door to safety,
but the mob, angered by the tactic, turned on black residents and businesses.

After two days of rioting, seven were dead and dozens of mostly black-owned
homes and businesses were destroyed.

Some civil rights activists, in response to the riot, formed the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1909.

For more information about the race riot, including recent coverage of its
commemoration by The State Journal-Register, visit
http://www.sj-r.com/news/raceriot/.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              900 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     August 8, 2002 Thursday CITY-D EDITION

Test Drive: Products' pluses eclipsed by flaws;
A digital audio player's controls are hard to use. A backup program fails to
live up to its claims.

BYLINE: John J. Fried Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. C11

LENGTH: 637 words


Rio Riot Digital Audio PlayerSonicblue. Windows and Macintosh. $349.

If you are a music aficionado, there is nothing more painful than having to
leave your recordings at home, be they on CDs or in digital files.

Sure, you can take along a CD or MP3 player with a few dozen songs when you go
out into the world. But how lame is that if you have thousands of songs in your
library of tunes?

Fortunately, the Rio Riot, outfitted with a 20-gigabyte hard drive, makes it
possible to leave home armed to the ears with songs.

To be precise, 2,000 tunes if you record songs on the Rio Riot in a high-quality
format or about 5,000 if you choose a format that delivers good, but not great,
sound.

The Rio Riot also helps you organize music into playlists.

Depending on your whim, you can choose, among other options, to listen to your
favorite 25 tunes, your favorite artist or composer, your favorite genre of
music.

The sound that comes out of Riot is quite good. The LCD screen is clear and
crisp.

The Riot is six inches long, 31/2 inches high, and more than an inch deep.

That, in the larger scheme of things, is pretty small. And that the Riot can
still do so much is certainly a technological wow.

Still, the dimensions - and its 10-ounce weight - make it a less than ideal
portable device, especially when you compare it with Apple's iPod.

Working with the Riot's controls could also take some of the edge off the
pleasure it might otherwise give.

The volume button is small and awkwardly positioned away from the controls for
programming and using the device.

Those controls have their own problems. Taking advantage of them requires, at
least at the beginning, continuous references to the manual.

Getting access to the controls, once you know how to use them, means struggling
to get the edges of the Riot's leather case out of the way.

The Riot is a nice try, but not quite there. More information:
www.sonicblue.com.

Handy BackupNovosoft. Windows. $30.

A first-rate backup program is a must, given that a host of plagues - from
hard-drive crashes to viruses - can put data out of your reach or even destroy
it.

Handy Backup says it will back up your data to another hard drive, CD-RWs, Zip
cartridges, floppy drives, or another computer on a network.

It will do full or incremental backups, according to a schedule of your
choosing.

It can compress files to squeeze more of them into storage, and will safeguard
them with 128-bit encryption.

Impressive claims. Too bad Handy Backup does not live up to them.

The compression program takes an agonizingly long time to get its work done when
a lot of graphics files are among those being copied.

Handy Backup is supposed to warn you if you run out of room on a CD-RW. It also
is supposed to advise you to insert a new disk in the player.

During my test, I got a warning that the CD-RW was full, but no nudge to replace
the disk with a blank one.

To make matters worse, not only was I unable to get that message off the screen,
it ultimately froze my system.

Only in nosing around Novosoft's Web site later did I learn that to span
multiple CDs, Handy Backup requires the help of additional drivers. They have to
be downloaded from Adaptec through a link provided on the Novosoft site.

Handy Backup is also supposed to back up open files. But that proved not to be
the case with Outlook.

Backup refused to back up its data file until I closed Outlook.

That is no big deal if you are sitting at the PC while a backup is taking place.
But if you have scheduled the operation for 2 a.m. and have left Outlook open to
continuously receive e-mail, you'll wake in the morning to a process that has
stopped, waiting for you to do something.

Like get your money back. For information: www.handybackup.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                  Copyright 2002 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              901 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 10, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MINISTER EGGSCAPES AS MOB PELT MOTOR

BYLINE: KIERAN DINEEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 201 words


MINISTER for Children James Reilly had to get a Garda escort after protestors,
including kids, laid siege to his car.

Eggs and stones were hurled at the motor before riot cops arrived at Bluebell,
Dublin, on Thursday night.

Carrying shields and in full riot gear, officers pushed the crowd back and then
brought the car to Kilmainham station.

Minister Reilly, left, was visiting the Bluebell Youth and Community Centre for
the launch of the National Youth Strategy 2015-2020 on Thursday afternoon.

While he was inside the centre, protestors gathered around his car, including
youths from the area. Gardai arrived and advised the Minister to abandon the
vehicle. He then left in an unmarked Garda car.

A spokesman for Minister Reilly said: "On the advice of An Garda Siochana, the
Minister did not return to his car, which might have provoked a serious
incident."

After he left, some, still believing he was inside, hurled stones and eggs at
his car - before a public order unit arrived. In a video posted online, a woman
shouts: "Your mother won't have a car like that because they took your mother's
money and your father's f***ing money." @KieranDineen Shell shock . . youth hits
soon to be abandoned car with egg

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bombarded ... riot cops arrive after Minister's car attackedFlaring up
... youth throws scooter at riot van as it leavesBatons and shields ... riot
cops push back young protestors

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              902 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                  May 5, 2013

Set up SIT to probe anti-Sikh riots: Victim writes to PM

LENGTH: 128  words


New Delhi: An anti-Sikh riots victim, who is on an indefinite fast against the
acquittal of Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, on Saturday shot off a letter to
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh urging him to set up a Special Investigation Team
(SIT) to probe the 1984 pogrom.



Nirpreet Kaur, who lost her father in the riots after the assassination of
Indira Gandhi, began her fast on Thursday protesting Kumar's acquittal in a riot
case and demanding setting up of an SIT to probe the incident. "It was not a
Hindu-Sikh riot but a political carnage. In order to save political people,
evidences were buried, witnesses were not heard. We demand that an SIT be set up
in this matter so that truth can come forward and the culprits can be brought to
justice," she said in the letter.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              903 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Find them, Out them, Make them pay

BYLINE: The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 108  words


These words and images came out of Wednesday night's shocking riot in downtown
Vancouver. If you know who any of these people are, do the right thing and tell
the police.

3

Billy Chickite

" this is my first riot and i think im doing a pretty good job!!! lol i smell
like burning people and cars and kicked a lot of riot pigs shields,got baton
marks all or me to go with my bloody face,whoya!!!! this is the best exsperince
of my life!!! riot riot riot"

Mandy Chickite

"I am ashamed to be related to you."

Janet Dawn Sankey-Fisher

"Billy! Come on now, this is not a way to represent Canada. It's just a game."
-Facebook post by Billy Chickite, and two responses

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / ;;  A man identifying himself as Brock Anton wrote the above Facebook
post.;;  A man takes off with a couple of tuxedos.;;  A masked man carrying a
baseball bat is seen inside The Bay.;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;; ;;
;; ;; ;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              904 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

THE POLITICS OF ANARCHISM

BYLINE: By Aditya Menon

LENGTH: 821  words


GIVEN the present state of the political discourse in the country, Ward
Berenschot's Riot Politics would be considered a rather politically incorrect
book. It comes at a time when it has become fashionable to term the 2002 Gujarat
riots as a thing of the past, which should conveniently be forgotten for the
sake of " good governance" and strong leadership". However, Berenschot's
narrative of the riots is completely different from the various accounts that
have come out so far.

The author, a political scientist at the Royal Netherlands Institute for
Southeast Asian and Caribbean studies, views the riots from the prism of a
researcher. The most crucial aspect of Riot Politics is that it treats the 2002
pogrom as a culmination of a process and not as an event, as has been the case
with the various accounts of the violence written by journalists and activists.

Berenschot presents an extremely sophisticated analysis of the riots, combining
a diverse set of theoretical frameworks with extensive ethnographic data. The
data has been collected through 15 months ethnographic fieldwork during which
Berenschot stayed in three different local- ities in Ahmedabad from January 2005
to March 2006. He firmly places his work in the framework of scholars influenced
by Partha Chatterjee, who emphasised that politics needed to be seen in its
everyday manifestations.

He narrates how the development of the modern state in Gujarat led to the break
down of traditional forms of local leadership.

The functions performed by traditional guilds were taken over by the state
apparatus. But as the bureaucracy and the municipal officials failed in
providing equitable services to all citizens, political workers from Hindu
communalist outfits like the Bajrang Dal, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the
Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bharatiya Janata Party stepped in.

They acted as brokers for state patronage and negotiated the people's way
through the state apparatus. For such political workers " getting things done"
also meant cultivating local criminals as well as statelevel politicians. By
providing a number of real examples from the field, the author establishes how
these networks came into play to carry out the riots.

Berenschot contends that the networks came up in response to everyday challenges
experienced by the people and were eventually used during the riots.

These networks, he narrates, relentlessly disseminated propaganda about Hindu-
Muslim rivalries throughout the 1990s, so much so that they even held Muslims
responsible for civic problems.

By stressing on the organised nature of the riots, Berenschot shatters the myth
that the Gujarat riots, or any other riots for the matter, are nothing but an
emotional outburst. " In their descriptions of riots, journalists regularly
speak of ' frenzied mobs', ' on a rampage' to ' vent their anger'. By offering
the emotional state of rioters as an explanation for the violence, they help to
legitimise the violence," he writes. The details Berenschot provides of the sort
of coordination that went into organising the riot are eye- opening. The riots
were a special occasion for which the Hindutva outfits set aside their self-
righteous antipathy to intoxicants! Alcohol, tobacco and drugs were also
provided to the rioters to numb their senses.

Riot Politics is a stinging indictment of the sort of politics the BJP has
pursued in Gujarat. This is particularly evident in the comparison Berenschot
draws between two of the areas he did his fieldwork in - Isanpur which suffered
heavily during the riots, and Ramrahimnagar which hasn't witnessed violence for
the past 30 years. The patronage networks operating in both the areas are more
or less identical.

But while the BJP politicians in Isanpur chose to expand their influence by
instigating violence against Muslims, the Dalit and Muslim residents of
Ramrahimnagar, backed by the Congress, remained united and maintained peace in
their area. In fact, Berenschot narrates that during the peak of the violence in
Ahmedabad, the residents of Ramrahimnagar threatened RSS- VHP activists of dire
consequences if they indulged in any mischief.

The book also doesn't spare Narendra Modi as it quotes a state minister as
having said that the Gujarat chief minister instructed the police to " co-
operate" with the rioters. Moreover, by delving in detail into the crucial role
played by brokers and middle- men, Berenschot also ends up poking holes into
Modi's claims of running an efficient administration based on equitable and
timely delivery of services.

However, the significance of Riot Politics as a book goes much beyond the
observations it makes about Modi. Its approach involving a detailed focus of the
working of networks at the localised level can be uszd to study a variety of
political phenomena, and not just riots.

Riot Politics is a sophisticated analysis of the riots, collected through months
of ethnographic fieldwork

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              905 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 15, 2001 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Fears for handcuffed detainee sparked Port Hedland riot

BYLINE: PENELOPE DEBELLE with KERRY TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words


ADELAIDE

Friday's riot at the Port Hedland detention centre was triggered by fears for
the safety of a handcuffed Iranian asylum-seeker who resisted being taken into
isolation.

Claims that the man had been beaten by Australasian Correctional Management
guards were denied yesterday by the Federal Government. A spokesman said a
misunderstanding by detainees led to the riot.

The incident happened when five men were removed from the Port Hedland centre, a
converted mining camp in the Kimberley about 220 kilometres from Broome, and
taken to police lock-up in Port Hedland.

Asem Judeh, chairman of the Palestinian Refugees and Exile Awareness Association
in Melbourne, said he was rung twice from the Port Hedland camp by a source who
told him one of the men was beaten. In response the riot had broken out, he
said.

Mr Judeh said he was told the person was aged 15 or younger and this contributed
to the situation.

He said he was told that a dispute between detainees - which the Department of
Immigration and Multicultural Affairs says caused the riot - had been resolved
three days earlier.

During the riot asylum-seekers threw stones and damaged buildings. The group was
brought under control when ACM staff sprayed tear gas.

Steve Ingram, a spokesman for Immigration Minister Philip Ruddock, said
yesterday five people had been taken to the Port Hedland lock-up on Friday and
one of them had resisted removal.

He said someone had started screaming that officers were beating them and the
riot had begun. Mr Ruddock said yesterday there was no need for an inquiry into
the riot.

It is believed the five men were still being held yesterday without charges at
the Port Hedland police lock-up.

Prime Minister John Howard said yesterday the Federal Government would not be
intimidated by rioting illegal immigrants at detention centres.

"There is no way that a government I lead is going to bow to the intimidation
involved in those riots," he told Sydney radio station 2UE.

Opposition Leader Kim Beazley stood by his calls for an inquiry but labelled the
riot disgraceful and urged detainees to realise that rioting did not help their
cause.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detainees show their anger at Port Hedland. Picture: CHANNEL
SEVEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2001 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              906 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

Religious riots down in 2015, but other riots rise

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 15 -- Religious tension in Ballabhgarh, Haryana, when 150 Muslims
sought refuge in a police station; clashes between Hindus and Muslims during
Ganesh festival processions in Belgaum, Karnataka, and riots over the birth
anniversary celebrations of medieval ruler Tipu Sultan in Madikeri, Karnataka,
represented India's religious volatility in 2015.

However, communal rioting cases in the country declined by a third, from 1,227
in 2014-the year that Narendra Modi was voted Prime Minister-to 789 in 2015,
according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data.

About 40% fewer Indians died or were injured-called "victims" in NCRB
terminology-in 2015 (1,1,74) than in 2014 (2,001).

Haryana, India's 17th largest state by population, reported the most (201)
communal rioting cases in 2015, with 200 dead or injured, followed by Karnataka
(163 cases, 203 victims), Maharashtra (80 cases, 104 victims) and Bihar (79
cases, 146 victims).

In Haryana, the rate of riots remained unchanged at 7.5 rioting cases per
million population. Karnataka reported an increase in riot incidence, from 0.6
rioting cases per million to 2.6 rioting cases per million, while the cases
quadrupled, from 38 in 2014 to 163 in 2015.

Kerala had more "political riots" than any other state, with more than half of
India's cases.

Jharkhand reduced its rate of riots, from 10 rioting cases per million to 2 per
million. The overwhelmingly tribal state became five times more communally
peaceful in 2015 compared to 2014-when assembly elections were conducted-with
communal rioting cases dropping 80% from 349 to 68.

After relatively peaceful decade, riots on the rise across India

Thirty-five years after rioting cases in India peaked at 160 per million in
1980, the country witnessed a relatively peaceful decade with respect to
communal violence, especially in the period 2003-2012, when riot rate dropped to
50 cases per million.

The incidence of riots has increased over the last three years to 60 cases per
million, or 20% more frequent compared to the last decade.

Source: National Crime Records Bureau

Rioting cases increased 251% over six decades, from 20,529 in 1953 to 76,131 in
2015; the highest ever. For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes
listed under "unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous
years.

Source: Crime In India Reports, 1997 to 2015, National Crime Records Bureau

Note: For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes listed under
"unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous years.

Of 76,131 rioting cases registered in 2015, 65,255 were filed under sections 147
to 153 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), meaning offences relating to riots, while
10,876 cases were filed under sections 141 and 142 of the IPC, meaning offences
relating to unlawful assembly. As many as 74,633 cases in 2012 and 72,126 in
2013 were registered under riots and unlawful assembly.

Cases filed only under "riots" have decreased between 2014 and 2015, while those
relating to "unlawful assembly" have increased.

Source: Crime in India 2015, National Crime Records Bureau

Note: For 2014 and 2015, we have included in "riots" crimes listed under
"unlawful assembly" because they were clubbed together in previous years.

Mass unrest nationwide in 2015 by dominant caste groups-Patels in Gujarat and
Jats in Haryana-likely resulted in the high cases of "unlawful assembly".

Bihar and Kerala: Riot leaders of India

In absolute terms, Bihar had more riots than any other state with 13,311 cases
registered in 2015, followed by Maharashtra (8,336), Uttar Pradesh (6,813),
Karnataka (6,602).

The assembly elections in Bihar in 2015, and the parting of ways of the 25-year
old coalition of the Janata Dal (United) (JDU) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)
resulted in a rise in riots in the Hindi heartland state over three years from
2013, the Indian Express reported in August 2015.

Kerala had 164 rioting cases per million population-the country's highest
rate-followed by Bihar (129), Karnataka (126).

While Jharkhand reported eight caste-based rioting cases per million population,
Tamil Nadu reported six.

Bihar reported more "agrarian riots" cases than any other state, (1,156), or 43%
of cases in the country.

(In arrangement with IndiaSpend.org, a data-driven, non-profit, public interest
journalism platform. The views expressed are those of IndiaSpend. Feedback at
[email protected])

- IndiaSpend

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              907 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             May 21, 2015 Thursday

Police need some riot gear

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 193 words


Police need some riot gear

Obama's plan to reduce the transfer of military equipment to local law
enforcement will ease the tensions between police and minorities. No longer will
minorities feel like they are oppressed by a force that should be protecting
them. No longer will minorities have to live in fear of brutalities that stem
from racial discrimination.

I agree that drones and mine resistant vehicles are not needed by most police
departments; however, some military gear would be useful in case of emergencies.
Riot gear is needed in case of a riot; social unrest is can destroy communities
and economies, and if police dressed in riot gear are needed to stop people from
destroying cars and burning down businesses, then so be it.

The reduction of military gear given to local police departments could be a
great thing. It could lead to greater relationships between police and the
communities they serve to protect; however, we must do this with caution. Some
equipment may be needed by police officers in case of emergencies, and if taken
away, may prevent law enforcement officers from doing their job, which is to
protect us.

Pawel Michalski

Mundelein

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              908 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                          February 18, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Kanye sports gear inspired by shop riots

BYLINE: ANTONIA PAGET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 116 words


KANYE West Adidas range was inspired by widespread looting at the London riots,
the rapper has revealed.

The Gold Digger singer, 37, said his Yeezy Boost collection was designed to make
high-end designer gear available to more people.

He added the collaboration came about after people looted shops to get clothes
during the 2011 riots.

West said: "A major influence was the London riots because I was living in
London and saw the way the kids wanted the clothes and I didn't have the skill
set to do the more inexpensive clothes.

"[But] now I have a team of really, really great designers."

Stars including Beyonce and Anna Wintour were at the unveiling of Kanye's
collection at New York Fashion Week.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLLECTION Kanye West

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              910 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            October 17, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Lessons of the riots

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 216  words


Lessons of the riots T he fact that violent crime dropped in parts of London
after the riots is proof that more police on the streets and more criminals
being jailed means lower crime. Nevertheless, that equation is now threatened by
cuts to funding for both the Metropolitan Police and the criminal justice
system.

In the four weeks after the August riots, violent crime in Croydon plunged by 20
per cent. The courts' swift jailing of large numbers of rioters obviously
helped, as did the flooding of the streets with police. No one believes
patrolling on that scale would be practical all the time. But the riots are an
example of why London needs higher police numbers.

Yet cuts to the Met's funding now threaten those numbers.

Likewise, the courts' capacity to act quickly is set to be damaged by cuts of
more than 20 per cent to the Justice Ministry's budget.

London's Mayor, Boris Johnson, has managed to plug the funding gap this
financial year, but, from next year, the numbers are projected to fall
significantly. At the Conservative party conference last week, he pledged not to
let that happen - but it is far from clear how he will manage it. He must ensure
that London gets the funds it needs to keep our streets safe.

This is an extract from an editorial in Friday's London Evening Standard.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              911 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Why should U.K. riots shock us? Looters share values of their rulers; Left and
right are both to blame for collapse of family and opportunity

BYLINE: Phillip Blond, International Herald Tribune

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 885  words

DATELINE: London


The riots that swept England in early August shocked the country, mainly because
there seemed to be no guiding motive or burning injustice. In fact, these riots
represent a new sociological phenomenon - one that reflects the profound social,
cultural and economic shifts in Britain over the past 30 years.

The August riots were new in that gangs of predominately young unemployed men
were able, using new media, to launch a series of semi-organized disturbances
for the purpose not of protest, but of criminal gain.

But why? Because in a savage manner, they were acting out the values that
increasingly seem to govern and embody Britain: ruthless self-interest coupled
to a rootless consumer nihilism.

That's hardly a surprise. The governing orthodoxy for the last 30 years has been
that the few on top rule the many at the bottom by persuading them that the
values of the wealthy are the best for the entire country. In modern Britain,
the bigger the business, the more effective it is at avoiding tax. If that's the
rule for the rich, logic dictates it will set the values for the poor.

British politicians are ill-placed to condemn such actions since they themselves
were hugely compromised in the scandal over the expenses claimed by members of
Parliament - often for items very much like those prized by the looters.
Moreover, the British political class looks highly susceptible to vested and
monopoly interests. News International, for example, has been shown to have
manipulated both of the main political parties for insider advantage.

Thus the top and bottom of British society seem to exhibit quite similar values
- both play the system, and both see no reason why they should not. They
represent the final triumph of a value system that does not recognize any
objective values at all.

On the left, libertarianism used state welfare to give autonomy to people it
considered too dependent on each other and too defined by outmoded codes and
values. In so doing, it rendered superfluous all the bottom-up organization and
structures of British working-class life, making people and communities
dependent on state welfare rather than on each other.

This has been most invidious in the case of the family. Cultural libertarians on
the left have followed Engels in deeming marriage to be nothing more than the
bourgeois subjugation of women. Since 1997, for example, a single mother of two
has seen her benefits increase by 85 per cent. At the same time, the tax burden
placed on a one-earner family (two parents and two children) on an average wage
is 39 per cent higher in Britain than that in other OECD countries.

The result is that children in Britain are now more than three times as likely
to live in one-parent households than they were in 1972; a third to a half of
all British children will at some point live in a one-parent family; and a third
of British children at any one time are living with just one parent. In 1971,
less than 10 per cent of all births in England and Wales were outside marriage;
in 2008, 45 per cent of all births were.

This matters because unmarried parents have great trouble staying together. By
the time a child is five, 43 per cent of unmarried parents have broken up,
versus eight per cent for married couples.

Over seven million Britons now live alone, compared to three million in 1971,
creating widespread social anonymity and fragmentation. Since 70 per cent of
young offenders come from one-parent families and a third of all prisoners come
from families so dysfunctional they were taken into care by the state, family
structure is not something the state can afford to ignore.

The erosion of family structures has been accompanied by a similar libertarian
assault from the economic right. Under the rhetoric of free markets delivering
mass prosperity, a rentier state has developed that has concentrated wealth and
stripped millions of ordinary Britons of their capital, denying them a path to
assets, ownership and trade.

The bottom 50 per cent of the British population had 12 per cent of liquid
wealth, excluding property, in 1976. By 2003, that share had fallen to one per
cent, shutting the path to prosperity for those at the bottom. An OECD survey in
2010 found that Britain has the highest correlation between parental income and
outcomes for children, and therefore the lowest rate of social mobility in the
developed world.

From the perspective of those who rioted, perhaps the most evident indication of
how the game has moved against them is migration. Thirty years ago unskilled
working-class kids could at least get jobs in shops or factories. Today these
youths have lost out to new migrants - an astounding 99.9 per cent of the rise
of employment (not jobs) in Labour years is accounted for by foreignborn
workers.

In conclusion, the rioters are shamefully emblematic of modern Britain. Their
values have striking parallels with Britain's current elite - not least because
the creation of a morally denuded and economically marooned class at the bottom
of society is the outcome of an elite that has embraced self-serving economics
and the value system that endorses it: libertarianism under the guise of
liberalism.

Phillip Blond is director of the thinktank ResPublica and author of R e d Tory:
How Left and Right have Broken Britain and How We Can Fix It.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              912 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Four face riot, assault charges in mall fight

BYLINE: Keith Epps, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


June 29--Four young men have been indicted in connection with a March 12 brawl
at the Spotsylvania Towne Centre that police claim was gang-related.

Antonio Curtis Navarro-Covert, 21, of Arlington and Jonathan Lee "JB" Smith, 23,
Robert Fitzgerald Reid and Kendrick Covert, 21, all of Spotsylvania, were
indicted this month by a special grand jury.

All are charged with street gang participation, inciting a riot, unlawful
assembly, participating in a riot and assault by mob.

Covert and Reid are also charged with malicious wounding, attempted malicious
wounding and destruction of property.

All four were served warrants this week, and three have arraignments set for
July 12.

The March 12 ruckus at the mall ended up on a YouTube video.

It showed a group of young men throwing punches, grabbing one another, assuming
fighting positions and shouting expletives.

At one point, a chair is tossed down a corridor, and a woman shouts, "Oh, my
God!"

Commonwealth's Attorney Bill Neely said the brawl involved members of two gangs,
the Bloods and the Goon Squad. Someone shouted "Goon Squad in the house" during
the incident.

Neely said members of the local gang task force viewed the video and were able
to identify some of the combatants.

No one was seriously injured in the altercation, but Neely said a store clerk
was cut by glass that was broken during the exchange.

The special grand jury heard evidence in secret before handing up the
indictments.

Keith Epps: 540/374-5404

Email: kepps@freelancestar.com

To see more of The Free Lance-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://fredericksburg.com/flshome. Copyright (c) 2011, The Free Lance-Star,
Fredericksburg, Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110629-FB-Four-face-riot-assault-charges-in-mall-fight-0629-20110629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2011 The Free Lance-Star


                              913 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Cornishman

                               February 25, 2010

I predict a riot;
An acclaimed Cornish playwright's version of what happened during Newlyn's
'Sabbath Riots' of 1896 comes to the port tomorrow.

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 170  words


Nick Darke's The Riot, produced by the Hookline Theatre Company for the Darke
Visions Festival, can be seen at The Centre, Newlyn, from 7.30pm.

The 'Sabbath Riots' were sparked when local fishermen demonstrated violently
against the Sunday fishing fleet from Lowestoft.

The late Nick Darke, speaking before the play's original production, said: "I've
always wanted to write about the riots, but what interested me was not so much
what actually happened but the idea of responsibility.

"So I wrote about a fat cat businessman who has too much power in a small
Cornish fishing community... the community are very poor, but who should they
blame for their suffering? Where does the buck stop?"

Involving a collaboration with Tintagel Orpheus Male Voice Choir, Hookline
Theatre promise a riotous evening which comes with a warning of strong language.

Tickets are priced £5 for adults (concessions £2.50) and can be reserved by
e-mailing   hookline@rocketmail.com or by contacting the Keay box office
(Mon-Fri 10-12) on 01726 226777.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 60


                         Copyright 2010 The Cornishman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              914 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Riot sentence date delayed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 91 words


SENTENCING of a Warilla man involved in the Cronulla riots has been adjourned,
eight months after police charged him.

Craig Patrick Sala, 21, appeared in Sutherland Local Court yesterday.

In September, Sala pleaded guilty to participating in a race riot at Cronulla on
December 11, 2005. He had earlier pleaded guilty to affray but had denied the
riot charge.

Sala was the first man to give himself up when police released photographs of 20
suspects in March. The case was adjourned to November 23 while an amended
statement of police facts is finalised.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              915 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 15, 2005 Monday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

THE BIRTH OF THE HUSTLE

BYLINE: BY STANLEY CROUCH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 555 words


Forty years ago this month, the black community of Los Angeles, which was
nationally called Watts, blew up and a riot spread over 40 square miles. It was
especially hot in 1965, and the Los Angeles Police Department had done its best
to earn the hatred of its nonwhite communities.

So when word went out - incorrectly - that there had been an attempted arrest
and that the cops had gone so far as to beat the black man, his wife and his
mother, the community began to unhinge. Bottles and bricks were thrown at cars
carrying whites. The police chief, the legendary William Parker, said on TV that
the people in Watts were "acting like monkeys in a zoo." Hmm.

Maybe that triggered the overflow of violence. Perhaps not, because the people
who moved through the community encouraging a riot were not residents. No one
knew who they were then, and no one knows who they were now. As the riot reached
its highest flame, there were Negro thugs who thought that they were going to
move on up north and take the capital of California! Delusions ran as deep as
the bitterness of the poor, which led to white-owned businesses being burned
out. When things got completely wound up, all businesses were looted and burned
and that was that.

Thirty-four people were killed. National Guardsmen rode through the community in
Jeeps mounted with .50-caliber machine guns. An army of rioters was arrested,
and explanations began that helped establish the race hustle that has maintained
itself these last four decades.

What we saw in the rise of the race hustler was the one who speaks for "the
people" and always has a program intended to reestablish in the souls of black
folks all of the things that were lost during the travail of slavery and in the
humiliations of segregation and racism. These hustlers, some in African robes,
others in combat fatigues, still others in suits, had mouths full of theories
about what would definitely uplift the Negro. True to what has become a
sustained form, they provided very little of substance, but they had an ever
ready sense of how vulnerable the white and the black people were to the race
con, which became a bigger commodity over the years than rap.

One of the most repulsive examples of the fact that race hustling has become a
nationwide phenomenon since 1965 was shown in the Tawana Brawley case.

Doubtless in these decades there have been many people willing and able to work
on difficult things that take time, such as education. But little was really
done that helped the community of Los Angeles, which cannot be said to be better
off now than it was 40 years ago.

It is now overrun by murderous street gangs; 40% of the murders in the city take
place among black people; more than half of the adults are unemployed, and too
many black high school seniors read and do math on an eighth-grade level. Beyond
that, many of the businesses that were burned down in 1965 have not been
replaced. Empty lots meet the eye.

For many, optimism may have burned to the ground as well, but it seems that what
we need now is to stockpile all of the information drawn from every successful
program in public education, employment, and community development so that an
actual model for the future can be imagined that will not end up in a dark room
with all of the candles blown out by hot air.

scrouch@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arrests in 1965 riot spawned decades of characters ready to spout the
words but not do the work.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN; OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2005 Daily News, L.P.


                              916 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   Iran Daily

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

Brazil prison hostage standoff ends, guards freed

LENGTH: 252  words


A riot and hostage standoff in a prison in Brazil has come to an end following
the release of 10 captive guards by the rioting inmates.

Local authorities announced Wednesday that the "rebellion" came to a conclusion
after the demand of the rioting inmates that they be transferred to other
detention facilities was met.

According to a spokesman for the Parana state's justice secretary, 28 inmates
involved in the prison riot would be moved from Guarapuava jail to alternative
facilities in the region, Press TV reported.

The development came after local media outlets broadcast television images of
the inmates holding the prison guards on the roof of the jail facilities while
stripping them of their clothing.

The prisoners reportedly overpowered and seized 13 guards during a riot that
began on Monday. Three of the seized jail guards, however, were set free
immediately afterward.

This is while at least five inmates and one of the prison guards were reported
to have suffered injuries during the riot, which began when the inmates were
being transferred to a construction site to perform building tasks.

The riot took place at a prison that holds 240 inmates and allows them to study
and participate in work projects.

According to prison authorities, the riot was the first since the facility
opened nearly 15 years ago.

Prison riots are relatively common in this largest Latin American country, which
has the world's fourth largest prison population - 500,000 inmates in jails that
are designed to hold only 300,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1056


                 Copyright 2014 Iran Cultural & Press Institute
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              917 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                November 3, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

180 LAGS IN PRISON RIOT;
Rampage warnings for weeks say officers

BYLINE: Keir Mudie ;Virginia Newman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 250 words


UP to 180 foreign inmates were believed to be involved in a prison riot last
night.

About 40 convicts started what is thought to be a preplanned attack on warders
as they were being locked in their cells at HMP Maidstone, Kent.

Officers on the jail's Thanet wing, which houses only foreigners, had to flee
before specially trained Tornado teams - guards taught how to han-dle extreme
situations - were rushed into end the violence.

The riot came after weeks of warnings that there was unrest among the 600
inmates at the Category C prison due to Government cutbacks.

And last night its governor, Dave Atkinson, came under criticism from union
bosses for continuing to allow the public in for visits while one of its wings
was in lockdown.

Pete McParlin, national chairman of the Prison Officers' Association, said the
riot was due to a lack of guards and the transfer of 300 inmates from a unit for
overseas criminals at nearby Canterbury which had closed. He said: "It's a
recipe for violence."

The vice-chairman of the POA, Ralf Valerio, said he was shocked the governor had
allowed members of the public to continue visiting relatives as the riot was
going on.

A Prison Service spokeswoman said the riot stopped at 6.30pm and there was no
immediate evidence of damage.

She said: "An incident involving around 40 prisoners at HMP Maidstone has been
successfully resolved with no injuries.

"An investigation is underway and the perpetrators will be dealt with
appropriately by the prison."

keir.mudie@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Van going into jail last night
RIOT SQUAD: Officers at the prison yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPL


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              918 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 5, 2007, Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Football: FANS FEEL THE HEAT IN BATTLE OF ROME;
Riot police on offensive as tempers flare

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 193 words


ROMA 2

MAN UNITED 1

MANCHESTER UNITED supporters had been warned by their club earlier this week to
expect a hostile environment in last night's Champions League showdown in Rome -
and that is exactly what they got.

Italian riot police showed little mercy towards United fans during the
quarter-final first leg.

Roma won 2-1 but the match was overshadowed by events off the field.

Rival fans exchanged missiles before and during the game but it was only the
visiting fans that were punished.

Riot police were only positioned in the enclosure reserved for visiting fans and
lined up in an attack formation once tension began to build.

Crowd unrest increased once Roma took the lead shortly before half-time, and
United fans retaliated against the verbal provocation of home supporters by
throwing missiles at them.

Riot police were quick to use their batons, striking United fans repeatedly.

Once Wayne Rooney equalised for United the visiting fans were at the receiving
end of missiles.

United fans were also hit by several missiles once the game was over.

The English supporters were made to wait for two hours before they could be
escorted by riot police to their buses

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FORCEFUL: Heavy-handed Italian riot police try to restore order
(above). United fans were taunted by Roma supporters (left)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              919 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                             Extended Metro Edition

Cronulla riot report rejected by Moroney

BYLINE: SIMON BENSON, KARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428  words


POLICE have botched an internal review into the Cronulla race riots with
Commissioner Ken Moroney to reject a draft report because senior commanders were
not interviewed.

Mr Moroney last night confirmed he was not satisfied with the report, which
criticises senior police management and the lack of equipment given to frontline
officers to deal with rioters.

It is the second time the poor supply of equipment has been highlighted in a
riot report, with a similar criticism made of the response to the Redfern riots
almost two years before.

Senior police sources also told The Daily Telegraph the report reveals

a ''breakdown'' in communication

resulted in police failing to intercept a convoy of Middle Eastern youths
travelling to beach suburbs on the night after the December 11 riots last year.

That failure helped fuel the violent revenge attacks that followed.

Police Minister Carl Scully -- who has been accused of sitting on the report --
last night confirmed a draft had been handed to him.

''It puts under the microscope the performance of senior police in managing what
was a very volatile situation and whether their planning was sufficient to
effectively tackle the situation,'' Mr Scully said.

''The report examines whether or not there was adequate equipment available to
frontline police and whether or not it was effectively utilised.''

The much-anticipated riot report was due in August.

In a statement last night, Mr Moroney confirmed he was given a draft of the
report before he went on an overseas study trip three weeks ago.

''I am not satisfied the report process has been finalised,'' Mr Moroney said.

''I've asked the report's author [former assistant commissioner Norm Hazzard] to
conduct further consultation with senior commanders.''

Mr Scully said he would discuss the report with Mr Moroney on his return on
Monday. The report would then be officially released.

The Daily Telegraph understands the report is not likely to be as critical of
the police response to the Cronulla riots as the response to the Redfern or
Macquarie Fields riots.

However, the possibility that more police could have been put on the ground
earlier on the day of the riots is likely to be raised.

The failure of police to shut down bottleshops in the area while alcohol-fuelled
violence got out of control is likely to come under fire.

Also coming in for some criticism is the police command's handling of the
following night's retribution attacks in Maroubra and Brighton-le-Sands.

Claims of political interference and confusion over who was in command is
further likely to be raised.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              920 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Dhule riots commission gets a new head after 17 months

BYLINE: express news service

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


Nearly 17 months after the previous head of the Dhule riots panel resigned, the
state government has appointed retired Bombay High Court judge K U Chandiwal to
head the commission. Chandiwal has been given a six-month tenure to complete his
findings.

In September 2014, former High Court judge Shrikant Malte, who was appointed by
the state government to probe the January 2013 Dhule riots in which six Muslims
lost their lives, resigned from his post. Malte is reported to have felt
humiliated by words in the order granting the Commission an extension. The
state, in its letter, had pointed to delays in the functioning of the commission
and also said that this was the last extension that the government was
providing.

The Maharashtra government had appointed the judicial commission in March 2013
after riots broke out in the north Maharashtra town of Dhule in January that
year.

Malte was to probe the cause of riots as well as ascertain whether there were
police excesses. Six people were killed, all falling to police bullets, on
January 6 after riots broke out in Dhule. Local Muslims had complained of police
excesses and claimed that policemen had deliberately shot to kill Muslim youths.

Lawyers involved with the functioning of the commission had in 2014 claimed that
there was still a lot of work left for the commission to do. "I would say that
so far we have managed to complete only 25 per cent of the total mandated work
given to the commission," a lawyer associated with the commission had said on
Malte's resignation.

"We have come to know that the new commission has been appointed. We hope that
it will ensure that those who lost their lives and property get justice," former
Minority Commission member and secretary of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind's legal aid
committee Gulzar Azmi said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              921 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                              July 6, 2015 Monday

Nitish, Lalu has toxic relations with Muslims, Dalits: Pappu Yadav

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, July 6 -- Jan Kranti Adhikar Morcha (JKAM) leader Pappu Yadav on
Sunday said that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Rashtriya Janata Dal
(RJD) chief Lalu Yadav have toxic relations with the Muslims and Dalits of the
state.

Highlighting the way Muslims have been targeted in the Bhagalpur riots by Lalu
Prasad, Yadav said: "Lalu Yadav had earlier said that RSS is the best
orgnisation. And he had said in this very Lok Sabha that Bhagalpur riots
happened due to muslims... Nitish Kumar has spent on more than 11 crore schemes
but no one has bothered to pay compensation to the riot victims' families."

"Lalu Yadav and Nitish Kumar Lalu are involved in all the riots happened in
Bihar. They have toxic relations with Muslims and Dalits. They are the biggest
enemies of the backward classes. I demand investigation against both of them,
including what Lalu Prasad had told to Ashok Singhal about muslims' involvement
in the riots. The CBI should immediately investigate the cases," he added.

Pappu Yadav further said that when he comes to power, he would give the affected
families of the riots their due rights.

With the Bihar Assembly elections scheduled to take place later this year,
Purnea MP Pappu Yadav, after getting expelled from RJD in May, has wasted no
time to set up his own Jan Adhikar Party.

His immediate goal is to field as many as 150 candidates in Bihar election.

Yadav may join hands with former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's
Hindustani Awam Morcha, or even with BJP if the saffron party accepts him as
partner.

Known as a formidable political force in Bihar's Seemanchal region, Pappu
Yadav's solitary aim is to scuttle Lalu Prasad's rise.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              922 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

EC Questions Government on Compensation to '84 Riot Victims

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Nov. 1 -- The Election Commission(EC) on Friday questioned the
decision of the Centre to give fresh compensation of Rs five lakh to the 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims at a time when the Model Code of Conduct is in force in
Delhi because of the upcoming bypolls.Sources said that the EC has asked the
Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to explain its decision by November 3. In a
letter to the Home Ministry, the Commission pointed out that the Model Code is
in force in Delhi, where bypolls are to be held in three Assembly seats -
Krishna Nagar, Mehrauli and Tughlaqabad --on November 25. These Assembly seats
fell vacant after the MLAs got elected to the Lok Sabha in general elections in
May.

The Centre had on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of
victims, who were killed during the 1984 riots. This compensation to families of
the riot victims will be in addition to the ex-gratia payment earlier announced
by the government or other agencies. The decision will cost the exchequer Rs 166
crore.

As per records, nearly 3,325 people were killed in the communal riots triggered
by the assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984 by her Sikh
bodyguards, Beant Singh and Satwant Singh. Of 3,325 killed in the riots, 2,733
were residents of Delhi while others belonged to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra and other states.

The order for distributing compensation was issued by Home Minister Rajnath
Singh. The decision was taken after a high-level meeting where the issue of
compensation to civilian victims of communal, terrorist or Naxal violence was
discussed.

Apart from this, the government during the meeting enhanced the compensation to
civilian victims of communal, terrorist or Naxal violence from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5
lakh.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              923 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday

Keene State officials vow to punish riot perpetrators

BYLINE: Steve Gilbert, The Keene Sentinel, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 949 words


Oct. 21--A somber mood permeated the Keene State College campus Monday, as
students, staff and administrators continued to digest the fallout from
Saturday's riots in the nearby neighborhoods.

Authorities are reviewing campus security measures taken before the Keene
Pumpkin Festival, and assessing what can be done moving forward. They are also
putting an emphasis on identifying instigators in the riots, in an effort to
prosecute them.

In a news conference that included Keene city officials and police Monday, Keene
State President Anne E. Huot said college officials are studying photographs and
other evidence of students involved in the melee. She vowed that any Keene State
student found culpable of illegal doings will be punished.

"I want to reassure everyone that we are looking hard at the evidence we have,"
said Huot, who added she witnessed the riots firsthand Saturday.

"We have already identified some people from photographs; we are now trying to
ascertain where they are from," she said. "And if they are from Keene State
College, they are going to go through an expedited judicial process through our
student code of conduct and they will be appropriately sanctioned up to and
including dismissal from the college."

Huot said it was too early to tell just how many Keene State students actively
took part in illegal activities.

Huot said if suspects in the riots are found to be students at other
universities, Keene State will share that evidence with officials from those
colleges. She said she talked to University of New Hampshire President Mark
Huddleston Monday morning, as well as an official at Plymouth State University.

She said Huddleston promised that UNH students found to be involved in the riots
would be held accountable, and expected many colleges and universities from
across New England will do likewise.

Pushback also came from Keene State students themselves Monday.

Amanda Guthorn, director of campus safety at Keene State, said many are angry
about the way they are being portrayed, and want perpetrators caught. A
campus-wide "silent witness" email account allows students to present evidence
of wrongdoers; Guthorn said as of Monday afternoon she's already received more
than 50 tips from students.

"Some name them, others are putting photos up," Guthorn said. "They are
embarrassed that this has happened and they tell us, 'we appreciate what you've
done.' "

Guthorn said that for all the Keene State students who were on the streets, many
more were holed up in their dorm rooms, unnerved by what they were seeing.

Damage on campus was minimal, she said. Some light poles were pulled out, and
the vehicle that was overturned by rioters Saturday night after the festival
happened in a commuter parking lot. "Overall damage on campus was fairly light,"
Guthorn said. "The residence halls fared not too badly, all things considered."

Keene Mayor Kendall W. Lane said extensive collaboration between the city and
the college went into security plans for Saturday, including walking the
neighborhoods surrounding the college street-by-street beforehand. For instance,
Lane said police even pointed out where a fence needed to be reinforced.

"What got lost is the amount of preparation that went into this," Lane said. "We
walked the area thoroughly and tried to prepare on the ground for what might
happen."

Lane said the sheer number of people who took to the streets overwhelmed
authorities.

Keene State itself has 15 full-time security staff members, and they all rotated
on shifts throughout the weekend. Six officers from UNH and a transport vehicle
from the Durham campus were also brought in. That practice that began six years
ago, when rowdiness started to seep onto the fringes of the festival, Guthorn
said.

Professors and staff members at Keene State say students were sternly warned
beforehand not to engage in drunken parties during the Pumpkin Festival. Most
professors brought up the subject in their classrooms, Huot said, and many said
Monday they were dismayed by what happened.

Coaches of Keene State's athletic teams said they told their players to avoid
putting themselves in positions where trouble could find them. Ken Howe, coach
of the baseball team for 27 years and a lifelong Keene resident, witnessed the
rioting for hours while waiting to pick his wife and son up from work at The Pub
restaurant on Winchester Street.

He said he felt like he was in the middle of the Running of the Bulls.

"It was shocking and amazing, the things that were going on," Howe said. "Video
doesn't do it justice. It's a sad state of affairs when a good event like that
turns out into what it was."

At one point, Howe spotted a couple of his players on the streets and ordered
them to get out of the area. But Howe added many Keene State students were
probably there out of curiosity.

Basketball coaches Rob Colbert (men) and Keith Boucher (women) said the entire
coaching fraternity at Keene State urged their players to stay away. About the
only good that's come out of it, Colbert said, is how so many students have
since banded together.

"It makes me proud that the kids have ownership in their school," he said.

Huot said all factions of the city have to work together to come up with
solutions in the future.

"I am gravely concerned about the unruly, unacceptable, unlawful, disturbing
behavior that was displayed on the streets of our city on Saturday," she said at
the news conference. "We have to come together as a community and find a mutual
solution to these issues. We cannot solve it individually or on our own."

___ (c)2014 The Keene Sentinel (Keene, N.H.) Visit The Keene Sentinel (Keene,
N.H.) at www.sentinelsource.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141021-KN-Keene-State-officials-vow-to-punish-riot
-perpetrators-1021-20141021

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KN


                                 Copyright 2014


                              924 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Pictures from the 1973 McAlester Prison Riot

BYLINE: Graham Lee Brewer

SECTION:

LENGTH: 265 words


I was digging through the Oklahoman archives not too long ago looking for
pictures from the 1973 McAlester Prison Riot (yeah, that's what I do in my free
time. I'm a nerd), and I came across some really impressive photos.

The riot lasted three days, with inmates taking control of several buildings in
the&nbsp;maximum security facility.

The riot was the most destructive and costly in the state's history.

In the end, two dozen buildings were destroyed. The estimated costs of the
damages was over $20 million.

Three inmates also died over the course of the riot. However, this Oklahoman
article from 1973 suggests there may have been four total deaths.

Several correctional officers were taken hostage, and inmates and police had
tense negotiations for their release.

Negotiations took place in the rotunda of the prison, which must have been a
surreal set of circumstances.

The hostages were released unharmed within 24 hours of the start of the riot,
which blazed on for two more days.

Oklahoma Watch did a great article last July for the 40th anniversary of the
riot, which includes an interview with Lionel Johnson, who was one of the
hostages. The Oklahoman's Phil O'Connor interviewed our managing editor, Mike
Shannon, about covering the riot as a young reporter.

And, I just love this photo of officers resting on the warden's front lawn,
which is directly across from the prison's front door. Look at those Pepsi
cans!For some more incredible pictures of those intense few days check out this
Denver Post story. The Oklahoma History Society has a little more info on the
riot online, as well.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              925 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             London Community News

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                  ONT Edition

Police promise prompt riot updates

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 220  words


London police are asking for patience from the public as they continue to
investigate the Fleming Drive riot.

Twenty investigators are combing through video and photographs from social media
and other sources to identify people committing offences during the riot and
more charges are expected in the coming days and weeks.

Police stated in a media release that this is a "tedious and time-consuming
process" and although they recognize media and public interest in the
investigation, "those interests must be balanced with a methodical investigation
that will result in the conviction of those involved."

"It should be noted that offenders are still being identified from the Vancouver
riot on June 15, 2011," police stated in the release.

They added that, along with the riot investigation, police still have other
responsibilities in the community.

Once police identify someone committing a criminal act during the riot through a
video or photograph, that person will be located and charged.

Photographs of people who cannot be identified will be made available to the
public through the London Police Service website at www.police.london.ca.

Members of the public may then email tips@police.london.ca to forward
information and/or attachments or call 519-660-5842 for telephone tips.Follow us
on Facebook: London Community News

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              926 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

YOB'S POUNDS 200K 'RIOT HAUL';
TEEN TO GO ON TRIAL OVER MALL LOOTING

BYLINE: TOM PETTIFOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 373 words


A TEENAGER is to go on trial accused of stealing pounds 200,000 worth of
designer gear during the summer riots.

Adrian Nnamdi, 18, is accused of smashing his way into a menswear store with a
hammer during the first night of violence.

The shelves were stripped of men's designer jeans, shirts, jackets, sunglasses
and shoes made by brands including Armani, Versace, Ted Baker, Stone Island,
Moschino and Ray-Ban.

Nnamdi denies stealing up to pounds 200,000 worth of clothing from Hype in Wood
Green, North London, and contributing to another pounds 100,000 of riot damage.

He further denies raiding fashion store Mush and A & C Jewellers, which had a
pounds 60,000 riot bill.

The violence spread to Wood Green hours after the first night of rioting broke
out two miles away in Tottenham following the fatal shooting of Mark Duggan by
police.

SPRINTED

Nnamdi is accused of being among 100 youths who sprinted around the area
targeting game shops, electrical stores, designer stores and jewellers.

He pleaded not guilty on December 15 to three counts of burglary at The Mall
Wood Green after being arrested by Operation Withern officers investigating the
violence. Another man was arrested in connection with the shop raids at the mall
but was later discounted from the investigation.

Nnamdi, who lives with his mother, appeared in court for a second time last
Friday wearing a black North Face sleeveless puffa jacket and black trousers. He
spoke only to confirm his name and address during the threeminute hearing at
Highbury Corner magistrates court in North London.

He was granted bail by magistrate James Henderson on condition he abides by a
daily 7pm to 7am curfew.

Nnamdi's case was committed to Wood Green crown court where he is due for trial
on February 10.

Meanwhile, one of the country's leading prosecutors has defended the stiff
sentences given to hundreds of the rioters.

Alison Saunders, head of the Crown Prosecution Service in London, said the
sentences were "entirely in line" with guidelines given to judges and
magistrates.

She said: "This was sheer lawlessness on a large scale. That was a massive
aggravating feature - the prosecutions were right."

The CPS in London has prosecuted 1,371 people so far and 610 are awaiting
hearings.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ll n August 7 Doors were smashed at the North London mall and shops
including a jewellers and two fashion stores were raided on first night of the
riots RIOT CHARGE Nnamdi is accused of raids

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              928 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Man jailed for riots call;
AROUND THE GLOBE - BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 114 words


LONDON. A man has been jailed for setting up a Facebook event inciting violent
disorder during Britain's riots. Jamie Counsel created a page - "Bring Riots to
Cardiff" - on the social networking site on August 9. The page was later changed
to "Bring the Riots to Swansea". He pleaded guilty in September to what
prosecutors said was an act that could have encouraged disorder, although no
disorder ensued. The 25-year-old from Cardiff, Wales, was sentenced in Cardiff
Crown Court on Wednesday to four years' jail. Two others, Jordan Blackshaw, 20,
and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, were given similar sentences at Chester Crown
Court in August, also for trying to start a riot on Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              929 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Riots over new Greek cuts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 213 words


A GENERAL strike disrupted services across Greece and riots erupted outside
parliament yesterday as demonstrators protested about more taxes and spending
cuts essential for the country to receive critical bailout funds that will
prevent an economic crisis.

Inside parliament, lawmakers debated new austerity measures which must be passed
this week if Greece's creditors are to release the next EUR12 billion batch of
the country's EUR110 billion bailout - and prevent a default that could drag
down European banks and shake the European and world economy.

The strike halted nearly all public transport and brought public services to a
standstill.

A peaceful protest by about 20,000 people quickly degenerated into violence,
with riot police firing volleys of tear gas and stun grenades to keep back
hooded youths pelting them with thousands of chunks of ripped up paving stones
and marble.

Police said 18 people were detained during the riots, with five of them later
arrested. At least 21 policemen were injured.

The riots came as the European Commission insisted if Greece did not vote for
more austerity there was no more bailout money.

EU Economics Commissioner Olli Rehn said: "The only way to avoid immediate
default is for parliament to endorse the revised economic programme."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET BATTLE: Riot police arrest demonstrators during a demo in Athens
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              930 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

Plan likely called for about 300 officers on street duty during finals

BYLINE: MARK HUME

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; THE VANCOUVER RIOTS / POLICING; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department has refused to say how many officers were on
duty the night of the Stanley Cup riot, but administrative reports filed with
city council and the Vancouver Police Board suggest the initial plan was to have
about 300 in the street.

That thin blue line, which initially was unable to control the riot, included a
100-member RCMP tactical troop and 100 members of the VPD crowd-control unit,
two groups specially trained in riot response.

As the crowd unrest escalated, after Vancouver's loss to Boston in Game 7, the
VPD called in additional support from outlying communities, but the number of
officers who rushed in to help quell the unrest hasn't been released.

What is clear is that by the time the backup arrived, a full-blown riot had
erupted, leading to devastating property damage in the city core.

VPD Chief Jim Chu has declined to confirm the size of the force patrolling for
Game 7, except to say: "There were hundreds of officers deployed and hundreds
more were brought in later on."

But in a presentation to city council in March, Chief Chu said he was aiming for
about the same level of policing used by Calgary in 2004, and Edmonton in 2006,
when those cities played host to games in Stanley Cup finals.

"Both cities deployed enormous police resources into the areas of these
celebrations and were able to maintain reasonable control of the situation,"
Chief Chu's report stated.

"During the 2004 playoff run, the Calgary Police Service deployed their members
in a manner similar to what we have done in past years and are proposing to use
this year. They deployed significant resources increasing in size for each
round. [Calgary] peaked at deploying approximately 350 members during the
Stanley Cup finals. ... Edmonton also followed this deployment model and peaked
at about 300 members for the finals," the report stated.

"With our local experience of crowd behaviour and building on the experience of
both Calgary and Edmonton, it is clear that we must deploy police resources to
provide safety and security to those citizens that attend ... while dealing
swiftly with those who are intent on causing problems," the chief's report
stated, but it did not say just how many officers would be needed in Vancouver.

In April last year, Inspector Rick McKenna of the VPD's emergency and
operational planning section filed a report with the police board, estimating
the total bill for policing the 2010 playoffs at $968,232.

According to that plan, if the Canucks had gone the distance in the final, as
they did this year, the VPD would have wanted to assign 323 officers for each of
the four games.

That number would have included 100 RCMP tactical troop members, 100 VPD
crowd-control-unit officers, 36 members on downtown foot patrol, 14 bike-squad
members and an assortment of others in traffic, communications and
investigations. There would have been 16 sergeants and three inspectors on duty.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              931 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday

Ugandan minister to issue statement on riot suspects in House 23 September

LENGTH: 480 words


Text of report by Joyce Namutebi entitled "Government screens riot suspects"
published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision website
on 23 September

Screening of persons arrested during the recent riots in Kampala is under way
and the innocent will be released, internal affairs state minister Matia Kasaija
said yesterday.

"Those found to have no connection whatsoever with the riots will be released,"
he told parliament.

He was responding to a request by the Kabarole District Woman MP, Margaret
Muhanga, to help trace 18-year-old Hope Stephen from Humura village in Burahya
constituency.

She said Stephen is believed to have been rounded up in the riots in Kampala and
his whereabouts are unknown. Muhanga said the boy's mother, a councillor, had
approached her to help trace the boy.

The riots rocked Kampala, its suburbs and a few towns in Buganda for three days
after the Police stopped the kingdom's prime minister from travelling to Kayunga
to prepare for the Kabaka's visit, citing security reasons.

Last week, the MPs demanded a full list of the victims of the two day riots.

Kasaija, who said he has the list, added: "We know where each person is, if at
all he is in the hands of the Police." Kasaija said innocent individuals who had
already been charged were likely to be released. He apologised for the
inconvenience which innocent people suffered.

The minister is expected to present a statement to parliament on the riot
victims today.

Meanwhile, Parliament yesterday ended prematurely after opposition MPs walked
out before debate on the Appropriation Bill of 2009.

Leader of opposition Prof Morris Ogenga Latigo said his side was contesting the
6.5bn shillings budgeted for patriotism promotion, the 10bn shillings for the
presidential banana initiative, the 4bn shillings for Kampala International
University, which belongs to tycoon Hassan Basajjabalaba, and the 1.73bn
shillings for the construction of a market in Juba, Southern Sudan. It was the
second walkout by the opposition for the same reasons.

Before adjourning the House, Ssekandi said: "We should teach ourselves
tolerance. If you are defeated, you continue carrying out your work." Prof.
Ephraim Kamuntu, the state minister for planning, condemned the walkout. He said
the budget was beneficial to the whole country.

Addressing journalists later, Latigo said: "We have given the NRM the space they
need. They can use the numbers they have and let the Ugandan public see."

He said the opposition wanted 3.5bn shillings of the amount allocated to Kampala
International University to be given to Mbarara University and the patriotism
money be used to pay teachers.

"Patriotism money is about the 2011 elections," Latigo asserted.

Aruu MP Odonga Otto (FDC) said he had been instructed by Latigo to sue the
Government over the matter.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 23 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              932 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

Amarinder's remark insult to anti-Sikh riot victims: Phoolka

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


Chandigarh, Nov. 22 -- Lawyer and crusader for justice to anti-Sikh riots'
victims, H S Phoolka on Saturday said Congress leader Amarinder Singh's remark
against him was an insult to the victims of the 1984 carnage.

Phoolka also charged the former Punjab Chief Minister with speaking in favour of
anti-Sikh riots accused Jagdish Tytler and Kamal Nath in order to grab the post
of Punjab Congress president.

"Amarinder has leveled an allegation against me that I have been making false
statements pertaining to 1984 riots to grab the headlines in newspapers. By
saying so, Amarinder has insulted the victims of anti-Sikh riots," Phoolka said
while addressing media.

"Before making such allegations, you must have thought about the victims who
have been fighting their cases for so long," said Phoolka, who had resigned from
all posts held in Aam Aadmi Party in September but remains a member.

On November 19, Phoolka had demanded that former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi be
stripped of Bharat Ratna award as he had "justified" the killings in the over
three-decade old riots.

Rejecting the charge, Amarinder had said he did not take his demands seriously.
"He (Phoolka) has been raising such things to get in the news for the last 31
years," Amarinder had said.

Phoolka alleged that Amarinder in an interview to a newspaper in May 2010 had
said that Jagdish Tytler and Kamal Nath were wrongly implicated in anti-Sikh
riot case.

"A leader like you, who became Chief Minister, MLA... does not have the time to
meet the victims of anti-sikh riots and is giving clean chit to Jagdish Tytler
and Kamal Nath (in anti-Sikh riot cases) just to get the post of PPCC Chief," he
said.

He also asked Amarinder to prove that a video of Rajiv Gandhi's speech delivered
on November 19, 1984 at Boat Club on Indira Gandhi's birth anniversary was not
authentic.

In the video grab which was shown to media here today, Gandhi was purportedly
seen saying, "when the big tree falls, the earth shakes", an apparent reference
to the anti-Sikh riots.

Phoolka, who unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Ludhiana,
asked Amarinder to prove that he (Phoolka) had given wrong statements and that
Jagdish Tytler was wrongly implicated, within 15 days. "Otherwise, I will
intensify my campaign against him," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              933 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 10, 2004 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Police grab riot robbery suspect

BYLINE: Debra Jopson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


Sydney police yesterday arrested the man they were seeking the day teenager
Thomas "TJ" Hickey was fatally impaled on a metal fence, sparking last month's
Redfern riot.

Police yesterday had to chase the man, 25, who was riding a bicycle, a short
distance on foot before arresting him in connection with a bag-snatch robbery on
February 14, said Detective Inspector Darren Bennett, crime manager of Redfern
police.

The hunt for a man who was recorded on video camera snatching a bag near the
Redfern railway station the Saturday that 17-year-old TJ crashed his bike, is a
key point of conflict between local Aborigines and police.

TJ's family alleged that police chased him to his death. Police denied this and
have used the search for the suspect to explain the high police presence around
the Redfern housing estate where TJ was killed.

"They were patrolling in the area for this person when the accident with Hickey
took place," Mr Bennett said. "They weren't chasing anyone. That was the person
they were looking for on this day."

The man was arrested as part of the police's Strike Force Time Piece, set up to
investigate the February 15 riot in which Aborigines hurled bricks and bottles
at police from the notorious Block area of Redfern.

A 20th person was arrested yesterday over the riot and Mr Bennett said that
"significant numbers" of further arrests were planned.

Police were proceeding carefully in a bid to "get people when they are
isolated," to avoid any further riots, he said. He described as speculation
reports that the riots were not a direct result of TJ's death, but a payback
organised by drug dealers for drug raids on the Block, with bricks stockpiled
well in advance.

There had been police "drug-related activity" and a number of arrests on the
Block in the days before the riot, Mr Bennett said. But he said police did not
know whether the riot had been planned before TJ's death.

"There's things that have come up in the course of the inquiry, including the
stockpiling of rocks and other things. That's subject to speculation and it's
formed part of our inquiry, but there's no conclusion yet."

TJ's aunt, Virginia Hickey, said there had been no stockpiling before the riot.
She said she had seen people going around the Block as the riot started,
gathering things out of the garbage to hurl at police.

At least five of those arrested were TJ's immediate family members and one young
woman was a close friend, she said.

"There would have been no riot if this accident hadn't occurred," Ms Hickey
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three photos: LEFT: The man police were hunting is recorded by a
security camera during a bag-snatch on February 14; ABOVE: Police line up
against Aborigines during the Redfern riot; RIGHT: Thomas ``TJ'' Hickey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              934 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                          September 30, 2003, Tuesday

Group to seek reparations for 1898 riot

BYLINE: Millard K. Ives, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 1B, 3B

LENGTH: 539 words


A Wilmington native has started an organization seeking to recover losses
incurred by the victims of the city's 1898 race riot.

Larry Thomas calls the group the International Organization for Compensation and
Reparations for the Wilmington Victims of 1898.

Mr. Thomas, 53, is organizing a meeting in Wilmington that will include
participation by members of the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations.
The meeting will be held one day before this year's anniversary of the Nov. 10,
1898, incident.

The organization has started circulating petitions to gather signatures of
residents in favor of recovering the losses sustained by the victims of the
riots. The organization proposes to pass the proceeds to victims' descendants.

"When you had something stolen, you should have an avenue to get it back," Mr.
Thomas said.

He said the new organization would at some point apply for nonprofit status.

During the riot, mobs of white men killed several blacks, ran dozens of black
leaders and their white Republican allies out of town and burned black
businesses - including the city's black-owned newspaper. The rioting essentially
ousted the existing biracial elected city government, causing some to call the
incident more of a coup d'etat than a race riot. Politics as well as economics
and racism have been cited as the cause.

The 1898 Wilmington Race Riot Commission, a group of state and local officials,
is currently studying the 1898 incident to write the state's official version of
what happened.

The commission was not put together to study the possibilities of reparations.
Still, Irv Joyner, chairman of the commission, said Monday that he thought some
type of compensation was a "great idea."

Mr. Joyner said many commission members favor the government making amends for
the 1898 incident. He said they would favor government-funded programs to
benefit blacks, such as economic development initiatives, scholarships and
history displays.

Kenneth Davis, also a member of the commission, said it would be too difficult
to identify the riot's victims and their families, as well as the perpetrators,
to try to seek any reparations.

Commission member Anthony Gentile also questioned the practicality of
determining who would pay whom and where the compensation would come from.
Lethia Hankins, co-chairwoman of the 1898 Memorial Park Foundation and a City
Council candidate, would like to see the incident made a part of the local
school curriculum.

This is not the first time talk has arisen concerning compensation for the
victims of the race riot and those run out of town.

In 1923, residents of a predominantly black community in Florida, called
Rosewood, were killed and forced to flee after a black man there was accused of
assaulting a white woman. In 1994, the Florida legislature decided to compensate
victims with a $ 2.1 million package.

Mr. Thomas said that while he's not sure how much success his group would have,
he's optimistic. "Rosewood proved that it could be done," he said.

Mr. Thomas now resides in Chapel Hill and is the founder and project director of
Larry Thomas and Associates Inc., a cultural arts organization dedicated to jazz
and Caribbean culture.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star-News file. Larry Thomas, author of aeThe True Story Behind the
Wilmington 10,AE testifies in August in front of the commission for the 1898
Wilmington Race Riot.

                            Copyright 2003 Star News


                              935 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday

Sikhs give Rahul 72 hrs to name Cong men involved in '84 riots

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Feb. 4 -- Scores of Sikh protesters led by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)
and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday held a protest
outside the residence of Congress Vice President, demanding revelation of names
of Congressmen who were allegedly involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

"We want Rahul Gandhi to reveal the names of those involved in 1984 anti-Sikh
riots. We have given him a 72-hour ultimatum after which we will protest outside
the Prime Minister's house," DSGMC President Manjit Singh GK said while
protesting with 200 people outside Gandhi's residence at

12 Tughlaq Lane.

In a recent interview to a news channel, Gandhi had said that "some Congressmen
were probably involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and they had been punished
for it".

The protesters raised anti-Congress slogans and held up black flags and
placards. "I have seen my son being killed. Why these police personnel did not
act when Sikhs were being massacred in 1984?" asked one of the riot victims.

The protesters also demanded ex-gratia relief, jobs and residential allowance
for riot victims. "In 2005, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had apologised for the
riots and promised an allowance of '715 crore. The ex-gratia in the case of

death, jobs and compensation for damaged property was also enhanced but we have
received no relief so far," said Kuldip Singh Bhogal, president, All India '84

Riot Victims Relief Committee.

On Delhi Government's decision to set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to
probe the riot cases, he said, "We have been demanding an SIT for the past 25
years. If Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is really with us, we

welcome him."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              936 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

UP govt reply in Apex Court contradicts Akhilesh claims

BYLINE: Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui & Ashish Tripathi

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 584 words


LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that there is
no parallel between Muzaffarnagar and Gujarat riots. The government has also
denied that the communal riots were linked to the three murders in Kawal town of
Muzaffarnagar. This, however, contradicts the repeated claims of Chief Minister
Akhilesh Yadav that a fake video clip circulated by BJP MLAs had triggered the
clashes.

The government's reply came in response to a PIL filed by activist Nutan Thakur,
who sought CBI probe into the riots by drawing parallels to the sequence of
events with 2002 Gujarat riots.

The affidavit has been filed by home secretary Kamal Saxena. UP is averse to CBI
probe into Muzaffarnagar riots.

The petitioner had alleged that government's failure to check events after
murder of youths escalated tension and eventually led to riots. Though the
government in its reply admitted that post-murder events took place, it said the
petitioner's perception was exaggerated.

The volte-face by the government lends credence to the allegations that the
riots -- in which 62 persons were killed and over 60,000 displaced -- were a
"fixed match" between the BJP and the SP government. The affidavit will also
help BJP MLA Sangeet Som to counter the criminal proceedings on the basis of
which National Security Act was slapped on him for uploading a fake video clip
of the Kawal murders itself.

The affidavit states: "The averments regarding escalation of tension with the
three deaths on 27.8.2013, in the light of certain events having allegedly taken
place earlier is the petitioner's own perception which do not warrant any
response." Nutan Thakur had mentioned in the petition that a number of incidents
had taken place before the riots broke out on September 7, 2013. She had
contested that despite a common link to all these incidents, the government
failed to initiate action strong enough to avert the riots.

In sharp contrast to the affidavit, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had not only
admitted that Kawal murders led to the riots but also warned those hatching a
conspiracy to destabilise the SP government by instigating communal violence.
"What happened in Muzaffarnagar is a well-thought out strategy," Akhilesh had
said in the state assembly on September 19, 2013. "One political party has tried
to draw political mileage. They used social media to trigger a riot," he had
alleged.

BJP MLA Sangeet Som has been charged with circulating a fake video online that
claimed to show the lynching of two Hindu Jat boys by a group of Muslims; it was
actually a video from Pakistan that was two years old, the CM had stated.

In his first post-riot visit to Muzaffarnagar on September 15, Akhilesh Yadav
had hit out at those who uploaded the fake video. He said, "Spreading such false
hatred inflicting videos was anti-national. Will have to find them and prosecute
them." In fact, the state government had repeatedly claimed that action was
initiated against Sangeet Som for spreading hatred by uploading a fake video and
claiming it to be the footage of the murder of two Hindu youths in Kawal on
August 27.

Regarding Thakur's contention that several sectarian and communal clashes have
occurred in UP since SP came to power, the affidavit states "UP, being one of
the largest stares of the country, has witnessed several events related to law
and order issues" and they were "inevitably and promptly dealt with". It further
states that the petitioner has not provided details of the action taken in
clashes.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              937 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                 March 28, 2003

INMATES TO SUE OVER RIOT 'TRAUMA'

SECTION: News; Other; Prisons; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 459 words


Thirty-two inmates caught up in the Lincoln Prison riot last October have
expressed their intention to make the claim.  The men involved were being held
in the vulnerable prisoners' unit when more than 150 inmates started a riot at
the jail in Greetwell Road, Lincoln.

The 20 prison officers on duty had retreated to the prison gates within 30
minutes, leaving the men locked in their cells for up to two hours.

Rioting inmates started several fires, raided the prison pharmacy and assaulted
a prison officer.

The riot lasted about eight hours and caused damage estimated at more than GBP 2
million to the prison's A, B and C wings.

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We can confirm that following last
October's riot a number of prisoners have expressed their intention to take
legal action against the prison service.

"We cannot comment further and will now be waiting to hear from the inmates'
legal representatives." Sills & Betteridge solicitors, of Silver Street,
Lincoln, are handling the case.

A spokesman for the firm said she was unable to comment on the case as it was at
an "early stage". She declined to say whether the firm's clients would be
applying for legal aid.

Juliet Lyon, director of the trust, said: "I think one of the questions that
must be asked over this riot and claim is how a settled prison like Lincoln
ended up with a riot and why the most vulnerable prisoners ended up being in
fear of their lives." Colin Moses, chairman of the Prison Officers' Association,
said yesterday that people needed to remember what officers had gone through
during the riot.

"While everyone has human rights, it must be remembered that this was a riotous
situation where two prison officers were almost taken hostage by inmates," he
said.

The claim by the Lincoln prisoners comes after similar action by inmates who
claimed for "stress and trauma" that they suffered during the Strangeways prison
riot in 1990.

Seven prisoners received an average of GBP 7,000 from the Prison Service after
claiming that they had endured sleepless nights and personality changes.

It was announced in February that a three-month investigation by the Prison
Service into the riot would not be made public.

Prisoner Lee Blake (37) was found dead in his cell the day after the riot. He
had taken a drugs overdose.

Thirty-one other prisoners were injured during the riots.

Earlier this month, Lincoln Prison was named the most overcrowded in Britain by
the Prison Reform Trust.

What do you think? Write to Your View at the Lincolnshire Echo, Brayford Wharf
East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT.

Alternatively, email yourview@lincolnshireecho.co.uk AFTERMATH: The scene of
devastation after last year's riot and (above) the Echo's front page report.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo


                              938 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

Prison riot inmate to change plea

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


Aug. 04--NATCHEZ -- The inmate who was set for trial Monday for his alleged part
in the May 2012 prison riot in Adams County that killed a guard is now expected
to change his initial "not guilty" plea next month.

Ernesto Lizama-Reynaga was originally set for trial Monday, but last week the
plans for the trial were scrapped and a change of plea hearing was scheduled.

Lizama-Reynaga's initial plea was entered in April.

Lizama-Reynaga's attorneys had previously sought a delay to the trial in order
to better prepare, but U.S. District Judge David Bramlette denied that request
in July.

According to previous court filings, Lizama-Reynaga was seen carrying weapons
and hitting the windows of the Adams County Correctional Center's central
command area during the riot.

Court filings also indicated the suspect was one of the inmates who participated
in the looting of the prison's kitchen and commissary.

Though more than a dozen inmates have been indicted in relation to the riot,
none of those who have been charged have yet been to trial. Several have
initially pleaded "not guilty" only to later change their pleas.

The correctional officer killed in the riot -- 24-year-old Catlin Carithers --
died of injuries received after inmates apparently bludgeoned him on the roof of
one of the prison's buildings as he and another officer were deploying gas
canisters in an attempt to control the insurrection, which lasted nine hours.

ACCC is a minimum-security federal immigration prison that is privately operated
by Corrections Corporation of America. Approximately 2,500 inmates are housed at
the facility.

___ (c)2013 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130804-YY-Prison-riot-inmate-to-change-plea-0804-20130804

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2013 The Natchez Democrat


                              939 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

Town is a safer place one year after the riots

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 422 words


Alex Bell

RESIDENTS have said Bacup is a safer place one year after riots damaged the
town's reputation.

Around 50 youths some said to be as young as nine stormed Bacup town centre
shouting who are ya' on August 9 last year.

Bricks were thrown through takeaway windows and bus stops smashed, with
shopkeepers saying it was a copycat of riots in a number of English cities,
including Manchester.

But a year on, residents have paid tribute to an increased police presence which
they believe has helped keep violence at bay. Councillor Jackie Oakes, one of
the people who helped set up Bacup Pride in the aftermath of the riots, said:
People are coming together and identifying the problems and doing something
about it instead of staying at home and saying Bacup is no good.

That is why we set up the community organisation. There is a lot going on in
Bacup and there will be more happening in the next year too.

Residents had demanded an extra police presence following the riots in Bacup
last year.

Traders claimed customers were being intimidated by gangs of teenagers
congregating.

But many vowed to fight back, insisting Bacup had plenty of which to be proud.

Jimmy Hayans, 52, who has lived on Hammerton Green, Bacup for 35 years, thinks
crime has dropped in the past year.

He said: The town has improved a lot since the riots a year ago.

A lot of people were sitting around drinking in bus stops which caused older
people to be scared to stand near them or even get on the bus. But that seems to
have stopped. Crime has phased out, which is great.

One business owner, who didn't want to be named, added: It doesn't seem to be as
bad at the moment. There are not as many people hanging around drinking and
causing trouble which is encouraging as the elderly people don't feel as
threatened.

Inspector Judith Finney said neighbourhood policing teams have been working to
reassure residents. She added: We have specifically targeted offenders and
successfully been granted ASBOs and CRASBOs on those people who have been
blighting the neighbourhood.

I would reiterate to local people that we are determined to continue to work
hard in the area and drive crime down and make sure that the minority don't make
life unpleasant for the majority of law abiding people who live in Bacup and
take pride in their community.

Taxi driver Glenn Bulcock said the police presence had quelled the number of
incidents.

He said: They are doing a good job. People haven't changed their routines after
what happened and the police being around reassures the public.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: aftermath A worker clears up the damage caused by riots in Bacup last
August sparked by riots across the country

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              940 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

French riot police bitter at tipple ban;
THE WORLD TOUR - NO SALUT

SECTION: CORRESPONDENT; International News; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 280 words


They might be lampooned as a bunch of truncheon-happy meatheads by left-wing
street demonstrators, but that doesn't mean French riot police don't appreciate
a nice glass of Burgundy with their lunch. The notorious Compagnies
Republicaines de Securite, or CRS, are outraged at an official decree stating
they can no longer drink wine or beer with their meals. Until now, a civilised
tipple was part of the daily lunch menu of the controversial force, lauded by
President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose trademark black body armour and riot shields
are a regular feature on French streets.

A glass of wine, beer or cider - but not spirits - was always permitted with
lunch, including while on duty. Even packed lunches provided out of riot vans
came with a can of beer or glass of wine. But in October last year, authorities
were annoyed when pictures published on the website Bakchich showed uniformed
riot police swigging beer from cans on the sidelines of a high schoolers' street
protest against pension reforms in Perreux-sur-Marne, north of Paris. The
website reported that having told locals it was too dangerous to go outside
during the demonstration, officers stopped for a beer on a street corner in full
view of the public. Police unions expressed fury at the new decree. Paul Le
Guennec, of the biggest riot police union, Unite Police SGP-FO, said the French
public had not seemed shocked at the notion of a CRS officer drinking at lunch.
"I don't think the chief of police drinks water when he's having a meal," he
told a Sunday newspaper. The union argued that a small drink with lunch was in
line with French labour law and should not detract from their opposition to
staff cuts.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A nice drop - but not for cops - at the Cafe du Palais in Reims,
France.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              941 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                             July 29, 2006 Saturday
                               Late City Edition

Palm Island trio pay price for 'bout of lawlessness'

BYLINE: Michael Madigan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 239  words


NEARLY two years after the Palm Island riot three men yesterday paid the price
for what a prosecutor described as a bout of ''lawlessness on a significant
scale''.

Looters Russell Parker Junior, 20, and Garrison Sibley, 26, and rioter Russell
Wayne Parker, 38, are the first to be sent to jail for the November 2004 riot.

An all-day hearing in the Townsville District Court heard those who participated
in the riot had been traumatised after being arrested in raids by machine gun
wielding police.

But police, who believed they would be murdered during the riot, tendered victim
statements detailing their own suffering after being pursued by a mob of between
200 and 400 people.

The riot followed the death in custody of local man Mulrunji, a popular
36-year-old Palm Islander found dead in his cell with his liver torn in half
after being arrested for being drunk.

District Court Judge David Robin said the penalties for riot were severe and
with good reason.

But Judge Robin also noted there was understandable anxiety on the island in the
days leading up to the riot.

He sentenced Russell Parker Junior and Sibley to six months' jail for looting.

Russell Wayne Parker Senior was given an 18-month term for rioting which will be
suspended for three years after he serves six months.

Three other Palm Islanders including a juvenile were given non-custodial
sentences after pleading guilty to a variety of lesser charges stemming from the
riot.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              942 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 4, 2005

G8 RIOT POLICE: WE ARE LOST!; 999 CALL OFFICERS STOP TO ASK THE WAY

BYLINE: By Myra Philp

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 554 words


RIOT police drafted in to Edinburgh got lost on the way to a potential emergency
and had to ask the public for directions.

The 40 officers dressed in full riot gear were on standby to respond to any
trouble at the biggest protest ever to hit Scotland. But when around 60
anarchists attempted to make trouble at Saturday's Make Poverty History rally
they couldn't find their way to the scene.

The mix-up emerged amidst claims that there is a shortage of life-saving riot
gear for officers drafted in to police G8.

An officer from the Grampian force claimed last night that there were only 40
sets of protective clothing for 600 police providing G8 cover from his force. He
said: "We were told if an officer gets hurt and taken to hospital then we could
simply have their gear. It doesn't inspire confidence".

He added: "No-one has been given any training and really we have no idea what
our role will be." Riot gear consists of hard hat, visor, fire-proof clothing,
shin and elbow pads, steel boots, baton and shield.

"The problem is if there is a big riot then not everyone will be fully
protected". Their colleagues from Strathclyde who got lost on Saturday had been
sitting in George Street but when they were sent for they first asked for
directions then bought a map.

About 200 officers, half wearing full riot gear, erected barriers and formed
lines to pen the troublemakers into a side street close to Edinburgh University.

But the unit from Strathclyde were left stranded after receiving a call for
reinforcements when they realised no-one had a clue where the disturbance was
happening.

One officer was forced to ask staff at the nearby concert venue, the Assembly
Rooms, for a map of Edinburgh to help them find the police line that had
corralled the black-clad extremists.

An insider at the Assembly Rooms, who did not want to be named, said the officer
from Glasgow joked with staff that he didn't even know where Edinburgh was
before Saturday's historic rally. The insider said:

"Six police vans full of officers pulled up across the road from us when the
march was in full swing.

"For most of the time, they just stood around and chatted and it was obvious
they were being held in reserve in case any trouble started.

"Then about 3pm they all jumped back into their vans and the engines started
revving up.

"It was obvious something had kicked off and they wanted to leave in a hurry. So
the last thing we expected was for one of them to get out of a van and cross the
road to ask for directions.

"He said they had been asked to respond to a call but as they were all from
Glasgow no-one knew their way around Edinburgh." The flashpoint occurred off the
main march route after a group brandishing sticks displayed "aggressive
behaviour".

Police immediately surrounded the anarchists before releasing the troublemakers
in small groups in a side street near to the Meadows. A spokesman for Lothian
and Borders Police said the force had a policy of deploying local police with
officers drafted in from elsewhere.

The spokesman said:

"Where possible, when using mutual aid officers we have tried to deploy a local
officer, navigator or driver.

"Every officer from outside the region has been issued with a map and given a
personal briefing of the area."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              944 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      February 24, 2000, Thursday, FINAL C

Race riot at California prison ends in one death, 12 injuries: Black and
Hispanic prisoners attacked each other with crude weapons, officials said.

SECTION: News; A8

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: CRESCENT CITY, Calif,


CRESCENT CITY, Calif, -- One prisoner was killed and 12 were injured when guards
opened fire Wednesday to stop what officials called a race riot at the Pelican
Bay maximum security prison in northern California.

Officials said the riot broke out in two prison yards at 9:30 a.m. when about
200 black and Hispanic prisoners attacked each other with a variety of crudely
fashioned weapons, including knives. The fighting lasted for a half hour.

A California department of corrections spokesman said that in addition to those
injured by gunfire from the guards, there were ''multiple inmates with stab
wounds.''

The injured were taken to local hospitals by a fleet of 16 ambulances.

Guards opened fire to stop the riot when repeated bursts of tear gas had failed
to stop

the melee and when they thought a prisoner's life was threatened by another
prisoner, spokesman Steve Green told Reuters.

Green, said 14 rounds were fired including warning shots. He called the melee a
''race riot'' and said it was the first between blacks and Hispanics since the
early 1990s.

He said the riot broke out in two prison yards.

In one yard white prisoners joined Hispanic prisoners while in the other yard,
whites kept out of the fight.

The immediate cause of the riot was not known, he added.

There have been other riots and outbursts of violence in the past at the prison
that houses convicts rejected from other state jails because of their violent
behaviour.

About a third of the 3,320 prisoners in Pelican Bay, which is located 32
kilometres south of the Oregon border, are considered so dangerous that they are
kept in conditions of permanent lock-down.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              946 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

Mark Duggan shooting: give the IPCC the powers it needs to investigate

BYLINE: Stafford Scottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 661 words

ABSTRACT

Stafford Scott: The police watchdog has still not been able to interview the
officers involved in the operation that sparked last summer's riots

FULL TEXT

There have been a number of inquiries into the causes of the riots that took
place last August: the Guardian and LSE's research Reading the Riots; the
government-commissioned riots panel and, locally in Tottenham, the citizen's
panel and the community panel carried out extensive investigations into the
causes of the riots. Between them they have interviewed hundreds of people who
were caught up in the events. They have all concluded their investigations and
made their recommendations.

How different the IPPC investigation into the initial incident that led to these
disturbances, the shooting of Mark Duggan in Tottenham on 4 August 2011. Nine
months into the investigation the Independent Police Complaints Commission has
still not been able to interview the officers involved in the operation that led
to the shooting. None of the 31 have agreed to talk to the IPCC over their role.
Each officer has, apparently, given a statement but has declined to be
interviewed by the very body charged with carrying out a full and robust
investigation into their actions.

As a result, the IPCC this week called for the power to demand witness evidence
from officers. Currently it can only demand that officers give an interview if
they are suspected of having committed a crime. The family of Duggan, and
everyone else I have spoken to about this in Tottenham, including senior police
officers, support the IPCC's demands. It is inconceivable to most people that
these officers have not been required to give a full and transparent account of
their actions. Mark's family believe this is the very least they should expect
from those whose duty it is to protect and serve.

Lest we forget, in addition to Mark, five lives were lost in those four crazy
days in August. Towns and cities were turned into battle zones, and 4,000 people
have since been arrested, over half of them incarcerated. Estimates suggest that
up to 15,000 people were on the streets, either as rioters or onlookers. All of
this because of the actions of these 31 police officers, yet they refuse - and
are steadfastly supported by Acpo and the Police Federation - to attend
interviews that could show whether they acted properly.

The truth is that they are concerned their words might be used against them;
that they will say things that will implicate themselves or their colleagues.
However, in this case the police chose a location to stop the cab, in which Mark
was travelling, where there was no CCTV coverage; they are also alleged to have
chased away onlookers, so they are the only witnesses to these events. This
surely calls for a change to the law, which allows them to obstruct the IPCC
investigation.

In addition, there are the laws that allow for telephone intercept evidence to
be withheld from a coroner - another issue that has been thrown up in this
investigation, and another possible barrier to the full facts ever being made
public.

In effect we now have a situation where we cannot be told what information the
police had received to make them follow Mark. The officers who do know and were
at the scene do not have to answer the IPCC questions.

So, as the law currently stands, you could go to a police conference, with
hundreds of officers in attendance. If an officer shot you in front of the
entire audience not one of them would be forced to give a statement. Yet, if you
were to shoot one of them, the entire audience would be ready to testify against
you.

It is right that, as a society, we do not simply seek to hang out to dry those
whose job it is to protect us, but these are clearly double standards. If
policing is to be by the consent of the people, then it is critical we have
total faith that every officer will be held totally accountable for his or her
actions.

· Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              947 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday

Exhibition on '84 riots seeks justice for victims

BYLINE: Raakhi Jagga

LENGTH: 175  words

DATELINE: Ludhiana


To demand justice for the victims of 1984 riots, senior advocate H S Phoolka was
in Ludhiana on Friday with his exhibition on the riots.

Earlier, the exhibition, which included pictures clicked by photo journalists,
had been held in Jallianwala Bagh, Sultanpur Lodhi and Jalandhar.

While one picture showed President's escort being badly injured because he was a
Sikh, another picture showed 26 widows of one family, half-burnt bodies and dogs
eating human flesh.

Phoolka said, "From tomorrow onwards, this exhibition will be in Delhi till
November 3. We will be giving a petition to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on
November 3 seeking justice for the riot victims. Though in Gujarat riots,
punishment has been awarded to the culprits, it is not in the case of 1984 riots
where killings were 10 times more than that in Gujarat. The exhibition was
organised to make people realise that justice has not yet been done."

The petition has been written by former Supreme Court Judge Justice Krishna Iyer
in which he has demanded strict punishment for the culprits.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              948 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory response to the riots 'was knee-jerk'

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 289 words


THE LIBERAL Democrats have passed a motion criticising tough sentences for
rioters, opposing moves to cut benefits for those convicted and blaming
government cuts for the disturbances.

Party members meeting in Birmingham backed a motion rejecting David Cameron's
response to last month's riots in English cities. They suggested some government
policies formed following the riots were a "knee-jerk response".

The overwhelming vote in favour of the motion follows the speech on Sunday by
Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, describing the Tory response to the riots as
"reactionary drivel".

Tory ministers encouraged courts to give longer sentences to rioters, but the
Lib Dem motion insisted: "Sentencing is a matter for the courts, taking into
account the crime, deterrence and the impact on the defendant and their family."

Following the riots, more than 100,000 people backed a government petition
calling for rioters to lose welfare benefits. Mr Cameron and other Tories have
said they are sympathetic to those calls.

But the Lib Dems insisted that removing benefits from those involved in the
disorder and their families "will simply create more deprivation and encourage
more criminality". Lib Dem members also suggested that cuts in services had
contributed to the violence and "leaves young people more vulnerable to an
anti-social way of life".

The motion also rejected Mr Cameron's suggestion of greater police powers to
impose curfews. That would breed resentment among young people", the Lib Dems
said.

Tom Brake, the Lib Dem backbench spokesman on home affairs, said: "The motion we
have passed today avoids a knee-jerk response to last month's disturbances.

"Complex problems require carefully considered solutions, not soundbites."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: While the riot motion provoked support and discussion, one Lib Dem
delegate seemed to doze off during the phone hacking debate
RUI VIEIRA/PA WIRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              949 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The likelihood of a Stanley Cup Riot was obvious to everyone - except those in
charge

BYLINE: Natalie Speckmaier, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 198  words


Re: Cup riot 'was not beyond imagining,' Sept. 2

Police Chief Jim Chu's statement "If I knew there was going to be a riot. ..."
is beyond belief. I, a non-hockey fan, predicted just such an event. As soon as
the Canucks made it to the Stanley Cup Final, I said they would lose, and then
there would be a riot. I never dreamed that it would be a riot to rival what was
going on in Greece.

The morning after the final game, I happened to be in Calgary visiting friends,
one of whom is Greek. He called me to the TV to see the riot footage, and I
exclaimed at how violent things had turned in Syntagma Square. He said that it
wasn't Athens, but Vancouver!

Mayor Gregor Robertson stated that this could happen in any city, but for losing
a game?

Riots in other cities throughout the world usually have something to do with
removing dictators, violations of human rights and/or other serious issues.

Losing a hockey game is right up there with other insignificant disappointments,
which are the fabric of life.

Do we now have a "fun city" designation? The hoodlums who wreaked havoc on our
fine city likely think so, since there have been no consequences for their
actions.

Natalie Speckmaier

Vancouver

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              950 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Meals for riot police at interface cost £68,000

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 137 words


THE cost of catering for police officers at the Ardoyne riots in north Belfast
over the Twelfth of July was £68,000, it has been revealed.

Last month it was revealed the total bill for policing the disturbances came to
£1.1m.

Exact figures were not available last night, but on average about 400 officers
were stationed in Ardoyne at any one time over the four days of the riots. At up
to 1,200 a day, that comes to a minimum of £14.16 on each meal.

John Collins, editor of the Politics NI blog, which filed the Freedom of
Information question that detailed the cost breakdown of policing the riots,
said he was "totally shocked" by the figure of £68,000.

A PSNI spokesman said the amount refers to the cost of "supplying canteen food
or meal packs" to officers taking part in policing the riots in Ardoyne riots
over four days.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              952 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Video of revenge riot appears - a month late

BYLINE: Andrew Clennell and Ben Cubby

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words


NSW police will increase the number of detectives investigating the revenge
attacks after the Cronulla riots, after the Commissioner, Ken Moroney,
discovered month-old video footage of youths attacking a man.

Lack of video evidence was given as a reason why the State Government could not
round up revenge attackers of Middle Eastern background, and why arrests of
Caucasians involved in the original December 11 Cronulla riots have been more
easily achieved.

But NSW police were forced yesterday to release video footage of an attack by a
mob on a man in Cronulla whose arm was broken on December 12, admitting they had
had the footage since December 13.

Mr Moroney is understood to be furious about not hearing earlier of the
existence of the revenge attack videotape and will increase the number of
detectives working on Strikeforce Enoggera.

Justifying a lack of revenge attack arrests on Friday, Mr Moroney had said:
"Unlike the events that occurred in Cronulla where there was visual evidence in
the form of photographs and video recordings etcetera, these other attacks late
at night were under the cover of darkness."

The role of the head of the strikeforce, Detective Superintendent Dennis Bray,
is also likely to be reviewed. Mr Moroney has asked the acting deputy
commissioner Steve Bradshaw for a report on the bungle.

Last week the Opposition Leader, Peter Debnam, said Labor was "soft on ethnic
crime" and "politically correct".

He called for the taskforce's resources - there are 25 to 30 detectives on the
case - to be increased.

The Premier, Morris Iemma, told radio 2GB yesterday that he had been advised
that the footage, from a security camera of a business, was inconclusive for
identifying faces.

But Superintendent Bray said he was releasing the footage in the hope some of
the offenders could be identified. The delay in releasing it was unfortunate, he
said.

He did not believe anyone in the police hierarchy knew of the existence of the
tape, he said.

"It's my job to run this investigation, and if I believed itwas going to lead to
something immediately I would have advised it."

There was even more video footage of the revenge attacks, he said. "Again we're
working through those images, andat the appropriate time I'll release them".

Police released the footage after it was given by a Cronulla businessman to a TV
station.

Mr Debnam said last night: "The tape is as clear as day. I can identify all
these Middle Eastern thugs. If the Government can't, it's a classic case of
politically correct blindness."

Mr Bray yesterday denied he had gone soft on ethnic gangs.

Mr Iemma said police should be trusted, and added: "I want all the grubs and
thugs rounded up and put before the court."

Yesterday police made two arrests out of the four nights of revenge attacks. A
16-year-old was charged with one count of assault, two counts of affray,
malicious damage and one count of rioting, while a 17-year-old was sent to youth
conferencing. Both youths were from Chester Hill.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Video evidence ... a scene from the video released by police in
which a man is bashed by a gang after the Cronulla riot. Photo: Channel Nine
(Appeared in the Third edition only). Continued bail ... Peter Higgs leaves
Sutherland Court yesterday. He faces charges of riot and affray and of offensive
behaviour in a public place. Photo: Wade Laube

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              953 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      December 27, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

'Shaken to the core' but Narendra Modi does not offer apology for 2002 Gujarat
riots

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 955  words


Ahmedabad: Narendra Modi on Friday spoke of "pain" and "anguish" over the 2002
Gujarat riots, but did not proffer any apology over the killings. In a 1000-word
blog containing his most detailed comments on the riots, the BJP's prime
ministerial candidate said that he felt "absolute emptiness" on witnessing such
"inhumanity".

A day after a magistrate's court upheld a clean chit given to him by a Supreme
Court-appointed probe panel in the massacre of 68 people in Gulberg Housing
Society here during the riots, Modi said he did not see the judgement as a
personal victory or defeat. He began by stating that with the judiciary having
spoken, "I felt it important to share my inner thoughts and feelings with the
nation at large."

Modi then referred to the devastating Gujarat earthquake of 2001 causing
widespread loss of life and property before he moved on to the riots the
following year. He stated wrongly that the riots had happened "within a mere
five months" of the earthquake. The earthquake happened on January 26, 2001 and
the riots took place in March 2002. After referring to the two tragic events,
Modi said, "I was shaken to the core. 'Grief, 'sadness, 'misery', 'pain'
'anguish', 'agony'- mere words could not capture the absolute emptiness one felt
on witnessing such inhumanity."

Modi said on the one side was the pain of the victims of the earthquake and on
the other the pain of the victims of the riots. "In decisively confronting this
great turmoil, I had to single-mindedly focus all the strength given to me by
the almighty on the task of peace, justice and rehabilitation; burying the pain
and agony I was personally wracked with," he said in an apparent effort to reach
out to the Muslims ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. "This is the first time I
am sharing the harrowing ordeal I had gone through in those words at a personal
level," he said in the blog.

Modi had over the last decade consistently refused to express regrets or
apologize for the riots that had killed over 1,000 people, most of them Muslims.
"The Gujarat government had responded to the violence more swiftly and
decisively than ever done before in any previous riots in the country.
"Yesterday's judgement culminated a process of unprecedented scrutiny closely
monitored by the highest court of land, the Honourable Supreme Court of India.
Gujarat's 12 years of trial by the fire have finally drawn to an end. I feel
liberated and at peace," He said.

Thanking the people who stood by him in these "trying times" through the "facade
of lies and deceit", the chief minister said "with this cloud of misinformation
firmly dispelled, I will now also hope that the many others out there trying to
understand and connect the real Narendra Modi would feel more empowered to do
so."

Emerging from "this journey of pain and agony", Modi said he prayed to God in
all humility that no bitterness seeped into his heart. "I sincerely do not see
this judgement as a personal victory or defeat, and urge all - My friends and
especially my opponents - to not to do so as well," he said. Modi, who has the
image of a hardline Hindutva proponent and describes himself as a Hindu
nationalist, said those who derive satisfaction by perpetuating pain in others
will probably not stop their tirade against him. "I do not expect them to. But,
I pray in all my humility, that they at least now stop irresponsibly maligning
the 6 crore people of Gujarat," he said.

He said he fasted 37 days for Sadhbhavana (harmony), choosing to translate the
positive judgement into constructive action, reinforcing unity and sadbhavana in
society at large." "I am deeply convinced that the future of any society, state
or country lies in harmony. This is the only foundation on which progress and
prosperity can be built. Therefore, I urge one and all to join hands in working
towards the same, ensuring smiles on each and every face," he said. "Once
again," Modi said, "satyameva jayate" (truth alone triumphs).

Recalling the events of those days in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning,
Modi said he fervently urged for peace and restraint to ensure lives of
innocents were not put at risk. "I had repeatedly reiterated the same principles
in my daily interactions with the media in those fateful days of February-March
2002 as well, publicly underlining the political will as well as moral
responsibility of the government to ensure peace, deliver justice and punish all
guilty of violence.

"You will also find these deep emotions in my recent words at my Sadbhavana
fasts, where I had emphasized how such deplorable incidents did not behove a
civilized society and had pained me deeply," he said. In fact, Modi said, his
emphasis has always been on developing and emphasizing a spirit of unity with
the now widely-used concept of "My 5 crore Gujarati brothers and sisters' having
crystallized right at the beginning of his tenure as chief minister itself from
this very space.

"However, as if all the suffering was not enough, I was also accused of the
death and misery of my own loved ones, my Gujarati brothers and sisters. Can you
imagine the inner turmoil and shock of being blamed for the very events that
have shattered you," he said. For so many years, they incessantly kept up their
attack, leaving no stone unturned. What pained even more was that in their
overzealousness to hit at him for their narrow personal and political ends, they
ended up maligning the entire state and the country.

"They heartlessly kept reopening the wounds that we were sincerely trying to
heal. It ironically also delayed the very justice that these people claimed to
be fighting for. May be they did not realise how much suffering they were adding
to an already pained people," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              954 of 999 DOCUMENTS

          The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia) (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 13, 2004 Friday

Handling of riot left officers 'disgusted'

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: STAVRO SOFIOS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 421 words


POLICE left the Redfern riot "disgusted" and "embarrassed" with how their bosses
had handled Sydney's worst civil disturbance in decades.

Further details emerged yesterday into how senior police handled the February 15
riot and how it "was not a great night for the NSW Police service".

But senior police refused to release the internal report, which took strike
force Coburn six months to compile and which was leaked to The Daily Telegraph
by the State Opposition.

"The only reason we moved into Eveleigh St was because the offenders went to
bed, not [because of] any tactical movement ," one officer told Coburn
investigators.

"Sirs, 50 police were injured as they were standing in a line being hit by
objects. If you didn't want us to move and adopt a softer approach that's fine,
but you should not have left us standing in the line."

The Daily Telegraph yesterday revealed police "under-appreciated the
seriousness" of the riot and mismanaged their response.

Coburn investigators found frontline police didn't have access to riot gear, the
equipment available was old and broken and not for riot use and it took four
hours for riot police to arrive because of communications blunders.

If the police helicopter was called in hours earlier it could have identified
the rioters gathering in Eveleigh St while police had "an inability to rapidly
deploy a sizeable contingent of [riot-trained] police to unplanned acts of
violence with the appropriate equipment".

One officer told Coburn: "On several occasions rioters were allowed to walk past
police lines and attend local shops.

"One of these persons seemed to be one of the main agitators."

Another officer said: "We finished the shift with a feeling of disgust and
embarrassment."

Deputy Commissioner Dave Madden yesterday defended the decision not to release
the report until after a coronial inquest into the death of TJ Hickey, which
sparked the riot after the teenager was found impaled on a fence in Phillip St,
Redfern.

But the coroner does not care when the report is released.

Mr Madden said senior officers who bungled the riot response would not be
punished even though Premier Bob Carr refused to rule out disciplinary action.

"Something would be wrong if we didn't learn from such a circumstance," Mr Carr
said.

"It should not have taken a sorry event like the Redfern riots to reveal the
outrageous lack of organisational support for frontline police," Opposition
Leader John Brogden said.

The Debate: Page 26

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              955 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                              May 18, 2014 Sunday

Elections Results 2014: BJP wins all 3 riot-accused seats in west UP with big
margins

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 325 words


MUZAFFARNAGAR: The Muzaffarnagar riots and the polarization that followed worked
wonders for BJP. The party won all the 10 seats in western UP that polled on
April 7. Among them were the three riot-accused, Sanjeev Baliyan
(Muzaffarnagar), Kunwar Bhartendra Singh (Bijnor) and Hukum Singh (Kairana).
They all beat their nearest rival by a huge margin.

All three were accused of inciting communal passions during mahapanchayat that
preceded the riots in Muzaffarnagar eight months ago.

Not many were surprised when Sanjeev Baliyan won by close to 4 lakh votes, with
the Muslim votes splitting between SP, BSP and RLD.

Muslims were the most disillusioned. Mohd Saleem, a tailor, said, "This time
Muslims could not decide which way to vote and this led to the split of votes
among SP, BSP and RLD." Blaming a lack of alternatives, Usman Ali said, "What
choice did I have? SP will still remain in power for another three years. If I
do not vote for the SP candidate then whom do I vote? BJP?"

But Surendra Sharma, an advocate, blamed SP squarely for the way they handled
the riots. "Police were doing their job to control the riots in September last
year and yet the DM and SSP were transferred because they dared to arrest the
culprits in the first place," he said.

Others were less circumspect in their analysis of the result. Says Naresh Tyagi,
a businessman, "Corruption and lack of development were certainly the issues
here before the riots began, but after that it became a matter of compulsion for
Hindus to vote for BJP. And, there are solid reasons for that. Take, for
example, all the areas which are close to Muslim settlements. It is difficult
for our women to even venture out."

An advocate in Muzaffarnagar blamed the UP government's inept handling of the
riots for SP's poor performance. "Police were doing their job to control the
riots in September last year and yet the DM and SSP were transferred," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              956 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday

Powder keg of cuts and crime could reignite riots'

BYLINE: Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 287 words


A FORMER probation chief believes a powder keg' created by austerity cuts and a
crackdown on crime could lead to a repeat of the 2011 riots.

At a public lecture for the University of Manchester today, Steve Collett,
Cheshire's probation chief from 2001 to 2010, was due to brand the government's
response to the riots inadequate and piecemeal'.

Mr Collett, now a top academic in the university's School of Law, says a tougher
stance on crime coupled with swingeing benefits cuts could spark widespread
disorder on the streets.

Speaking ahead of the speech, he said: In short, their response has been
piecemeal and inadequate, and has done nothing to lesson the threat of further
rioting.

There is a real danger the powder keg will be ignited yet again.

It is clear that the riots took place in the poorest parts of the poorest
communities.

Not only did many of these people lose their businesses and livelihoods, but
five people lost their lives directly as a consequence of the behaviour of the
rioters.

This is why we should do everything possible to make sure these tragic events do
not happen again.

He will also compare the government's response to the riots with the Brixton
riots in 1981 which triggered a public inquiry leading to the publication of the
Scarman report.

No government inquiry has been commissioned following the 2011 riots, which saw
thousands of incidents of looting and arson in Manchester, London and
Birmingham.

In Manchester alone there were more than 1,000 police incidents, 150 fires and
100 arrests in just one night of violence on August 9. Greater Manchester Police
Authority offered 125m in compensation to businesses damaged in the night of
disorder.

The bill for policing the riots totalled 3.5m.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REPEAT OF RIOTING? Steve Collett, left, an ex-probation officer, says
there is a danger the riots of 2011 could be repeated on the streets of
Manchester

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              957 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday

Powder keg of cuts and crime could reignite riots'

BYLINE: Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 287 words


A FORMER probation chief believes a powder keg' created by austerity cuts and a
crackdown on crime could lead to a repeat of the 2011 riots.

At a public lecture for the University of Manchester today, Steve Collett,
Cheshire's probation chief from 2001 to 2010, was due to brand the government's
response to the riots inadequate and piecemeal'.

Mr Collett, now a top academic in the university's School of Law, says a tougher
stance on crime coupled with swingeing benefits cuts could spark widespread
disorder on the streets.

Speaking ahead of the speech, he said: In short, their response has been
piecemeal and inadequate, and has done nothing to lesson the threat of further
rioting.

There is a real danger the powder keg will be ignited yet again.

It is clear that the riots took place in the poorest parts of the poorest
communities.

Not only did many of these people lose their businesses and livelihoods, but
five people lost their lives directly as a consequence of the behaviour of the
rioters.

This is why we should do everything possible to make sure these tragic events do
not happen again.

He will also compare the government's response to the riots with the Brixton
riots in 1981 which triggered a public inquiry leading to the publication of the
Scarman report.

No government inquiry has been commissioned following the 2011 riots, which saw
thousands of incidents of looting and arson in Manchester, London and
Birmingham.

In Manchester alone there were more than 1,000 police incidents, 150 fires and
100 arrests in just one night of violence on August 9. Greater Manchester Police
Authority offered 125m in compensation to businesses damaged in the night of
disorder.

The bill for policing the riots totalled 3.5m.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REPEAT OF RIOTING? Steve Collett, left, an ex-probation officer, says
there is a danger the riots of 2011 could be repeated on the streets of
Manchester

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              958 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Twitter? Facebook? Rioters saw it on TV

BYLINE: Yemisi Adegokeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 697 words

ABSTRACT

The spread of the riots was covered well enough by mainstream media for some
people to use it to find out where disorder was taking place so they could join
in

FULL TEXT

Social media's role in fuelling the riots was the focus of government and press
attention in the aftermath of the August riots - but the Reading the Riots
research suggests the dramatic imagery beamed around the country through
mainstream media may have played just as significant a role.

More than 100 of the project's 270 interviewees referred to hearing about the
riots through TV news - more than those who heard about it through Twitter,
texts, Facebook or BlackBerry Messenger.

A 22-year-old recently returned from Afghanistan described seeing images of a
burning police station on the television with the mother of one of his friends.

"It looked like we was at war again or something, do you know what I mean, it
was that bad, and I said: 'What's this?'. She said: 'It's the youth rebellion'
or something, and I thought: 'Well, why ain't I in that?'"

He said the scenes portrayed in the footage showed an unusual sense of unity,
which tempted him to get involved.

"It just made me realise how it was: we was all together, like, do you know what
I mean? These are lads that, if they seen each other out, they'd stab each other
... without a second thought, like. It happens all the time.

"If they come to town and they see each other, one or the other will normally
leave, and they were just there together, not together, walking past each other
just happy with what was going on."

Some rioters also said the high impact of the TV coverage tempted them to get
involved with the unrest.

"The telly's kinda dumb," said a 16-year-old involved in looting in Clapham
Junction. "All them media people, to say: 'Rah, there's a riot in Clapham
Junction.' That's basically advertising: 'Young people go to Clapham Junction
and do what you're doing.' And to say that there was no police there for about
three or four hours - once again, advertising to them the riot. Rah, yeah,
there's no police here, let's go and have some fun."

TV channels, particularly rolling news, often reused dramatic footage for
several hours during the disturbances, as stations struggled to send camera
crews to the latest sites of unrest. Camera crews also had difficulty filming
after coming under attacks from rioters; a BBC camera van was attacked in
Salford.

The spread of the riots was conveyed well enough by the mainstream media,
however, for some rioters to use it to find out where the disorder was taking
place so they could join in.

A 25-year-old from south London, for example, used his car stereo rather than
social media to track disturbances. "You didn't need to have Facebook or a BB
[BlackBerry]," he said. "You could just listen to the radio, to the news, to
whatever station's talking about what was happening in whatever areas that it
was happening today, and you would be able to know where you can go to find
where to riot; it was simple as that."

Rioters outside London, where the use of BlackBerry Messenger to spread
information on riot locations was less common, said the TV news had encouraged
then to get involved in trouble and fuelled the spread of the riots. "They had
maps on the news showing where it had spread to," said a 22-year-old who clashed
with police in Birmingham. "I think they had it red round where it was going off
bad and I think Birmingham, London, I think Manchester, certain parts of
Manchester sort of thing that was really bad, and I was like, 'Birmingham?' and
I went straight on the train, like."

For others, however, TV's habit of reusing footage from hours before led to
trouble, as one rioter tempted by footage of streets empty of police recalls:
"It's only I see on the news, and I thought: 'Boy, it's an opportunity that I
can't miss,'" said a 32-year-old. "Like, so I went out there, basically, with
the intention of going out to try and steal stuff, only because I thought the
police weren't doing nothing about it. If I'd have known that that was gonna
happen to me, I wouldn't have done it."

The man was arrested, and is currently serving a two-year sentence for
commercial burglary.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              959 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riots report urges action;
NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 81 words


THE perception that police "could not contain" the initial riots in London led
to further disturbances across the country, an independent report has found. The
report also warned that more riots are likely to happen unless urgent action is
taken.

Darra Singh, chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, said: "Our
findings support the view that had the police response in Tottenham and more
widely in London been more robust, the riots would not have spread elsewhere in
England."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              960 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

MET FACES £200M BILL AS COMPANIES HIT BY RIOTS DEMAND COMPENSATION

BYLINE: ROSS LYDALL

LENGTH: 468 words


THE Metropolitan Police faces a £200?million compensation bill from firms
destroyed in the London riots.

It expects to receive more than 1,000 claims from victims of the four days of
near-anarchy when louts trashed and looted shops and set fire to buildings and
vehicles. Despite government promises to foot the bill, police chiefs fear the
cash-strapped Met will be left with debts of "anywhere between £50?million and
£200?million" -- on top of the £35.5?million cost of overtime and buying in help
from other forces. One of the biggest claims is from Transport for London, which
is seeking £750,000 to help repay its £5.2?million bill from last month's
disturbances. TfL lost about £2.5?million in fares and saw damage to buses and
the Croydon Tramlink of about £2.7?million.

New Met commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe has inherited a £600?million, five-year
cuts package and finance chiefs have warned the effect of the riots could leave
the force hugely overspent.

This is because the Home Office is to contest applications from insurance
companies who have paid out to insured firms, though it will reimburse claims
from uninsured firms in full.

The Met expects to run up further costs from its investigation into the riots,
which resulted in 3,300 offences being reported across 28 boroughs after
disorder was sparked by the police shooting of Mark Duggan in Tottenham.

Today is the final day for affected businesses to submit compensation claims to
the Metropolitan Police Authority. By September 8, the MPA had received more
than 515 demands, totalling £150.2?million. However an internal report warned
that "the majority of claims are yet to be made" -- suggesting the final number
of claimants, and the compensation demanded, could double.

TfL said it was encouraged by the police authority to submit a claim after three
buses were burned out, more than 100 were damaged and part of the Croydon
Tramlink was destroyed.

TfL commissioner Peter Hendy warned that its bill could increase as the full
extent of the damage emerged. Under the Riot (Damages) Act 1886, the police
authority is liable for damage to buildings and their contents during a riot,
including shops looted by rioters.

Mr Hendy has praised transport workers for keeping London moving during the
riots, despite a number coming under attack and some requiring hospital
treatment. Mr Hendy said: "The staff of TfL and its contractors made
considerable efforts, in many cases at great personal risk, to ensure that
Londoners were able to complete their journeys during those extremely
challenging events. "Transport services were only withdrawn or curtailed when
circumstances made it impossible to continue. There was no wholesale withdrawal
of services at any time, unlike Birmingham, for example. TfL and London carried
on."

© London Evening Standard

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2011   Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              961 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday
                               Townsville Edition

ISLAND OF MADNESS

BYLINE: CHARLIE PEEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445  words


FEDERAL Judge Debbie Mortimer will today be shown where the Palm Island police
station was burned to the ground in the 2004 riot and where police used a Taser
on a man at gunpoint in front of his family during subsequent police raids.

The tour is set to provide a clearer picture of the events surrounding the riot
to help Ms Mortimer rule on a class action, led by convicted riot leader Lex
Wotton on behalf of the Palm Island community, which opened yesterday on the
island.

The lawsuit alleges the police response to the riot, sparked by the death in
custody of Cameron "Mulrunji" Doomadgee, was excessive, intimidating and racist.

Barrister Chris Ronalds SC told a small crowd in the makeshift courtroom at the
island's school hall that "there has been a long history of poor relations
between police and Palm Islanders".

Continued page 4 Judge to tour Palm riot scene From page 1 Ms Ronalds said the
lack of police accountability after the riot and during the investigation into
the death rubbed salt into the community's wounds.

The community is seeking damages and an apology from State of Queensland and the
Police Commissioner.

Mr Wotton, a two-term Palm Island Aboriginal Shire councillor, spent two years
in jail for inciting the riot that led to the police station, a police house,
barracks and courthouse being burned down.

Balaclava-clad police used a Taser on him in his home in front of his wife and
children.

He alleged that in an "extreme, unlawful and unnecessary" response, police
failed in their duty to the people of Palm Island and that police became the
threat to the system they were tasked to enforce.

Barrister Mark Hinson QC argued that the "flawed" case should be dismissed. He
said the police response was not heavy-handed, given residents "gathered, armed,
threatening to kill the police, demanding that the police leave the island" and
that those people had the "capacity" to carry out the threats.

Police feared for their lives when faced by islanders with "spears, rocks and
sticks".

"There was much more to this than attacking property," Mr Hinson said. Mr Wotton
said the case raised painful memories.

"You sort of move on in some sense, but it brings back a lot of memories about
what happened at that time," he said. "I hope we get a good outcome so we can
move on from here." Stewart Levitt, of Levitt Robinson Solicitors, said the
events on Palm Island in 2004 were "reprehensible".

"It's inconceivable - if a white person was killed in a Townsville lockup, the
police wouldn't have got away with the manner in which the matter was
investigated and the State Premier and Police Commissioner wouldhave behaved in
the way that they did," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              963 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                           February 19, 2015 Thursday

Watch Pussy Riot's Music Video Dedicated to Eric Garner (Video)

BYLINE: Vladimir Kozlov

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 334  words


Pussy Riotmembers have released a video for their first-ever English-language
song. It is dedicated to Eric Garner, the man who was choked to death in Staten
Island by an NYPD officer last year.

The track called "I Can't Breathe" - the last words said by Garner while he was
being choked - was recorded in December in New York and features Pussy Riot's
Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina, Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Nick Zinner, The
Ceramic Dog's Shahzad Ismaily, Andrew Wyatt and the Russian bands Jack Wood and
Scofferlane.

Punk icon Richard Hell is also featured, repeatedly saying Garner's final
wordsduring his conflict with the officer.

Read more Pussy Riot Members Attack News Channel Russia Today During U.K. Visit

In the video, directed by Mikhail Vihrov, Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova are shown
being buried alive, sporting Russian riot police uniforms, while singing "It's
getting dark in New York City, I need to catch my breath."

When Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina were released from a Russian prison in Dec.
2013, they originally said they no longer had anything to do with Pussy Riot and
should not in any way be associated with the band.

However, they later didn't object to being identified as Pussy Riot members as
the band's anonymous members and one known member, Yekaterina Samutsevich, who
was released from jail earlier, have remained mostly inactive. The recent video,
along with a few earlier ones, was released on YouTube channel PussyRiotVideo.

Watch more Pussy Riot Members Talk Activism During 'Today' Appearance

A year ago, Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina found themselves at the center of a
controversyduring the Sochi Olympics while filming a video near an Olympic
venue. They were whipped by members of Cossack militia, although later there
were reports on Russian social media that the whipping was staged.

In December, they released another video, calling on people to take to the
streets of Moscow to protest the sentencing of prominent opposition leader
Alexei Navalny and his brother.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              964 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday

Nobel winner snubs Modi over Gujarat riots

BYLINE: Mail Today/ Ahmadabad

LENGTH: 236  words


NOBEL laureate Venkatraman Ramakrishnan refused to meet Gujarat Chief Minister
Narendra Modi because of his alleged role in the 2002 riots.

The scientist recently visited Vadodara and attended a convocation at his alma
matter, Maharaja Sayajirao University.

Though Vadodara mayor Jyoti Pandya and other BJP leaders tried to convince Venki
for a photo- opportunity with Modi, he declined. This was because of the
scientist and his father's views on the 2002 Gujarat riots and Modi's alleged
role in it.

Vadodara- based human rights activist Prof J. S. Bandukwala said: " He ( Venki)
knows about our suffering during the 2002 riots and has clear views about it.

Like his father, he has very clear views on the role of Modi. So he avoided
meeting him." A victim of the 2002 riots in Gujarat, Bandukwala is a very close
friend of Venki's father C. V. Ramakrishnan.

" Many BJP leaders and others think I discouraged Venki from meeting Modi but we
did not have even a word on the issue. It's his personal choice," the human
rights activist said.

" We stayed together, but did not discuss the issue as we have talked about the
riots earlier," he said, and added that " We believe Modi should apologise for
his failure during the 2002 riots. We are ready to forgive him but he should
offer a public apology". " It's unfortunate that except a few Gandhians, hardly
anyone has any sympathy for the riot victims even today," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              965 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 9, 2010 Monday

Indonesian president calls for increased security amid regional election riots

LENGTH: 611 words


Text of report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post
English-language website on 6 August

[Report by Rendi A. Witular and Dina Indrasafitri: "SBY wants end to local poll
violence"]

President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono expressed concern over recent riots in
regional elections that have tarnished the image of democracy, calling for
increased security to prevent violence from recurring.

"If we cannot stop these acts of violence, it would be a setback for democracy.
We don't want the people to become victims," the President said Thursday during
a two-day national working meeting at the Bogor Presidential Palace, which was
attended by ministers, state enterprise executives, governors and businesses.

Yudhoyono said most riots were provoked by certain parties that had their own
interests in election results and that the riots should be thoroughly
investigated.

"The candidates and their campaign teams might be involved [in the riots]," he
said.

Antara quoted Coordinating Political, Legal and Security Affairs Minister Djoko
Suyanto as saying that the riots were impulsive reactions by the candidates'
campaign teams and their supporters, who were disappointed with election
results.

He said candidates, their teams and their supporters were not aware that they
were partially responsible for security during the elections.

"All this time, [security] has not been properly coordinated," Djoko said,
adding the government would promote the awareness of shared responsibility in
several regions.

Indonesia is scheduled to have 244 local elections this year.

Djoko said eight of 123 regions conducting elections were rocked by riots.

Earlier this year, an angry mob set cars on fire to protest their candidate's
disqualification from elections in Mojokerto, East Java.

Similar incidents flared up in Bima and Sumbawa in West Nusa Tenggara,
Bengkayang in West Kalimantan, and Samosir in North Sumatra.

Legislators called in June for an amendment to existing election regulations to
avoid future disputes after discovering that more than 50 per cent of elections
resulted in controversies.

Between April and May this year, the Election Supervisory Agency (Bawaslu)
reported 1,645 electoral violations, with most occurring during the
vote-counting process.

Muslim scholar Azyumardi Azra said Thursday at a seminar on nationalism that
some processes in regional elections should be reviewed as they were prone to
causing conflict.

"Regional elections are more emotional in character, thus have a high potential
of ending in violence."

Azyumardi said that to avoid decentralization triggering segregation and
conflict, the election process should be simplified.

"The number of parties should be reduced. Smaller parties should merge with
larger ones because they are at risk of engaging in vote buying [to gain
popularity]," he said.

Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI) researcher Syamsudin Haris said regional
elections were laden with problems.

"They need to be evaluated, but we don't need to go back to a central planning
system," he said, adding that it would be better if regional leaders were from
the same political party as the nation's leader.

"That would fit better with the President's scheme," he said.

Indonesia's democracy is a presidential system in which the head of state is
also the chief executive.

Yudhoyono's Democratic Party has not achieved as much success at local levels
this year as at the national level.

Syamsudin said that if national elections were held before local ones, there
would be a higher possibility that local leaders would be from the same party as
the President.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 6 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              966 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday

May 13, 1969

LENGTH: 169 words


'I lived at ground zero when the riots began. I do not recall MM Lee playing any
part which led to the race riots.'

MR KRISHNAMURTHY THRUMURTHY: 'I was appalled to read Wednesday's report of a
commentary ('Split with Singapore cited as a 'lesson'') by Mr Zainuddin Maidin,
a former Malaysian Cabinet minister and once the most powerful journalist in
Malaysia, blaming Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew for Malaysia's race riots in 1969
by questioning the special rights of Malay Malaysians. As a Malaysian during
those riots which erupted on May 13, but now a proud Singaporean, I lived at
ground zero, just 450m from the official residence of Selangor chief minister
Harun Idris, when the riots began. I was forced to take refuge in the national
stadium several kilometres away. Subsequently, I was shot at many times during
the curfew period while distributing food rations to all races, together with a
United Nations Peace Corps American professor. I do not recall MM Lee playing
any part which led to the race riots.'

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              967 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Sydney, French riots reflect cultural, not racial, problem

BYLINE: Mark Steyn

SECTION: FEATURES; Cut & Paste; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 759  words


CUT & PASTE

Mark Steyn, in The Daily Telegraph in London, on the failure of Muslims to
assimilate into Western society


WHAT'S the deal with these riots in Sydney? You switch on the television and
there are scenes of urban conflagration and you think, ''Hang on, I saw this
story last month.'' But no. They were French riots. These are Australian riots.
Entirely different. The French riots were perpetrated by -- what's the word? --
''youths''. The Australian riots were perpetrated by ''white youths''. Same age
cohort, but adjectivally enhanced ...

There are no doubt ''white racists'' down under, but, as an explanation of
what's going on, it's almost quaintly absurd. ''People of Middle Eastern
background'' have prospered in Australia.

The Governor of NSW, Marie Bashir, is Lebanese, as is her husband, Nicholas
Shehadie, as is the premier of Victoria, Steve Bracks. Likewise, in my own state
of New Hampshire, one of the least racially diverse jurisdictions in North
America, the last Senate race was nevertheless fought between a Republican, John
Sununu, and a Democrat, Jeanne Shaheen, both from Lebanese families.

All these successful politicians are of Lebanese Christian stock: that's to say,
after a third of a century in their new countries, they weren't conversing with
reporters in Arabic. It's not racial, it's cultural. And the cries of
''Racist!'' are intended to make any discussion of that cultural problem beyond
the pale.

In that sense, Sydney's beach riots are a logical sequel to what happened in
France. From opposite ends of the planet, there are nevertheless many
similarities: non-Muslim women are hectored and insulted in the streets of both
Clichy-sous-Bois and Brighton-le-Sands. The only difference is that, in Oz, the
''white youths'' decided to have a go back.

These days, whenever something goofy turns up on the news, chances are it
involves a fellow called Mohammed. A plane flies into the World Trade Centre?
Mohammed Atta. A gunman shoots up the El Al counter at Los Angeles airport?
Hesham Mohamed Hedayet. A sniper starts killing petrol station customers around
Washington, DC? John Allen Muhammed. A guy fatally stabs a Dutch movie director?
Mohammed Bouyeri. A terrorist slaughters dozens in Bali? Noordin Mohamed. A
gang-rapist in Sydney? Mohammed Skaf. Maybe all these Mohammeds are victims of
Australian white racists and American white racists and Dutch white racists and
Balinese white racists and Beslan schoolgirl white racists.

But the eagerness of the Aussie and British and Canadian and European media,
week in, week out, to attribute each outbreak of an apparently universal
phenomenon to strictly local factors is starting to look pathological.
''Violence and racism are bad'' [as Cate Blanchett put it at Coogee Beach last
Friday], but so is self-delusion.


Prime Minister John Howard, on the Nine Network's Today program yesterday:

QUESTION: [A] poll conducted by The Sydney Morning Herald suggests that 75 per
cent of Australians disagree with you when you say that there's no underlying
racism in this country ...

Howard: I don't think [that poll] quite means what it appears on the surface. At
the same time as that poll there was a poll that said 81 per cent of people
supported multiculturalism and a majority of people thought that our present
migrant intake was about right. Now if there is underlying racism in Australia,
I find it har to believe that 81 per cent of the population would support
multiculturalism -- the two things don't sit together.

Multiculturalism means a lot of things, different things to different people,
but in its lowest common denominator it means that people believe in diversity
and are therefore tolerant of racial and ethnic difference. So if 81 per cent of
the population is tolerant and supportive of ethnic and racial difference, then
you can't simultaneously have underlying racism ...

There are some people in the Australian community who are racist, but I do not
believe the average Australian is a racist, I do not believe that the majority
of Australians are racist. I mean why would we have accepted people so well? Why
do we practise every day our tolerance and our respect for people?

It is very important as we go through the difficulty of reacting to these events
that we don't overreact. It's very important we don't become too self-critical.
It's very important we don't lose any of the confidence that we've had as an
outward-looking nation because we are the most successful role model around the
world of absorbing people from different parts of the world.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              968 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 26, 2001

HOME OFFICE ASKED FOR HELP AFTER RACE TURMOIL

BYLINE: CAROLINE CHEETHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 300 words


Police plea to pay off; GBP 2m riot bill; Taxpayers may be left to pick up the
cost


POLICE bosses are demanding a meeting with the Home Secretary to get extra
funding for policing the Oldham riots and the Commonwealth Games.

They say the GBP 2m cost of dealing with the riots and the mammoth security
needed for the Games should not fall entirely on local tax payers.  The Greater
Manchester Police Authority wants the government to help with the costs.

Chairman Stephen Murphy said: The Oldham riots cost GBP 2m in extra policng
which had not been budgeted for. And it is still unresolved who is going to pay
for the estimated cost of security at the Games which, in the wake of the
American atrocity, could be up to GBP 10m.'' His demands for financial aid come
following an emergency meeting of the authority in which it was agreed to pay
out around GBP 68,000 in damages to people affected by the violence in May.




Out of 28 damages claims, nine have been agreed because they fit the strict
criteria of the 1886 Riot (Damages) Act. Insurance companies will foot the bill
for all other claims.  Mr Murphy added: To find GBP 2m within the Greater
Manchester Police area will mean reduced policing throughout, to offset the
costs.''

He said the 120-year-old riot law, which holds police financially responsible
for damage caused during a riot, was antiquated and should be abolished.


A Home Office spokeswoman said: As far as I am aware we have not received a bid
on behalf of the GMP in respect of costs incurred by the riots in Oldham. The
rules state quite clearly that the relevant police authority is liable for
damages caused to buildings. Anything else would mean a bill for costs being
submitted for consideration.''


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK . . . Police in riot gear stand their ground

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News


                              969 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 7, 2006, Tuesday

"You would be wrong to claim that riots are undesirable ...they are as
acceptable as war"

BYLINE: James Brown

SECTION: FEATURES; Public Agenda; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 582 words


POLL Tax. Strangeways, Brixton, Toxteth, Stop The City? Go on, you know what I'm
talking about -riots. Explosive, headline-grabbing urban conflicts that storm
into our collective conscience with must-see images like mounted police charges,
burning cars and the arcing flare of a flying petrol bomb. Compare them with
Menwith Hill, Faslane, Grunwick and so on, these are demonstrations which, with
the exception of the huge anti-war and CND marches, never carry the impact for
us to remember them by geographic location alone. It doesn't matter that maybe a
million more people traipse up and down Park Lane and Trafalgar Square with
banners campaigning against war than fight hand to hand with the authorities
over police tactics or capitalism. The simple fact is that the aggressive
conflict that separates a riot from a demonstration also guarantees its status
in our memories.

You can spotlight their random violence, the opportunist looting and the terror
inherent in an uncontrollable mob attacking the state. You can mark them down as
the behaviour of antisocial, anarchistic, drink-crazed thugs. You would, of
course, be partially right, but I believe that you would be wrong to claim that
riots are undesirable. In the bigger picture they are as acceptable as war. The
causes of riots often reflect mini-versions of big international conflicts.

Religion, class, anger, history and communication breakdown are all fuel for
riot's chaotic fire. And, like war, the subsequent social improvement that
follows a riot is often implemented more quickly than any change through
political means can be achieved.

A riot is in its very nature desperate. It is the mob option, there is very
rarely a four-man riot. It's the tool of social change used by those who feel
that their grievance is going unheard. In his book Chaos and Community, Martin
Luther King wrote: "A riot is at bottom the language of the unheard."

As a publicity-getter it is almost second to none. When cars are upturned and
burnt the cameras of the world zoom in. Should you have an eloquent frontperson
to spell out the reason behind the ruction, then a message can be communicated.
When Paul Taylor instigated and led the Strangeways prison riot, so clear and
perhaps justified were his demands that the authorities played loud music to
drown out his message from reaching attendant media.

The Strangeways prison riot prompted a report that would see the biggest changes
in the British penal system in more than a century. Those that created that
report will have been richly rewarded; by comparison Taylor, the man who tired
of prison-officer brutality and the degradation of public slopping out, received
another 11 years inside for his part.

He accepted the increased sentence but also knew that his actions had sparked
major social change.

It is a telling example. They may be terrifying experiences where innocents
suffer and damage to individuals and property is lasting and sometimes goes
unanswered.

But I would argue that riots are a very British institution. An acceptable and
eagerly anticipated example of social bloodletting, something that keeps us as a
nation from revolution itself. Perhaps the greatest proof I can offer is that
the one constant at every riot are the police. They practise for them, come
equipped and use them as training grounds for all forms of crowd control. Go on
p-p pick up a petrol bomb, it's a great British tradition.

* James Brown presents I Predict a Riot, starting tonight on Bravo at 10pm

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              970 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Summer riots could repeat during the Olympics, panel concludes

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 376 words


England could be hit by more riots next summer - possibly during the London
Olympics - without urgent action to tackle their causes and to improve policing
in potential flashpoints, a government-commissioned report warned yesterday.

It said some factors behind the looting, such as poverty, joblessness and
grievances about the police, remained potent problems in parts of major cities.

The investigation by the independent Riots, Communities and Victims Panel also
protested that victims of the riot violence were struggling to receive
compensation.

Darra Singh, the panel's chairman, said: "While deprivation is not an excuse for
criminal behaviour, we must seek to tackle the underlying causes of the riots or
they will happen again."

Maeve Sherlock, a panel member, said interviews in areas hit by trouble
uncovered widespread anger over inequalities and injustices, with people
pointing to bankers' bonuses and the MPs' expenses scandal. They felt that "too
many people and organisations were taking more out of the country than they were
putting in and this was having a corrosive impact on our society", she said.

The panel was set up by Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, after the August
disturbances which spread from London to other major cities such as Birmingham,
Manchester and Liverpool.

It said there was no single motivation behind the trouble, with looters ranging
from criminal gangs to late-night shoppers and opportunists. But it warned: "Few
people ruled out the prospect of riots in the future."

The panel concluded that had the police been "more robust" in dealing with the
riots in London, the violence might not have spread to other parts of the
country.

The panel is due to present its final conclusions in March, but in an interim
report yesterday it called on police to review emergency plans so they could
respond more effectively to fresh outbreaks of looting. It said planning in
London should reflect "the risk of a repeat of the August riots during the
Olympic Games" and ensure the emergency services can cope.

The panel said some rioters were returning from jail to their communities and
urged the probation service and youth workers to work with them to prevent
reoffending. It also recommended a fund to support riot-hit areas.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              971 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday

NCP leader arrested for Miraj riots

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Pune


The Maharashtra Police on Sunday arrested Mainuddin Shamsuddin Bagwan of the
Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for allegedly masterminding the communal riots
in Miraj in September 2009.

Bagwan was the Mayor of Miraj, Sangli and Kupwad Municipal Corporation when the
riots took place. His arrest came as a huge embarrassment for NCP, as he is
known to be a close aide of party's senior leader Jayant Patil, who was the home
minister of state when the riots took place.

The riots had started after a controversy over the erection of an arc depicting
Shivaji killing Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan during the Ganesh festival last
year. It later spread to various areas in Sangli and Kolhapur district, leading
to loss of several lives and property.

Krishna Prakash, former superintendent of police, Sangli, had on June 7 revealed
to the media that Bagwan was the mastermind of the Miraj riots. The NCP leader
had been untraceable since then.

Meanwhile, Bagwan, through his lawyer, had filed an application for anticipatory
bail at the district court on June 9. While the hearing on the application was
to take place on Monday, Bagwan surrendered before the police on Sunday morning
apparently owing to mounting pressure. He was thereafter arrested on charges of
"committing acts for creating communal tension and encouraging destruction of
peace" under Sections 143, 147, 149, 295, 153, 427, 120 of the Indian Penal
Code, and Section 135 of the Mumbai Police Act.

Police said Bagwan would be produced before the court on Monday.

Krishna Prakash had also said that suspects Imran Bopari and Shahid Nadaf,
arrested for their involvement in the riots, had told the judicial magistrate
that Bagwan's personal assistant Munna had instructed them to trigger riots.
"Bopari and Nadaf indulged in activities like throwing cow meat to hurt
religious sentiments. The two also said that Munna had helped them in escaping
from Miraj after the riots started," the former SP of Sangli had said.

Prakash had also held Shiv Sena chief of Miraj Vikas Suryawanshi responsible for
the riots. Earlier, several members of local Muslim as well as Hindu
organisations, including Sanatan Sanstha, were arrested.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              972 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Zimbabwean

                             August 19, 2016 Friday

Police STOP the Brutality!!!

BYLINE: Heal Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 694  words


The victim was rescued by Patson Dzamara, a human rights activist who was part
of the protestors

As the protestors gathered to demonstrate in Harare CBD, riot police descended
on the protestors firing teargas and assaulting several protestors. In the melee
that followed, many protestors were injured as some gasped for air because of
teargas. One of the protestors who sustained serious injuries on his head is
Martin Jemwa aged 45 years. Narrating his ordeal from his Budiriro home, having
been discharged from a local hospital, he said that trouble started when riot
police arrived in teargas trucks and descended on them. He remembers that when
he tried to run away, one of the riot police intercepted him and he fell down.
Heavy assaults then started as more than 8 riot policemen assaulted him all over
his body while he was lying down. When the police realized that he had passed
out, they stopped the beatings. When he regained consciousness, he found out he
had been helped by fellow protestors who took him to hospital for treatment.
Other protestors who were assaulted include Sten Zvorwadza, the Chairman of
National Vendors Union of Zimbabwe (NAVUZ) and Lovemore Chinoputsa, Secretary
General for MDC-T Youth Assembly.

The assault of protestors by riot police come hardly a month after riot police
similarly assaulted, fired teargas and carried out a series of unlawful arrests
against protestors who were also demonstrating against introduction of bond
notes in Harare CBD. Heal Zimbabwe notes that while freedom to demonstrate and
petition is well provided for under section 59 of the constitution, the
disregard for the constitution by the police is not only despicable but archaic
especially in today's world where rule of law must take precedence.

The police are not only violating the constitution but also their own Police
Client Service Charter which stipulates  in its preamble that: "The Zimbabwe
Republic Police is a people-oriented police service provider that seeks to
maintain law and order towards the socio-economic development of the people. The
organization came up with a Client Service Charter in a bid to clearly spell out
the minimum service our clients can expect from the ZRP. The document was
crafted with a view to entrench a results based performance culture within the
organization that will enhance police service delivery" The actions by the
police are deplorable to say the least and also contradict their mission which
aims: " To maintain law and order, protect and secure the lives and property of
the people and to institute dynamic policing practices that engender effective
prevention, investigation and detection of crime".

In addition, the increase in the cases of police brutality against protestors
has also been necessitated by the lack of an independent mechanism such as the
one provided for in section 210 of the constitution which allows members of the
public to report cases of misconduct on the part of members of the security
services. It is Heal Zimbabwe's view that this Independent complaints mechanism
will deter police from being  brutal towards innocent citizens.

The delay by Government to provide an Act of Parliament that sets up an
Independent complaints mechanism  necessitated Heal Zimbabwe on 13 January 2016,
to take  the Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs to the
Constitutional Court over delays in providing an effective and independent
mechanism for receiving and investigating complaints from members of the public
about the misconduct of members of the security services in compliance with
Section 210 of the Constitution of Zimbabwe (the Constitutional court is yet to
make a ruling on the case).

Heal Zimbabwe implores the government to swiftly provide an effective and
independent complaints mechanisms which will receive and investigate complaints
from the public against members of the security services in compliance with the
constitution. Government must also use non-violent and engaging processes that
seeks to address challenges amicably.

The post Police STOP the Brutality!!! appeared first on The Zimbabwean.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/390/1286/82/147159048261.jpg



LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1286


                         Copyright 2016 The Zimbabwean
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              973 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

2002 riots: victims seek transfer of case to another court

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, March 25 -- As many as 84 survivors of the 2002 Naroda Patiya riot
case, where 97 people of the minority community were killed, today wrote a
letter to the acting chief justice of the Gujarat High Court seeking transfer of
their case to another court.

At present, appeals of the convicts in Naroda Patiya riot case is being heard by
the high court division bench of Justice Ravi Tripathi and Justice R D Kothari.

However, riot victims have written in to the Acting Chief Justice V M Sahai
expressing their apprehensions.

"It is our most earnest request to the acting chief justice to transfer the
above cases (appeals of the convicts in Naroda Patiya riot case) to some other
division bench because we have reasons to believe that the division bench headed
by justice Ravi Tripathi has made up its mind to allow the appeals and acquit
the offenders," the letter reads.

The letter is written by survivor and witness in the case Rahemeutulla Sheikh
and 83 others who have signed it.

The riot victims have also questioned the recent judgement by the same bench,
which had granted bail to one of the convicts Kirpalsingh Chhabra on February
26.

The division bench had then suspended the sentence of Chhabra, who was personal
assistant of another convict and former state minister Maya Kodnani, till his
appeal against the trial court order is pending before the high court.

The survivors also questioned the verdict of division bench, which had put
doubts on the trial court's judgement of convicting Chhabra and 30 others.

A Special trial court had, in August, 2012, convicted 31 persons and awarded
life term to 30 including Kodnani for killings and criminal conspiracy, while it
had also awarded 'imprisonment till death' to right-wing group 'Vishwa Hindu
Parishad' (VHP) leader Babu Bajrangi.

Two convicts including Chhbra and Kodnani were granted bail in this case.
Kodnani was released last year by the high court division bench comprising
Justice V M Sahai and Justice R P Dholaria.

Naroda Patiya massacre, where 97 people were killed, had taken place a day after
the Godhra train burning incident of February 27, 2002.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              974 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

Muzaffarnagar violence

BYLINE: Seema Chishti

LENGTH: 451  words


Muzaffarnagar violence

The editor of Inquilab, Shakeel Shamsi, on September 11 writes: "The
responsibility for the riot in Muzaffarnagar has to be attributed to political
leaders. Perhaps this is the first riot where cases have been filed against
members of the assembly and Parliament belonging to different political parties
in such large numbers... most religious leaders did not appear to want the
conflict to be prolonged. That politicians are invested in this riot is
extremely worrisome, because if this trend continues, no one will try to garner
votes via constructive methods, but would find pretexts to engineer a riot."

Rashtriya Sahara, in its editorial, writes: "The most regrettable aspect of the
riot in Muzaffarnagar is that it is well known the parliamentary elections are
fast approaching and much is at stake for many political parties. According to
reports, Home Minister [Sushilkumar] Shinde had warned at least 11 state
governments that riots could not be ruled out there. It is also known that the
resonance of victory or defeat in UP is heard in Delhi, and it is believed that
the path to power in Delhi goes through the state. If rulers, political leaders
and those responsible for the maintenance of law and order did not remember
this, it is condemnable."

Sahafat, in its editorial on September 11, is critical of the fact that despite
the governor's report to the Centre based on intelligence alerts beforehand, "no
effective action was taken by the state government". Hamara Samaj, in its
editorial (Sept 11), writes: "After the tragic murder of three young men
following 'an ordinary incident' of (eve)teasing, the panchayats held in
Deoband... and the violation of Section 144, the local administration did not
wake up. The administration's ambivalent attitude confirms the apprehension
that, along with communal organisations, the government was also backing the
rioters."

Obama's Dilemma

Nai Duniya, edited by former Samajwadi Party leader, Shahid Siddiqui, in its
commentary (Sept 9-15) says "Syria is on fire, but those trying to extinguish it
are worried that they may be burnt in the process ... Obama does not want his
reputation to be damaged over Syria. That is why he wants the support of the US
Congress for a restricted army action." Inquilab, in its editorial on September
11, writes: "Undoubtedly, the sooner the dangerous [chemical] weapons are
destroyed the better. But every peace-loving country, ruler or citizen,
supporting such a move, would justifiably raise the question that if Damascus
accepts the proposal and acts on it immediately, would all the countries with
terrifying stocks of chemical and other weapons also destroy them?"

Compiled by Seema Chishti

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              975 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

1984 riots: HC issues notice to CBI, Kumar

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 161  words


New Delhi, July 10 (IBNS): The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to
the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Sajjan Kumar in connection with a
plea filed by the family of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots victims that challenged the
Congress leader's acquittal in a riot case.

The court directed both the CBI and Sajjan Kumar to give their response by Aug
27.

The appeal was filed by Jagdish Kaur and Nirpreet Kaur who had lost their
relatives in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

In the appeal, they have sought to set aside the trial courts April 30 judgment
in connection with the case.

Giving relief to Sajjan Kumar, a special CBI court on Apr 30 acquitted the
Congress leader of all charges in a case connected with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
.

The riots erupted in Delhi and elsewhere following the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.

Sajjan Kumar and others were also charged for the offence of spreading enmity
between two communities.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              976 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Quebec police riot squad breaks blockade; Five arrests made during protest at
Ste. Thérèse

BYLINE: Jan Ravensbergen, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


Around 100 baton-carrying Quebec riot police broke a blockade at a Montreal-area
community college Tuesday morning, a day after a similar protest shut the school
down.

Faculty and staff of Collège Lionel Groulx in suburban Ste. Thérèse started
entering the school just before noon Tuesday, after the provincial police riot
squad broke the blockade at the main doors of the college and cleared the campus
of protesters.

Students had been told earlier that "all necessary force" would be used to
ensure a resumption of classes, in line with a recent court injunction requested
and received by 53 of the school's students.

The number of riot police deployed appeared to equal or outnumber the 100 or so
blockaders.

Clad with helmets and carrying shields and batons, the riot squad members went
on the march just after 9 a.m., positioning themselves within clear sight of the
blockaders.

Minutes later, they approached the protest lines before jostling with protesters
massed in front of the entryway as a police helicopter hovered overhead.

After some jostling and use of what appeared to be tear gas by police, the crowd
blocking the doors moved away.

Five protesters were arrested. All are expected to face mischief charges, said
provincial police Sgt. Benoît Richard.

They range in age from "under 18 to over 40," he added.

Earlier in the morning, police intercepted a school bus heading for the school
on a nearby highway.

About 20 people who were on board were detained and questioned at police
headquarters in Laval before being released without charges, Richard said.

The school administration had planned a resumption of classes Monday, but, given
the size of the blockade, called that off and said that it had instead formally
asked local police to ensure the classes would be able to resume Tuesday.

"I won't make police strategy public," Charron said.

In a separate incident, Montreal police said they arrested 19 people after
rush-hour traffic on the Montreal-bound side of the Jacques Cartier Bridge was
blocked briefly, shortly before 8 a.m. Traffic was disrupted for several
minutes.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              977 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Masked rioters could face more jail time

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 232  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A private member's bill to ban the use of masks in the midst of a riot is set to
see its first round of debate in the House of Commons today.

Alberta Conservative MP Blake Richards says his bill - dubbed the Preventing
Persons from Concealing Their Identity During Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act
- is an attempt to prevent violence in the streets by making it illegal to wear
a disguise while an individual is part of a riot.

As the law stands now, participation in a riot could lead to two years behind
bars.

If Richards' bill is passed, wearing a mask and taking part in a riot would
increase that jail term to five years.

When a riot starts, Richards said, "there's so much going that police have a
very difficult time to identify who these people are.

"This just gives [police] another tool to make an arrest of someone who is
clearly in a riot situation.

They're disguising themselves, they've obviously got an intention to do
something that they don't want to be identified when they are doing it."

According to the Criminal Code, an unlawful assembly is defined as a gathering
of three or more people with a common purpose out to cause a disturbance, or
incite others to do so.

The Tory MP said his bill would allow police to pick up rioters - such as the
Black Bloc protesters who left a wake of broken glass during the G20 summit in
Toronto last year - before they are able to cause trouble.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              978 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

From Gujarat riots to forced conversion

BYLINE: Dr Muhammad Khan

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 60

LENGTH: 1085  words


EVEN the Indian Hindu writ ers and scholars were con vinced that, the 2002,
riots in Gujarat and Ahmadabad areas of India, was a premeditated violence
against Muslims. The independent Indian sources claim that these riots killed
over 2000 Muslims alone. There are still others, who claim that, these riots
killed 2900 people, with over 90% Muslims. The burning of Hindu Pilgrims' train
in Godhra on February 27, 2002 killed fiftyeight Hindus, which as per initial
investigation was an electric shortcircuiting, but later proved to be staged
managed.

According to eve witnesses, even children were burnt alive and dozens of Muslim
women and girls were raped. This all was well planned and had the official
backing. The killers and looters were given a list of property owned by Muslims.
The Hindu extremists looted and destroyed/ burnt the Muslim property, and
fearlessly undertook the Muslim genocide in Gujarat. This all was done under the
then Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr Narindra Modi, and the incumbent Indian Prime
Minister.

Whereas he was leading the riots against Muslims, neither the Indian Central
Government nor the Indian Supreme Court could held him accountable for the
Muslim genocide. Some Indian and international human rights organisations did
raise voce against him, but he managed a clean chit from all over the years.
Imagine the flawed system and Indian democracy rooted in secularism, that the
same man was elected as the Indian Prime Minister with overwhelming majority.

The United States court, which declared him responsible for this entire episode,
forced US Govt for not granting visa to Modi at that time, could do nothing to
stop Modi's red carpet reception once he was the state guest in White House in
September 2014.

Indeed, this is how the international system, which essentially is based on
power politics, is played. As the Modi's visit to US was not enough, President
Obama had to come to India for the second time during his Presidency either to
appreciate the former for his excellent achievements against minorities and
Dalits or else for the pursuance of US strategic goals. During the visit,
President Obama was the Chief guest on the eve of Indian Republic Day and inked
many contracts with India during the three days visit.

There was no mention of Indian human rights violations and Muslim genocide
through a well orchestrated state sponsored strategy, India is following
throughout. Besides Muslim genocide in Gujarat, Indian security forces have
killed over 100,000 Kashmiris from 1990 till date. Unfortunately, despite voices
from Amnesty International (AI) and neutral human rights organisations, neither
India could stop the Muslim massacre nor major powers prevailed to get that
practice stopped.

After coming into power, the BJP Govt under Modi, had changed methodology and
now following the agenda of Hinduvita is involved in the mass campaigning of
conversion of Muslims and Christians in to Hinduism. The militant group of BJP,
Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), is leading this campaign of forced conversion
of Muslims and Christians into Hinduism. Indeed, this is a clear violation of
the Indian Constitution which promises liberty of belief and worship. Similarly,
there is no social equality and freedom of expression, which Indian constitution
seems to be giving guarantees to the Indian masses.

As per Indian sources, just few months ago, Bajrang Dal, an offshoot of RSS
converted at least 57 Muslim families (200 people) into Hindus at a 'Purkhon ki
Ghar Vapsi' (Coming home of the ancestors) ceremony in Agra, Uttar Pradesh.
Earlier, quite a number of Christians in Aligarh were forcibly converted into
Hinduism, in September 2014. As revealed by RSS official, Rajeshwar Singh, there
was a plan to convert 5000 more Muslims and Christians, into the Hindu fold, on
the eve of Christmas on December 25, 2014, in Aligarh ( Maheshwari College in
Aligarh). Yogi Adityanath is heading this conversion event. There are reports
that, RSS spends Rs.50 lakh every month on the conversion of an average 1000
Muslim and Christian families. So much so, RSS has taken over about 60 churches
across Uttar Pardesh and its leadership has a plan that, "One day these churches
will crumble and our country will belong to the Hindus alone".

Although, there have been few voices against this forced conversion by the
opposition MPs in Indian Parliament, but, there is no response from the ruling
Junta, the Bharatiya Janata Party over the campaign. As per Dalit leader
Mayawati "This is a serious matter as allurement was given to poor [people] to
get them converted." According to Indian media, the Muslim families, who were
forced to convert, told the reporters that, "they were tricked into conversion
and did not speak against the act out of fear of violence". As per NDTV, these
convertees said, "We were told we will get a ration card, Aadhar [ID] card, and
that the police will not bother us. We are poor so what do we do?"

of Muslims and Christians into Hinduism is a violation of International Law and
UN Charter, and even the provisions of Indian Constitution. Today, Muslims
constitutes over 15% of total Indian population and there is a sizable
population of Christians in India apart from other religious minorities. The
strategy of violence and forced conversion in India is a threat to all other
religions and ethnic groups.

This indeed is against the global norms, where there is no country in the world,
which has people from only one religion or ethnic group. It is indeed, the
globalisation, the new world global, where the interdependency is the hallmark
of everyone's life. Indian rulers and policy formulators must reconsider their
planning and discriminations against the minorities.

There are global obligations too, to check, what India is preaching and
practicing. Under the cover of democracy and secularism, India is a state that
indeed is exploiting the minorities and suppressing even its own population
based on the cast system. Besides, exploitation at home, India has an agenda of
regional dominance and suppression of smaller countries. There is a need that,
all regional states of South Asia should collectively contest the undue Indian
dominance and discriminatory treatment against them.

The UN and SAARC platforms need to be mobilising for their lawful right against
India. Pakistan, being the strategic balancer, need to unite the other smaller
states of the region and China be incorporated in the SAARC to defy the
offensive Indian strategy.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              979 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Volunteer posse to help hunt 'wanted' Vancouver riot suspects

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 488  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department is launching a unique program to use a wide
network of volunteers to help track down suspected Stanley Cup rioters.

With newly acquired images of people they believe were involved in the June 15
riot, the department's Integrated Riot Investigation Team (IRIT) is in the midst
of producing a new poster of all the latest unidentified suspects.

It will have the artistic look of a wild-west wanted poster, with mug shots of
the suspects prominently displayed.

The poster blitz will run March 8 from 11 a.m., to 11 p.m.

Hundreds of volunteers are scheduled to be at SkyTrain stations, bus loops,
campus meetings spots and anywhere else where there are crowds of young people
to hand out the updated wanted posters.

According to IRIT Sgt. Howard Chow, the riot squad felt the poster campaign
planned for the entire Greater Vancouver region will serve a number of purposes
in the investigation to find those who caused millions in damage in Vancouver's
downtown core.

For one, he notes, it gives people who are outraged at the ugly events of June
15 a chance to help out in the justice process. And secondly, the poster
campaign is to run throughout the Greater Vancouver area, allowing people
outside of Vancouver to see the new batch of people suspected of being involved
in the infamous riot.

"We're looking for anybody who is willing to come out and help and show the
victims of this riot support and send a strong message that we want these
rioters held accountable," said Chow.

He says they used about 150 volunteers to help distribute posters in November as
the riot investigation moved into high gear and they had dozens of unidentified
suspects captured on images they obtained in the early stages of the police
work.

A list of the best locations to hand out the posters is being compiled by the
police to maximize the day's efforts.

If everything goes as planned, Chow thinks about 30,000 posters could be handed
out on March 8.

"Depending on the number of volunteers, we may print more if there is a big
response."

Shortly after the riot, in which stores were looted, cars set on fire and people
assaulted, Chow recalls how Vancouver's police force heard the anger of the
community.

"The days following the riot, people were outraged," said Chow. "And this poster
campaign is their opportunity to come forward and say this riot will not be
tolerated and help out the victims of the riot."

The upcoming poster drive is the force's largest ever use of volunteers to help
in an ongoing investigation, adds Chow.

To date Vancouver police have recommended 350 criminal charges against 125
suspected rioters. Five more accused rioters were charged Thursday bringing the
number of people before the courts with Crown-approved charges to 57.

They face a total of 153 criminal charges. Two weeks ago, Ryan Dickinson, 20,
the first person to be convicted of participating in the riot, was handed a
17-month jail sentence.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News; Integrated Riot Investigation spokesperson Sgt. Howard
Chow holds a poster similar to the one about to be distributed with new faces of
the 2011 Stanley Cup riots suspects in Vancouver.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              980 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Riot site gets 12 new faces

BYLINE: Andy Ivens, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 254  words


The Vancouver Police Department added 12 new faces to the Stanley Cup riot
website Thursday.

The Integrated Riot Investigation Team (IRIT) is hoping the public can identify
the suspects in connection with the riot.

VPD Insp. Les Yeo, who heads up the IRIT, said the response to the website since
it was launched Aug. 30 "has been increasingly overwhelming."

There have been more than 250,000 visits to the website: http: //bit.ly/ oBZxvE.

The IRIT credits the website, at least partly, for the fact 63 people have
turned themselves in since the mayhem on June 15, as a result of the Vancouver
Canucks losing Game 7 of the Cup final to the Boston Bruins.

"Investigators are now making arrests at suspects' workplaces, schools and
homes," Yeo said.

Two women and 10 men are the latest people to have their faces made public.

A report to Vancouver city council last week pointed out 70 per cent of the
people who had come forward in the early stages of the investigation live
outside Vancouver.

Yeo noted on the IRIT website the public's frustration over the lack of charges
to date, but pointed out, "It would be irresponsible and negligent of us to rush
this massive investigation.

"Our diligence and thoroughness will ensure that we lay the highest number of
charges and obtain the greatest number of convictions with the most severe
penalties."

Fifty officers and civilians from seven municipal police forces across the Lower
Mainland and the RCMP are working diligently to identify the rioters.

aivens@theprovince.com

twitter.com/andyivens

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Submitted; Police are asking for the public's help in identifying two
womenand 10 men on its riot investigation website.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              981 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                KIAH-TV, Houston

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Bloody Riot

BYLINE: Sasha Armstrong, KIAH-TV, Houston

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 155 words


Aug. 08--LONDON, England -- The usually well-mannered Brits were anything but,
after a 29-year-old father was shot and killed by London Police on Thursday.
Nearly 120-people marched to a north London police station demanding justice for
the victim who many feel was killed for no reason.

London's Mayor Boris Johnson, who is vacationing, claims ending his vacation to
return to a city that's been riddled by violent riots and looting for 2 days
would reward the criminals for their behavior.

Copy-cat riots all across the city have led to days of looting, burning cars,
arrests and injury.

Nearly 50-officers have been beaten and injured by the angry mobs.

To see more of KIAH-TV, go to http://www.39online.com/ Copyright (c) 2011,
KIAH-TV, Houston Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110808-5HO-BRF-Bloody-Riot-0808-20110808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5HO


                                 Copyright 2011


                              982 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 17, 2004 Tuesday

Flames and fury: the mind of a mob

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: RACHEL MORRIS

SECTION: FEATURES-TYPE- FEATURE-COLUMN- OPINION / OP EDTABLE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 830 words


Oppressive heat, the cover of darkness and a tragic death. RACHEL MORRIS reports
on the elements that triggered the Redfern riot

THE experts all agree the conditions in Sydney on Sunday night were almost
textbook perfect for a riot.

When conditions, both natural and man-made, come together in a certain way, it
is often human instinct to respond with violence.

The conventional wisdom on mob rage is there is often one dramatic trigger, such
as a political assassination or an unpopular jury verdict, that becomes a focal
point for underlying tensions.

The first documented riot was the Nika revolt, which took place over the course
of a week in Constantinople (modern day Istanbul) in 532.

The riot began when supporters of different teams of chariot racers disagreed
violently -- 30,000 people died in the ensuing chaos.

Psychologists and criminologists believe landmark events are just one ingredient
in generating a riot.

Dr Joseph Forgas from NSW University's school of psychology said groups behaved
in ways they would not as individuals.

"People feel empowered in a group. The individual loses the usual constraints,"
he said.

Dr Kip Williams from Macquarie University's psychology department identified a
number of psychological factors that contribute to mass violence.

"When I say contribute, it first should be noted that, at the individual level,
there is usually anger and a perceived injustice," he said.

"That can lead to aggression. When there are others who are similarly angered,
people can [lose their] sense of self. All that is needed is one person to begin
the violence and others will follow."

Dr Williams said anything that contributed to heightened arousal or a loss of a
sense of self could contribute to this situation.

"Being in a large group is arousing; crowding is arousing; shouting/chanting is
arousing; seeing violence is arousing," he said.

Dr Williams said riots did not just happen -- the right time, right place and
right circumstances were needed. These included:

DARKNESS

Riots tend to occur under cover of darkness. This, according to Dr Forgas, is
because anonymity is a prerequisite for involvement.

HEAT

As temperatures soar, so do tempers -- studies of rioting all point to most
occurring in summer.

The 1967 race riots in Detroit reached flashpoint in the heat of a very long
summer; the LA riots in the wake of the Rodney King case occurred just before
summer.

"Heat increases arousal, however if it gets ferociously hot then people become
lethargic," Dr Williams said.

MORAL RIGHTEOUSNESS

There is usually one defining moment or event that turns individuals into a
rioting mob.

In the case of the LA riots, it was the acquittal of the white police officers
caught on film bashing black man Rodney King.

Thousands of people took part in mass law-breaking over four days, including
looting and setting fires.

A sense of moral righteousness allows the group to believe their reaction is
sanctioned.

"They feel they have a moral right or they feel their actions are morally
justified," Dr Forgas said.

RUMOURS

News of an event can spread quickly, particularly through a tight-knit
community.

In an elaborate and dangerous kind of Chinese Whispers game, the facts can be
quickly distorted.

This was the case with the riot at Newcastle's Star Hotel in 1979 when locals
unhappy with the closure of the live music venue overturned cars and waged a
battle with police.

While hundreds attended the actual closing night of the hotel, hundreds more
joined in as word of the riot spread.

ALCOHOL

"Anything that lowers the threshold of inhibitions can contribute," Dr Forgas
said.

That was the case during the "bikie riots" at Bathurst's Mount Panorama races on
Easter 1985.

Fuelled by alcohol, bikies waged a pitched battle using molotov cocktails with
more than 400 police over the course of the weekend, resulting in the then Wran
Labor Government introducing a new law of "riot and affray".

While many things can trigger a riot, stopping one is less simple.

"Police can make riots worse because people focus their efforts on them," Dr
Forgas said.

Dr Williams said social scientists had a lot of data on what started riots but
had dedicated very little attention to what stops one.

"We can only guess," he said.

"Fatigue is probably an important factor -- people get hungry or thirsty. Maybe
people finally just get bored with it."

Mix of racism, alcohol and anger

WATTS RIOTS, August 11, 1965: Six days of rioting that claimed the lives of 34
people. Started after a traffic accident

LOS ANGELES RIOTS, April 29, 1992: Riots following the acquittal of police over
the beating of black man Rodney King left 60 dead

STAR HOTEL RIOT, September 19, 1979:The closing of the popular Newcastle hotel
saw police cars overturned and burnt

BRIXTON RIOTS,  April 10, 1981: Police were trapped in the Brixton police
station during three days of riots

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              983 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 28, 2014 Wednesday

Sanjeev Baliyan: From riot accused to central minister

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 342 words


NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday accommodated its Muzaffarnagar candidate Sanjeev
Baliyan, an accused in the recent riots in the region, in its council of
ministers.

Coming in the face of criticism that the riots stoked communal polarization,
Baliyan's inclusion signals defiance.

The party has consistently maintained that Baliyan has been framed by the UP
government as part of its "vote bank politics".

Baliyan was part of a mahapanchayat in September 2013 which was held despite
prohibitory orders and allegedly inflamed tensions. UP police charged him with
violation of prohibitory orders and promoting enmity between two communities.
The riots claimed more than 60 lives.

Baliyan is the only candidate apart from V K Singh from western UP who has been
given a position in the Narendra Modi government. Former Army chief Singh, who
won from Ghaziabad, had a victory margin second only to Modi. Baliyan himself
won by a margin of four lakh votes.

A Jat, Baliyan is a PhD in veterinary anatomy from the Haryana Agricultural
University at Hisar. He was an assistant professor there before joining the
Haryana government as a veterinary surgeon. Baliyan quit the job about two years
ago to become a partner in a real estate firm and also joined the BJP.

The party has claimed that Baliyan was never involved in the Muzaffarnagar riots
and was framed by the state government. BJP swept the riot-affected region of
western UP winning all 10 seats on the back of a Modi wave and Hindu-Muslim
polarization that the riots spawned.

Baliyan was accompanied in his victory by two other riot accused -- Bharatendra
Singh, who won from Bijnor, and Hukum Singh, who won from Kairana.

Even during campaigning, BJP had given signals that it was not averse to
courting the company of riot accused. At an Agra rally of Modi, BJP legislators
Sangeet Som and Suresh Rana were garlanded and felicitated by the party's Uttar
Pradesh leaders. Both men spent over a month in jail for instigating
Hindu-Muslim violence. But the controversial legislators were honoured long
before Modi arrived.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              984 of 999 DOCUMENTS

          The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia) (Sydney, Australia)

                            March 2, 2005 Wednesday

Family friend granted bail for funeral - Macquarie Fields 2564

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: LARISSA CUMMINGS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 284 words


A TEENAGE ward of the state who lived with the family of car crash victim Dylan
Rayward at Macquarie Fields has been granted bail on compassionate grounds so he
can attend the funeral of his friend.

The 18-year-old was one of eight men who faced Campbelltown Court yesterday on
various charges relating to three consecutive nights of riots in Macquarie
Fields.

Police allege the man was one of about 100 rioters captured on video footage
hurling missiles including glass bottles, bricks, concrete and fireworks at
police on Saturday night. He was charged with two counts of riot.

But despite already serving a six month good behaviour bond from a court
sentence in January this year, magistrate Michael Mahony granted him conditional
bail with a nightly curfew of 8pm.

"I note that you were a close companion of one of the young men who was killed,"
Mr Mahony said.

"But I want you to control your emotions and grieve properly."

The man is due to appear in Liverpool Court on April 27.

Two other men charged with offensive behaviour -- Peter Leslie Dickson, 34, and
Rance Harrison, 28 -- were also granted bail. Five other men on charges
connected with the riots were all refused bail yesterday.

Facing court over the riots

* Daniel Grant, 21

Charge: Riot and affray

* Daniel Patrick Pluis, 20

Charge: Riot and affray

* Peter Leslie Dickson, 34

Charge: Behave in offensive manner; fail to comply with police directions

* Bruce Robert Barnes, 40

Charge: Riot, affray

* Troy Andrew Harrison, 30

Charges: Affray, riot

* James Hunt, 18

Charge: Assault; intimidate police officer in execution of duty; riot, affray

* Rance Harrison, 28

Charges: Riot, affray, assault police

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              985 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Travel Weekly

                               November 11, 2005

Riots hit lates market

BYLINE: Other Contributor

SECTION: Operators/Agents; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 296 words


FRANCE'S late-booking market has slumped following nationwide riots.

Operators say business to city-break favourites Paris and Lille have suffered
particularly, in the wake of violent demonstrations by the country's poor,
mainly muslim, citizens against government discrimination.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has warned tourists to "exercise extreme
care in the affected areas" after riots spread from the capital to cities
including Nantes, Rennes, Toulouse, Nice and Cannes. The French government has
now declared a state of emergency, allowing regions to impose curfews if
necessary.

Cheapflights.co.uk said searches for flights to Paris have dropped by thousands
since the riots started two weeks ago. Paris is normally the third most searched
flight destination, however, at its worst point during the riots, it dropped to
sixth.

Cresta Cities product manager Ian Lomas said the operator had noticed a drop-off
in late sales to France, although this was only about 10% of its total business.

"We will be more concerned if the trouble carries on until December because we
will be running tactical promotions then for the New Year," he said.

Superbreak sales director Ian Mounser said the problems are "bound to have an
impact on people yet to book a short break as they will choose somewhere else".

However, he said he could "count on one hand" the number of clients who have
already booked their trip and are having second thoughts about travelling to
France. He said customers who have already booked are being allowed to switch
their trip to an alternative destination.

"It's unlikely to be a problem as the riots are in the suburbs and not the
centre of town and cities," he said.

Eurostar said the riots have not had an impact on passenger numbers or forward
bookings.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved


                              986 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          February 18, 2004 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

School system has let down many boys like TJ

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Letters; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 843 words


John Brogden's response to the weekend's tragedy in Redfern is beneath contempt.
We can only hope that the Premier's response of calling for three inquiries into
the incident is not also a cynical attempt to cover up the tragedy by bulldozing
a mountain of paperwork over it.

Any inquiry into the short life and sudden death of TJ Hickey must begin by
investigating the woefully inadequate attempts of the state education system to
prepare this young man for adult life. Each year hundreds of young people are
being turned out of rural schools in towns like Walgett without being able to
read or write and with no prospects of ever being gainfully employed.

These are young people without hope or expectation and when they drift to places
such as Redfern it is not surprising that they do not have the skills to cope.
Nor is it surprising that they might flee in fear when confronted by the police.
Ruthlessly consigned to the scrap heap of society they have, rightly or wrongly,
learnt to fear the police whom they have come to regard as the upholders of an
unjust and uncaring society.

Dr Paddy Cavanagh,

Katoomba, February 17.

A group of alcohol-fuelled Aboriginal people riot in Redfern: John Brogden wants
to bulldoze the Block and it is referred to as a race riot. A group of
alcohol-fuelled, rich, spoilt, white kids riot in Bondi: no calls from Mr
Brogden to bulldoze anything, and it certainly is not called a race riot nor a
class riot nor a cushy-ride-through-life riot.

Mike Harris,

Stanmore, February 17.

John Brogden's solution to the complex problems in Redfern is to roll up with
the bulldozers and flatten the lot. I am sure that has earned him a few brownie
points with the morning shock jocks. But really, John, why stop there? One or
two Exocets would really energise the khaki vote.

John Vigours,

Neutral Bay, February 17.

Thank you for publishing Ray Minniecon's article ("Despair the reality for a
race lost in the alien space of Redfern", Herald, February 17). I have felt sick
listening to news and views of politicians and radio announcers about the
Redfern riot. This article said everything that needs to be said to compensate
for the narrow and patronising views being thrown around about the Aboriginal
community in Redfern. We need to be understanding and supportive to people who
are hurting.

Abby Chambers,

Five Dock, February 17.

Ray Minniecon, what I saw is different from you. While you were blind to the
rampage that existed, seeing only a grieving mother, I saw a group of
individuals looking for a scapegoat for what happened to the unfortunate
teenager killed in what has been described by eye-witnesses as an accident.

You can't possibly condone the events of Sunday evening. I saw a group of men
and women violently assaulted by rioters and both private and public property
destroyed.

Don't you ever get sick of making excuses for the actions of some in your
community? I know some people outside your community are heartily sick of
listening to those excuses and don't condone the activities of Sunday evening.

David Clarke,

Watson (ACT), February 17.

Why do we as a society always find a montage of excuses to justify, and somehow
reduce the culpability for criminal behaviour? I'm saturated to exhaustion with
the use of emotive psycho-babble in attempts to absolve the criminal behaviour
of Aborigines at Redfern on the weekend.

Anachronistic terms such as dispossession, alienation,
cultural-undernourishment, drug-dependency, hopelessness, self-determination
belong to a 1960s civil rights march, not Australia in the third millennium.
Violence is violence whether it is in Iraq, Israel or Redfern. Society has to
deal with it with a strong response. We do not need snivelling excuses which
endeavour to paint the criminal perpetrators as morally courageous freedom
fighters.

Bob Barnes,

Wedderburn, February 17.

Thank you, Mr Elia (Letters, February 17), for the most articulate account of
racial profiling I have read for some time. The tragic events of this week are a
chilling reminder that all is not well in the way we live as a community. And it
is important that we look beyond the police for solutions. Attitudes in that
public institution mirror those in every other, and in many homes.

While Aboriginal Australians suffer more than any other group, many "black",
"brown" or "yellow" skinned Australians will tell you stories which belie our
official policies of non-discrimination the time they inquired about the
problems their

children were having at school, when they tried to intervene on behalf of their
elderly parent in hospital, when they spoke with an accent in a job interview.
It's time we paused for a minute's silence, and then started to listen.

Soraya Kassim,

Kogarah, February 17.

Those Redfern rioters should be shipped back to where they came from. Oops . . .
I forgot.

Simon Squires,

Crows Nest, February 17.

What's all this nonsense about demolishing the Block? With the state of the
Sydney property market, wouldn't it make sense to have Gav and Waz work their
renovation magic?

Kevin Rigby,

Newtown, February 17.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              987 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                  July 7, 2001

Chief Executive had ulterior motive when giving award

SECTION: Letters To The Editor; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 278 words


I was shocked by the news that the SAR Government had decided to award the Grand
Bauhinia Medal to Yeung Kwong who played a central role in the 1967 riots.
During the riots, 51 people died and hundreds of people were injured.

Even worse, Mr Yeung is unrepentant. When asked by a journalist whether he
regretted his role in the riots, he simply said he had "already forgotten" what
happened at the time.

I was not born during the riots. But I know that all forms of violence should be
condemned. Even if Mr Yeung was not directly responsible for the loss of lives
at the time, his involvement in the riots should mean that he is undeserving of
this honour.

Unionist legislator Leung Fu-wah was reported as saying Mr Yeung deserved the
honour, because the riots led to an improvement in labour law and workers'
rights. I strongly disagree with these remarks.

Any improvements which came after the riots were introduced by the colonial
administration, not by those who started the riots.

This move is widely seen as a way for Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa to solicit
votes from the conservative 800-strong Election Committee (which will vote for
the next chief executive); some of these committee members were sympathetic to
the rioters.

This award to Mr Yeung does not violate any Hong Kong law, but it is sad to see
Mr Tung employing such methods to please the pro-Beijing camp as he seeks
re-election. This is further proof that the system used to elect our chief
executive is unfair.

We cannot just let bygones be bygones. The feelings of those people who were
victims of the riots should be respected.

LAI WING-YIU

Sai Ying Pun

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2001 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              988 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MP: Riot lessons ignored by authorities

BYLINE: JONATHAN WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 284 words


THE lessons of the 2011 riots have been ignored, a Birmingham MP has warned.

Khalid Mahmood (Lab Perry Barr) said the Government had failed to deal with any
of the issues raised by the disturbances two years ago which hit cities across
England.

In Birmingham, rioting and looting took place in the city centre and elsewhere.

Three men were killed when they were hit by a car during the disturbances, while
12 shots were fired by police by a gang in Aston in an incident that led to six
convictions for riot, arson and firearms offences.

Ministers set up the Riots Communities and Victims Panel to examine and
understand why the riots took place.

But it has emerged that the Government quietly published its formal response to
the panel's without fanfare last month.

There was no ministerial statement to mark the publication of the response. And
rather than responding to each of the panel's recommendations in detail, the
30-page document sets out the action taken by the Government to deal with the
criminals involved in vandalism and looting, restore business and community
confidence, tackle the deep-rooted social issues underlying the unrest and
improve relations between the police and the public.

Mr Mahmood said: "They haven't really responded at all.

"The Government wanted to be seen to be tough on the rioters but there are a lot
of issues that needed to be resolved and they've just been ignored.

"We haven't actually had any support for communities."

Communities minister Don Foster rejected suggestions that the Government had
attempted to "bury" its report.

"This is just one part of the package. Surely what ultimately matters is... what
we are actually doing, rather than getting publicity for it."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP Khalid Mahmood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              989 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 11, 2013

'84 riots case catches up with Tytler;
Court orders reopening of case, sets aside CBI closure report

BYLINE: Fpj News Service

LENGTH: 309  words


New Delhi: In a big jolt to Jagdish Tytler, a Delhi court on Wednesday ordered
reopening of a 1984 anti-Sikhs riots case against him.

The court of the Additional Sessions Judge, which ordered the re-investigation
on Wednesday, has set aside the order of a trial court which had accepted the
Central Bureau of Investigation closure report of 2009 that had given a clean
chit to Tytler.



The case against Tytler relates to the killing of three persons near a gurdwara
in Pul Bangash area of the national capital on November 1, 1984.

The CBI had closed all cases against Tytler citing lack of evidence. The CBI had
claimed that Tytler was at Indira Gandhi's funeral at the time of the riots.

The court's order on Wednesday came on a plea filed by a riot victim who had
sought further probe into the killing of the three people.

The court has now directed the CBI to examine eyewitnesses and people claiming
to have information about the riots. During lengthy arguments in support of the
riot victim's plea, senior advocate H S Phoolka had submitted that there was
material that the CBI has ignored before the trial court against Tytler.

Tytler told a TV channel that he doesn't fear the re-investigation, as he had
nothing to hide. "I have nothing to reveal or hide," said Tytler about his
alleged role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots which were triggered after the then
prime minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.

Reacting to the court order, the Congress said that law should be allowed to
take its own course. Congress spokesperson Renuka Chaudhary said, "This is not
new case. It's going on for a long time. Let the law take its course. Till now
there is no proof against Jagdish Tytler." Meanwhile, the CBI has said that it
will first study the order and then decide whether to re-investigate or to move
a higher court against this order.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              993 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              996 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                 August 6, 2012

Riot-hit furniture store covered in photo mosaic

BYLINE: Nick Hitchens

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 191  words


Riot hit furniture store House of Reeves has been transformed with a giant photo
mosaic created by young people wanting to make a positive contribution to
society.

The 145-year-old Croydon store was burned to the ground during the August 8
riots last year.

Owners the Reeves family, working with charities Inspired and Do Something took
on the Reverse Riots campaign working to erase the negative images and sentiment
created by last year's disturbance.

As part of this the store has been covered with 4000 photos of young people
holding positive messages about themselves.

Trevor Reeves said: "The positive legacy of the riots was the coming together of
people of all ages and from all walks of life to help mend the capital.

"We were overwhelmed by the support that was offered to our family and many
others affected in the days and weeks that followed.

"We are blessed with so many bright, inspirational and positive young people in
this country and I believe it's important that we don't allow the actions of
such a few cloud our judgment of the many."

The campaign was launched on June, and the photographs were placed upon the
store over the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              997 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday

Cambridge vet school treats dog injured in riots

LENGTH: 260 words


Obi the police dog, who was injured in the riots

A police dog who was struck on the head with a brick during the riots in London
was treated at Cambridge University's Queen's Veterinary School Hospital.

Around 40 dogs were used by the police during the week of the London riots to
help control crowds and support officers.

Obi, a 3-year-old German shepherd, was deployed on the front line in Tottenham
on the night of Saturday, August 6.

While at work, Obi was hit on the head by a brick thrown by a rioter and
suffered a bone injury to his skull.

He underwent emergency treatment at Mandeville Veterinary Hospital, but was then
referred to Queen's Veterinary School Hospital in Cambridge for a CT scan of his
skull.

Under the direction of veterinary surgeon Graham Hayes, he received specialist
diagnostic investigation of his injuries.

Under a light anaesthetic, the CT scanner was used to take several detailed
pictures of Obi's skull: these were then re-constructed to create a three
dimensional image of his head injury.

The image clearly shows the impact site of the brick and surrounding bone
damage. Fortunately, there was no evidence of gross haemorrhage around the brain
or fractures of the brain case.

The damage done to Obi's skull

Veterinary surgeons are confident that Obi will make a full recovery over the
next few months.

Pc Phil Wells, Obi's handler from the Metropolitan Police Service Dog Support
Unit, said Obi "showed incredible bravery" in the face of "mass disorder".

He said: "We're now all wishing Obi a speedy and full recovery."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2011 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              998 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Globe (Worthington, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

Morales pleads guilty to riot charge

BYLINE: Justine Wettschreck, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


Nov. 17--WORTHINGTON -- A 19-year-old Worthington man pleaded guilty to a gross
misdemeanor riot charge Wednesday in an agreement that dismissed two felony
charges.

Armando Antonio Morales Jr. was charged with second-degree assault with a
dangerous weapon and second-degree riot armed with a dangerous weapon, along
with the third-degree riot charge, after an incident in June, when he was
accused of getting involved in an altercation between several people and hitting
a young woman in the head with a stick.

During an interview with authorities, Morales denied being at the scene when the
altercation took place and said he did not see a fight or hit anyone with a
stick. He told another officer he saw the fight and that his girlfriend's sister
fought with the victim and hit her with a stick.

During court Wednesday, Morales stated under questioning he was present at the
time of the altercation and saw the groups of people talking back and forth. He
said the fight was between the victim and another woman and that another man was
there, and that "something happened," but said he intended to pay restitution as
part of the plea agreement.

He was sentenced to one year in the county jail, but that time was stayed on the
condition he serve two years probation, pay restitution of $5,362 in medical
bills and a $1,000 fine and have no contact with the victim.

To see more of The Daily Globe, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dglobe.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101117-QG-Morales-pleads-guilty-to-riot-charge-1117-20101117

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QG


                         Copyright 2010 The Daily Globe


                              999 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2003, Tuesday

FALLOUT AT THE G8 SUMMIT: BLAME POLICE;
 HEAVY-HANDED SECURITY SQUADS WITH TEAR GAS CAUSED GENEVA RIOTS, CLAIM

BYLINE: PAT FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words

HIGHLIGHT: ACCUSED: Swiss police fire tear gas at demonstrators at the height of
the anti-globalisation riots in Geneva


IRISH protesters last night blamed police for sparking the riot in Geneva during
the G8 summit.

They claimed Swiss security squads were heavy-handed and used tear gas,
concussion grenades, rubber bullets and water cannons against demonstrators.

The protesters told the Independent Media Centre website that police raided
camps and a cultural centre and tear gassed blockaders.

The website reports: "Everybody is OK but very tired and dazed from lack of
sleep. Things are fairly crazy.

"One activist has been slightly injured from a tear gas canister but she is OK."

It is believed some Irish demonstrators were involved in an incident where a
British protester was seriously injured on Sunday evening.

An Irishman gave first aid to the man when he fell from a bridge on to a dried
river bed.

It is also understood that some of the Irish contingent were arrested and had
their passports confiscated but were later released.

Sporadic clashes between demonstrators and police continued in Geneva until the
early hours of yesterday.

At the height of the rioting German police officers, about 1,000 of whom were on
loan to boost security during the summit in the French resort of Evian, were
rushed in to help their Swiss counterparts.

The demonstrators had been stopped at Geneva, which is close to the French
border and the town of Evian.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.
