
                               1 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday

Book Review: Riot: A Novel

BYLINE:  Mehr Tarar

SECTION: Vol. X No. 138

LENGTH: 1610  words


"The secret of great stories is that they have no secrets. Great stories are the
ones you have heard and want to hear again...They don't deceive you with thrills
and trick endings. They don't surprise you with the unforeseen...You know how
they end, yet you listen as though you don't...In great stories you know who
lives, who dies, who finds love and who doesn't; yet you want to know again.
That is their mystery and their magic" Arundhati Roy.

Once in years, one reads a story that stirs emotions lying dormant for what
seems like eons. The story, simple, almost stark, gleams plainly confident in
its contextual strength, of contents that are so commonplace, so real they leap
off the pages emboldened by the extraordinariness of their being situated in
that particular scene of that unwieldy book called life. The characters, each
cloaked in layered individuality, speak of unique dilemmas in such bare terms
that it becomes a collective narrative of all others like him/her of race, of
nation, of religion, of skin colour, of life playing games. The multi-chronicled
different faiths being used as instruments of division, of hatred, of death
connect to the hands of those with inscrutable visages, who do things that turn
lives upside down, irreversibly. The story opens darkly, like ominous thunder on
an inky night in a deserted island, and one turns pages quietly, dreading what
will happen to that lovely woman, with her bluer-than-the-ocean eyes, and the
love for a man she loves like no one else. The story of a woman who loves the
right man at the wrong time, in the right place at the wrong time of history.
Interwoven with religious mantras that become the raison d'etre to kill, uneasy
in the complexity of their stances, yet smooth as melted Häagen-Dazs mint
ice-cream, join to form the breathtakingly-structured novel called Riot, and the
story becomes one of those great stories you have heard, and want to hear again.
And again.

Riot written by the international diplomat-turned-politician-cum-writer Dr
Shashi Tharoor is one of those unassuming books one picks up absentmindedly,
then sits up and goes whoa...Riot is that good. It is simply one of those books
that takes one's breath away, and one rues not having read it all these years.
This is not a review of a much-read, 13-year-old book, eulogised by The
Washington Post, Chicago Tribune, and The Independent; this is simply my way of
celebrating one of the best books I have ever read, the response to which could
be one word: wow.

Dr Tharoor, writer of 12 other books, including the brilliant, wickedly smart,
the Mahabharata-meets-Indian-history The Great Indian Novel (mandatory reading
in several courses on post-colonial literature); a satirical comment on the
self-righteous profundity of Bollywood in Show Business, and The Five Dollar
Smile, a collection of stories so delightfully-varied in the response they
elicit it is hard to imagine one person penning them. Recipient of several
awards, including the Commonwealth Writers' Prize, named to India's highest
honour for Overseas Indians, the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman in 2004, the Pride of
India Award from the Zakir Husain Memorial Foundation, Tharoor stands out as one
of the most prolific and brilliant writers in recent times, his latest Pax
Indica garnering tremendous response globally.

The most significant aspect of Tharoor's prose to me is the sheer simplicity of
his writing. There are no literary gimmicks, intellectual webs to confuse,
word-trickery that gloats see-how-smart-I-am, insertion of stylistic flourishes.
As one opens any of Tharoor's books, there is a sense of the writer speaking to
one directly, slipping a hand into one's, gently guiding into a world that is
deeply personal yet intricately objective; characters role-playing, juxtaposing
inner conflicts, clamouring to appear serene; and narratives so simple the
simmering pain becomes that solitary tear that goes unnoticed by the person
seated next to one, or the smile that lights up a 15x20 room with a 200-watt
bulb. The imagery is startling in its effortless dedication to detail; the outer
world speaks noisily, pole-balancing emotions that play peek-a-boo with one life
or the other. There is playful, seductive interaction of thoughts and words,
transposing a simple hit into that cover drive that immortalises a Ganguly into
a Lara. There is intangible mastery of language employed so skilfully each page
stands on its own, delighting with its intellectual references, hyphenated by
glimpses-of-history, glamorised by contemporary bon mots and indented with the
quiet confidence of that genius of a painter whose simple brushstrokes create
work that is not just ooh-ahhed at but loved. As one smiles/gasps/aches while
reading, it is as if one sees the writer typing in some semi-darkened room when
he wrote those words: pouring a part of himself into creating that world,
embellished with his experiences, his response, his imagination. And that he
loves to write. He writes because it makes him happy, not in that
whooping-with-joy way, but a quiet, inward emotion that seems to say: I love
words. And the power of what they can do.

Set against the backdrop of India in 1989 when the Babri Masjid, said to be
built on the Janambhoomi of the Indian god Ram in Ayodhya, became a pretext to
incite, to kill, to establish the supremacy of Hinduism in Hindu-majority India,
Riot is Tharoor's masterful, straightforward attempt to comprehend how personal
faith became the tool to shatter the patina of unity of a nation into
smithereens of hatred. Riots broke. People were stabbed, shot, lynched, knifed.
Ayodhya, the religious site, became a black cesspool of blood, being spilled by
many chanting "Jo Janambhoomi ke kaam na aaye/Woh bekaar jawani hai." Seen
through the eyes of a Hindu fundamentalist, a Muslim scholar, an enlightened,
secular Hindu government servant, and a proud Sikh police officer, Riot looks at
the historical context of narratives, politicised down the ages, abused for
exploitative purposes, and playing upon people's emotional bonds to divine
faith. It is also about Sikhs rebelling against the state, being attacked,
killing Mrs Indira Gandhi and the innumerable butchered in revenge. How
Hinduism, the religion receptive to all viewpoints, has been contorted into an
instrument of narrow-minded bigotry to alienate others, marking them as
outsiders. This is the thread that permeates the entire narrative of Riot, which
seems to be Tharoor's introspective, very thoroughly-chronicled understanding of
history, to make sense of what bloodied India in the lead-up to the Ayodhya
riots that tragic 1989.

Riot is India as seen by 13 characters, each speaking markedly, trying to
decipher the chaos. Tharoor's use of different, distinctive narrative styles for
the different voices of its characters' contending narratives is the USP of
Riot's literary construction, each voice unique, while maintaining
interconnection through a common thematic thread. Brilliantly crafted, the story
is told by characters in monologues, in letters, in their minds, in their pained
hearts.

Riot is the India of Hindus, of Muslims, of Sikhs, and of all others who
co-exist in peace until they don't. It is the India that is of Hindus, of
Muslims who came from other places to make it their own, of Sikhs who feel like
outsiders in their homeland. It is jostling narratives of
Hinduism/Islam/Sikhism, my-god-is-bigger-than-your-god, and who has the right to
'own' India. It is those millions who live together, complacently different, yet
in sync with one other. It is about those few who for varied purposes use
religions that unite to create blood-lined schisms that rot into battles,
delineating the saffron from the green, razing mosques to build temples, turning
neighbours into bomb-carrying maniacs, throat-slitting strangers.

Riot is the India capitalistic foreigners try to cola-conquer, only to give up
making way for Campa-colas. It is India that some foreigners see for what is
regal, ancient, proud, palace/history-lined; over-populated, noisy,
poverty/beggars/sewers-riddled, growing exponentially, secular in its identity,
yet deeply religious. It is India some see as what it is: people existing
ordinarily, in the backdrop of hugely different
culture/language/history/perspectives, one day at a time, one life at a time. It
is India some foreigners fall in love with, only to discover nothing but
heartache there.

Riot is also the love-story of an American woman, Priscilla, and an Indian man,
Lakshman. It is Priscilla's story of her uneasy relationship with her father,
and Lakshman's arranged life with his wife he doesn't love and a child he can't
live without. It is Priscilla's story of feeling deeply for the lives of women
she tries to improve through her work, and Lakhshman's devotion to his
obligations. It is her story of forming bonds, and his dilemma of how to sever
the ones he has. It is her story of falling in love with an
'overworked/overweight/married' man, and his with a woman who gets his soul but
not the complexity of his existence. It is her story of creating her own little
space in a chaotic world where life zooms in on just two people, and his where
he writes poetry, outlining arabesques on her being. It is her story of that
extraordinary love that takes her breath away, and his where he learns to
breathe without her. It is their story that is so primal yet so complex, so
marked with the impossible, so beautiful with "...her each breath a whisper to
his heart", together, soul-mated in their little world, that it becomes one of
the most heartbreaking stories ever. And it haunts. For ages.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2013 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday

Urumqi and the fragility of the Chinese state

BYLINE: Meghnad Desai

LENGTH: 669  words


Many people believe that China will become the largest and most powerful economy
in the world by 2050. Martin Jacques, a creative British Marxist, has just
written a book When China Rules the World, in which he says that Middle Earth,
as China regards itself, will dominate the world. China will dominate, he
writes, because it has always been a single state-centuries before nation states
came into existence in Europe. He also regards the overwhelming domination of
Han Chinese (92 per cent of the population) as the reason why the communist
state still commands loyalty-the Han see the People's Republic as continuous
with the millennia old state. China, believes Jacques, will not become a Western
type liberal democracy. It will chart its own path.

When I debated this issue with Jacques on July 3, I demurred, adding two
caveats. One was not to project the present into the future uncritically and to
point out that strong as the Chinese state was, it could not deal with peaceful
protest of students in June 1989 and had to bring out tanks. No stable and
confident polity needs to do that.

Now we have in Urumqi, the living proof of the fragility of the Chinese state.
What happened between the local Uighur people and the immigrant Chinese was a
communal riot such as India is well-used to. The Uighur had heard that some of
their fellow ethnics had been victimised in Guangdong province and retaliated
against the Han Chinese who had migrated to Xinjiang province. The similarity of
this episode with Raj Thackeray's fulminations against North Indian and their
response to Marathi speakers in Bihar is uncanny.

But China did not have the usual democratic means to deal with differences. So
there were 156 dead and over a thousand injured. The Hans attacked the local
Uighurs and vice versa. As usual, outsiders were blamed, especially Raqiya
Kadeer, who has exiled herself to the US after suffering imprisonment for
building a prosperous business in Xinjiang. She is accused of plotting for
Xinjiang's independence. Police and army personnel were used quite ruthlessly
and so far, the suppression seems to have worked.

Chinese President Hu Jintao left the G8/G 20 summit in Italy. Maybe he could not
face the shame of the police brutality covered by many TV cameras. Or perhaps he
was more worried than he showed. But this must be an unprecedented embarrassment
for him. The Chinese brazened through the protests about the Olympic flame.
Tibet was in flames last year and this year it is Xinjiang. They are both large
and sparsely populated regions at the western end of China. They were never part
of the Han Empire. The Uighurs are Muslim and the Tibetans are Buddhist. Their
religions make the Chinese Communist Party uncomfortable. Their languages have
been downgraded if not suppressed. Their local culture is being set aside in
favour of Han modernisation. Beijing has encouraged the Han Chinese to move to
these sparsely settled regions (the 8 million Uighurs in Xinjiang are about half
the population.)

The trouble in Xinjiang or Tibet pales in comparison besides the multiple
problems India has faced as a nation-in Nagaland and the many other parts of the
North East, in Punjab with the Khalistan movement, in Jammu and Kashmir, the
Martahi Manoos in Mumbai and the recent riots against railway examinations in
Karnataka. The communal riots in 2002 Gujarat and 1984 Delhi have left much
injustice to be redressed. But there is a way of dealing with many of these
protests by a combination of force and democratic dialogue. China can deploy
force but cannot have the democratic dialogue.

China is a strong but a frightened state. It is too rigid to deal with real
differences. It can have a lot of infrastructure, make a lots of steel and
cement. It may go on doing that for a long time to come. Yet, it could also lose
out to dissidence. Like a Chinese vase, the state is strong but brittle. Whether
it breaks up or reinvents itself will be a fascinating question to speculate
about in the years to come.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            February 28, 2014 Friday

Concerned about communal violence in India: US

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Feb. 28 -- The United States continues to express concern about
communal violence in India, the Obama Administration has said strongly refuting
reports that it has gone soft on the Gujarat communal riots in 2002 and the
alleged role of its Chief Minister Narendra Modi.


 "I wouldn't characterise our assessment that way. I think you'll find if you
review the text that we're very clear about our concerns about several episodes
of communal violence across India," US State Department Spokesperson Jen Psaki
told reporters yesterday.
 Psaki was responding to a question on the latest annual Country Reports on
Human Rights Practices released by Secretary of State John Kerry.
 "If Modi was mentioned in previous human rights reports for India by name, and
(why) he is not mentioned in this one," she was asked.
 Paski said that there is no change in the US policy on communal riots in
Gujarat about a decade ago.
 Both the annual reports of the 2011 and 2012 mentions Modi in its report but it
no way refers to his role in the communal riots.
 The latest report said that, "Civil society activists continued to express
concern about the Gujarat Government's failure to protect the population or
arrest many of those responsible for communal violence in 2002 that resulted in
the killings of more than 1,200 persons, the majority of whom were Muslim,
although there was progress in several court cases," the report said.
 "The Gujarat Government appointed the Nanavati-Mehta Commission to investigate
the 2002 violence. In December the Gujarat Government granted an extension for
the 21st time, extending the commission to June 30, 2014," it said.
 The State Department said the Gujarat Government withdrew its consent to seek
the death penalty for former minister Maya Kodnani and others convicted in the
2002 Naroda Patiya violence that killed 97 Muslims.
 The investigating agency questioned the Gujarat Government's move in a petition
in the Supreme Court in June.
 Kodnani, the first senior politician to be convicted for 2002 violence, was
sentenced to a 28-year jail term for her involvement in the post-Godhra riots
case.
 The report also talked about last year's communal violence in the Muzaffarnagar
area of Uttar Pradesh that led to 65 reported deaths, 42,000 persons displaced,
and hundreds of injuries during the months of August and September.
 "The violence started with a sexual harassment incident between a Muslim man
and a Hindu Jat woman and escalated following a political meeting of officials
and others from more than 300 local villages during the weekend of September
7-8," it said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

Singapore bans late night liquor consumption at public places

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: Singapore


Singapore, April 1 -- Singapore today banned the sale and consumption of liquor
in public places during night, a first-of-its-kind restriction enforced in the
country which witnessed the worst street violence in 40 years by South Asian
workers who were under the influence of alcohol.


 A new law came into effect from today under which liquor sales will stop from
tonight at 10.30 pm. The restriction will be in place till morning 7 am.
 The Ministry for Home Affairs has also ordered the declaration of two Liquor
Control Zones in Geylang and Little India with effect from today under the
Liquor Control (Supply and Consumption) Act.
 The Act, which regulates the supply and consumption of liquor in public places,
was passed in Parliament on January 29. It will "minimise public disorder and
disamenities" arising from drinking in public, said the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA) in a statement.
 Both these areas, popular among foreign workers, will have additional
restrictions during weekends and public holidays.
 However, members of the public can continue to consume liquor at home and
within licensed premises such as restaurants, coffee shops or bars, in
accordance with the hours stipulated in the licences, it said.
 People can also continue to consume liquor at a public place if they have a
valid permit issued by the National Parks Board to organise a barbecue in a
national park.
 For events held in public places, organisers of these events may apply for a
consumption permit from the police if the events involve use of liquor during
the restricted hours, the statement said.
 But the retail sale of take-away liquor will not be allowed from 10.30 p.m. to
7 a.m. every day.
 Little India riot
 The December 8, 2013 Little India riot, involving South Asian migrant workers
was the worst street violence to hit the country in four decades.
 Most of the workers believed to be drunk, reacted violently to a fatal accident
involving a bus and an Indian national who was working in Singapore.
 Some 400 migrant workers were at the scene of the riot during which 23
emergency vehicles were damaged and 54 police officers injured. Fifty-two
Indians were deported from Singapore for their alleged involvement in the riots.

 Nevertheless, the police, according to the law, may grant an extension of
retail sale hours on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the propensity
for public disorder and disamenities in the locality.
 It has also allowed the supply of liquor on licensed premises such as
restaurants, coffee shops or bars can continue in accordance with existing
licensing hours and conditions.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                                Guardian Weekly

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

Guardian Weekly: Weekly review: Culture: Reviews: Exhibition: Sheela Gowra:
Therein and Besides, Iniva, Rivington Place, London

BYLINE: Skye Sherwin

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 430 words


While the hi-tech boom is transforming many of India's major cities, some
industries haven't changed at all. One such is making incense: India supplies
more than half of the world's incense sticks, as many as 60bn a year, but it
remains a cottage industry whose female labour force earns a pittance. Bangalore
artist Sheela Gowda (below), makes her own, creating what look like aerial views
of blighted rural landscapes or post-apocalyptic lily ponds with intensely
scented ash. Like the women who manufacture joss sticks in their homes, this
work is fragile: one wrong move and it could all blow away.

As well as using incense, Gowda has turned old bits of house timber into
battered versions of abstract sculpture and fashioned ropes of human hair into
looping drawings. Cow dung, thread, spice and oil drums have all been
transfigured in her installations, subtly bringing to light the workaday lives
of those living on the economic margins.

Gowda's interest in India's rural traditions goes back to her childhood: her
father was an archivist of Indian folk music and artefacts. She trained at
London's Royal College of Art in the 1980s, started out as a painter, but
changed the direction in the early 1990s. In response to cultural upheavals that
included the rise of the Hindu right wing, the Mumbai riots and India's uneven
economic development, she began making sculptures and installations that engaged
directly with the India around her.

Darkroom (2006) was a standout moment in London's Serpentine gallery's Indian
art survey, Indian Highway. Gowda transformed huge oil drums salvaged from
road-workers into a low dark hut resembling their makeshift homes. Once you
stepped inside, space became apparently infinite, with tiny pinpricks
transforming its ceiling into a starry night sky.

Snaking its way through the gallery space, And Tell Him of My Pain (1998) is a
vein-like installation: a dark mass of thread, stained with blood-coloured
kumkum arranged in elegant visceral tangles that end in a barbed posy of
needles. You can't tell by looking, but to make this work the artist had to pull
a 110-metre long thread through the eye of every single needle. They have a
quiet menace, fusing women's work and the suggestion of bodily violence. An
Untitled piece she created for the 2009 Venice Biennale also explores women's
exploited economic and cultural role. Here the black ropes hanging down the
gallery wall are made from human hair. Despite being shaved in ritual offering
at Tirupati's temples in southern India, these locks apparently end up in the
wig-making industry.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 28, 2004

SEHWAG RUNS RIOT AS INDIA TRIUMPH

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; SPORT; Pg. 79

LENGTH: 230 words


INDIA went on a batting blitz to make amends for Boxing Day's shock defeat,
trouncing Bangladesh by 91 runs in the third and final one-day international to
clinch the series 2-1.

Opener Virender Sehwag hit an explosive 70, Rahul Dravid struck a breezy 60,
Sourav Ganguly added 55 and Yuvraj Singh blasted a 32-ball 69 as the visitors
racked up 348-5. It was India's highest total against Bangladesh and their sixth
best in one-dayers.

Their bowlers then restricted Bangladesh to 257-9, only Rajin Saleh putting up
any resistance with a career-best 82 off 114 deliveries and Sachin Tendulkar
finishing with 4-54.

India, who won the series opener by 11 runs in Chittagong, lost by 15 runs on
Sunday after being bowled out for 214.

"After what happened, we played really well, " said Ganguly. "We were pretty
worked up, as we should have been. But I am hoping that was just a one-off and
not a regular thing."

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar said: "We hadn't played very well in the last
few series, but our performance here has provided a big confidence boost. We
batted well and the fielding was excellent, but we must bowl better."

NEW ZEALAND'S one-day international against Sri Lanka scheduled for today has
been postponed until January 11 to allow a five-day period of national mourning
after tidal waves killed more than 12,000 people on the island.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              10 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                Kashmir Observer

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

India Knows Kashmir Is "Very Big Problem"

LENGTH: 1603  words


The conflict is a major clog in South Asia and extremely divisive, and
Pakistanis aren't alone in this belief. India's actions suggest that it too
considers Kashmir a very big problem.

Coupled with the mainstream US media, even the counter media and international
media, having little appetite for Kashmir and a poisonous silence develops. The
few must keep attention directed towards the conflict, lest there be none. Last
week, when the Kashmiri American Council and Kashmir Centre and Association of
Humanitarian Lawyers recently hosted a conference in Washington, Indian media
reported that organizers miraculously "roped in a few US Congressmen to plug the
Pakistani line."

The US Congressional/lobby/media relationship with India and Kashmir mirrors
Israeli-Palestinian policy. It's a dark world.

Pakistani public opinion influences Pakistani officials as much as direct
relations with India and America, whose officials and supporters accuse
Islamabad of hiding its support for Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) behind Kashmir. But
Mumbai trials and Wikileaks don't negate Kashmir's legitimacy, and Pakistanis
demand that their leaders to stand up for Kashmir's determination. How else will
they gain the support to follow America in Afghanistan or compromise with India?

"For us the most important thing is the rights of the Kashmiri people - we are
committed to finding a resolution to the Kashmir dispute," US-Pakistani
ambassador Hussain Haqqani told the conference in Washington
(http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2010%5C07%5C30%5Cstory_30-7-2010_
pg7_12). "We look forward to a meaningful and result-oriented dialogue with
India on Kashmir."

He added that Kashmir is not a territorial dispute between two nations, but an
international conflict: "It is about 12 to 14 million people of Kashmir, it is
about Kashmiris' right to self-determination, about killings, rapes, torture and
mass graves."

A deep-rooted paradox, India needs assurances from Pakistan that it will cease
funding separatists groups, while Pakistan has no reason to believe India will
negotiate Kashmir's status. Kashmiris generally seek independence, which
Pakistan likely hopes to exploit as a proxy state. India, fearful of that
outcome, absolutely rejects parting with the contested Jammu and Kashmir. The
two poles came to a head when the latest Pakistan-Indian dialogue shut down
after one wanted to talk Kashmir and the other Mumbai.

Most Indian and US commentators criticized Pakistan
(http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/30/get-tough-on-pakistan.html) for taking the
easy way out, but India is doing the same by accusing Pakistan of duplicity with
LeT rather than addressing Kashmir's untenable status. Many assume that
Pakistan's double games sit on the wrong side of history, which may be true, but
so does any modern occupation. India's grip on Kashmir loosens the harder it
squeezes. Defiance to addressing the issue confirms that India does believe
Kashmir is a major obstacle to regional peace, that New Delhi knows it's losing
control and expects to lose control were it ever to negotiate Kashmir's status
with Pakistan or the UN.

And so it keeps silent, leveraging its geopolitical weight on Washington to do
the same while also containing Pakistan's activities in Kashmir.

But within India's government rages a contentious debate on Kashmir's response
and outlook. While some elements advocate harsher security measures,
back-channels between New Delhi and separatist political parties were already
active before Kashmir's latest violence. These talks were pursued as the
temperature rose in Srinagar, the region's capital. Unfortunately, as the
situation spiraled further out of control amid the breakdown between Pakistan
and India, these channels held faint hope of producing a cease-fire.

Going on two months of spirited protests, strikes, and riots, India recently
declared Srinagar calm after a momentary lull. But days ago four civilians
including a teenager were killed in various clashes
(http://www.indianexpress.com/news/4-killed-in-firing--Srinagar-under-curfew/654
202) with Indian security forces. India justified firing live rounds into
thousands of people by accusing protesters of throwing rocks. Having seemingly
learned nothing, the next day security forces killed two more protesters
(http://english.aljazeera.net/news/asia/2010/07/201073112412728349.html)
including another teenager. The next day nine more protesters were killed.

Mohammad Dilawar Mir, general secretary of the People's Democratic Party,
quipped of the latest incidents
(http://www.kashmirobserver.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=504
6:pdp-says-man-eater-govt-ruling-kashmir&catid=2:local-news&Itemid=3), "This
government seems to have become a man eater."

And because India refuses to translate its private reservations into public
action, Kashmir has slipped under increasing control of separatist authorities.
The arrangement is conducive to new fits of political strife and violence which,
in the absence of progress between parties, necessitates further security
crackdowns, which in turn spawn new protests and violence. Clearly an
unsustainable environment.

Now the hot topic in India is whether Kashmir remains under state control, a
sign that local Kashmiri authorities have already seized partial sovereignty.
The last two months ran on the Hurriyat (Geelani) calendar, a line-up of
shutdowns and protests created by Kashmir's political umbrella. State offices
and schools opened an estimated five days in July, and the Hurriyat has
explicitly advertised its calendar with the message that Indian authority "does
not run in the Valley."

"The Omar Abdullah government seems to have been reduced to a mute spectator,"
The Economic Times wrote
(http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics/nation/Shutdowns-protests-dis
rupt-normal-life-in-Valley/articleshow/6239555.cms) of Jammu and Kashmir chief
minister Omar Abdullah.

Several days ago Home Minister P. Chidambaram rejected the notion
(http://www.hindustantimes.com/Ready-to-talk-to-Kashmiri-groups-PC/Article1-5799
14.aspx) that India has lost control of Kashmir, as the regional government had
just reaffirmed control of the territory. "May be in Srinagar or some other
parts, they may be able to mobilize support and call bandhs," Chidambaram said
before qualifying, "according to the Jammu and Kashmir government, the situation
is near normal."

For starters the Jammu and Kashmir government doesn't have its fingers on
Kashmir's pulse, and near normal makes for overt political speak. India's
Congress is also reportedly upset
(http://www.hindustantimes.com/3-teams-to-monitor-Kashmir-s-strife-torn-district
s/Article1-580567.aspx) over the state's "handling of the situation," which has
"failed to break the cycle of violence." A senior Congress functionary said the
Jammu and Kashmir administration, "failed in containing the influence of
separatists whose writ runs large. The separatists are calling the shots. They
are virtually running a parallel administration. It's a matter of serious
concern."

As of this moment Kashmiris' own actions represent the best chance of altering
the status quo, however high the price in blood. Washington will presumably stay
out of the conflict unless it turns particularly nasty; silence greeted the
latest killings. And while elements within India demand negotiations with
Kashmir's political parties, the only actions taken continue to be
security-related. After appealing for calm Abdullah hinted at continual curfews
and security measures to break up protests.

Meanwhile security forces are hunting Masrat Alam, the Hurriyat leader who
designs the calendar, as if catching him will resolve the factors of Kashmir's
instability.

India's singular problem is a lack of credibility; few Kashmiris give it the
benefit of the doubt. Any crackdown will be perceived as oppression, any
political feelers treated as disingenuous. India's actions have eliminated
popular support for a dialogue with New Delhi, making negotiating that much
harder. Kashmiris surely laugh at Abdullah's suggestion that
(http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/default.asp?page=2010%5C07%5C30%5Cstory_30-7-2010_
pg7_8), "Lock-outs and strikes only lead to public discomfort and badly tell
upon the education of our children. These tactics are in no way in anybody's
interest. These only mar the livelihood opportunities of the poor and hamper the
process of economic growth."

To Kashmiris only India does these things. Their tactics favor their interests
plenty, boiling the issue and creating division within New Delhi and with
Kashmir's regional government. Though their short-term interests may be
inhibited, shutting down the territory could be Kashmiris' sole means of
achieving freedom in the long-term.

India can keep cracking down - at its own peril. But with the Naxalite rebellion
killing increasing numbers of Indian security forces and obstructing economic
investments, the moment has finally come to address and resolve Kashmir's
status. Such a long process needs to start sooner than later. Preliminary
measures should focus on restoring confidence, starting with a freeze on
oxymoronic security crackdowns, and build into negotiations between Kashmiris,
New Delhi, and Islamabad. From here Mumbai and Kashmiri separatist groups can be
properly tackled.

India knows Kashmir is "very big problem" just like Pakistanis do. Time to treat
it like one.

James Gundun is a political scientist and counterinsurgency analyst based in
Washington D.C. Contact him in The Trench, a realist foreign policy blog,
atwww.hadalzone.blogspot.com (http://www.hadalzone.blogspot.com/).

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2010 Kashmir Observer, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday

Rethink the communal violence bill

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 2813  words


The communal violence bill prepared by the National Advisory Council (NAC) seeks
fundamentally to change how the government deals with violence against
minorities. The bill focuses on religious and linguistic minorities as well the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, but religious minorities are at its
heart. The bill has some undeniable strengths, but it suffers from two
analytically fatal flaws. First, it places excessive faith in the state
machinery. Though attached to the government, the NAC's primary function is to
express civil society concerns. Civil society normally checks the powers of the
state. It is profoundly ironical that the bill asks for a substantial expansion
of state bureaucracy. Second, the bill assumes that India's future will be an
extension of its riot-infested past, a deeply implausible point for reasons
articulated below. Parliament should reject the bill.

Before I develop my critique, let me begin with a word of admiration. The
largest part of public commentary thus far has concentrated on whether
minorities require special protection against violence, as the bill purports to
do. The NAC is right; the critics are wrong.

Minority protection

The question of minority rights has a fraught and embattled history in political
thought. The cultural right is often opposed to giving legal recognition to the
concept of minorities, saying it prevents the minorities from assimilation,
instead promoting communal division, even separatism. This is fundamentally the
Hindu nationalist critique of the bill.

But it is not only the cultural right that takes this view. Radical liberals
also reject the notion of group rights and protections. For radical liberals,
citizenship is an individual right, and individuals should be allowed freely to
choose their identities. Group entitlements imprison individuals and societies,
inexorably pushing them towards dangerous collective identities.

By comparison, the Hindu nationalist argument is majoritarian, not rooted in
individual freedom. For them, it is Hindu values that define India's national
culture, and laws should promote assimilation of minorities to the nation's
presumed Hindu centre, not perpetuate a minority mindset. Their reasons might be
different, but the cultural right and the radical liberals normally have a
seemingly unlikely alliance on this matter.

On minority rights, we also have a tradition of moderate liberalism. A moderate
liberal asks: Is a person from the minority community simply a citizen like
others? Is a rich minority simply an aggregation of rich citizens, or can it
still suffer from some serious disabilities?

Not simply in pre-modern history, but also in modern times, it has been easy to
turn groups that the mainstream of a society looks down upon, or dislikes, into
objects of collective violence. Even richer minorities have suffered such fates.
Think of the Tamils in Sri Lanka, the Indians in Uganda, the Chinese in Malaysia
and Indonesia, the Sikhs in Delhi after Indira Gandhi's assassination, and
Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley in the early 1990s.  This realisation - that even
modern societies can easily slip into majoritarianism - is the basis for the
moderate liberal claim that minorities need special protection.

Does this position imply that minorities can do no wrong? Is the majority
community always to blame? By the 1940s, thinking long and hard about this
question, Jawaharlal Nehru had started distinguishing between minority
communalism and majority communalism.  Both were bad, but majority communalism
was infinitely worse. Nehru detested Jinnah's communalism, but called Hindu
communalism the greatest danger to India. Why?

Unless one carefully watches, majority communalism and nationalism tend to get
conflated. Following the logic that the majority community is the prime, or the
only, owner of the nation, such seamless morphing is quite common. Many
Sinhalese say that they define Sri Lanka, not the Tamil minority; many Malays
contend that they are the sons of the soil in Malaysia, not the Chinese; Hitler
argued that Jews could never be Germans; supporters of mass murderers in Gujarat
(2002) called violence against Muslims an act of patriotism; the killing of
Sikhs in 1984 was also described in several circles as an assertion of Indian
nationalism. Two Sikhs had after all assassinated the prime minister, the
highest elected official, thus desecrating the nation.

Because of these dangers, the key question for moderate liberals is not about
the abstract first principles: namely, should democratic rights be individually
based or group-based? Rather, we ask a historically necessary practical
question: How can one expect minorities to be patriotic, if they are by
definition excluded from the joint ownership of the nation, and violence against
them is permitted as a legitimate act or, worse, viewed as service to the
nation?

This position does not imply that minority communalism ought to be ignored.
Nehru had harsh words to say about Muslim organisations and leaders during a
Hindu-Muslim riot in Aligarh in 1954, and wanted those organisations punished.
My own research in Hyderabad uncovered many instances when Muslim organisations
were egregiously complicit in riots. Hyderabad's mass killers came in both hues,
Hindu and Muslim; Hindus had no monopoly over rioting. Other researchers came to
similar conclusions. Agar Hindu pachees Musalman marenge, said Hyderabad's
Muslim wrestlers to Sudhir Kakar, a psychologist who also researched violence,
to hum chhabbees Hindu marenge - yeh jo riot hai, woh one-day cricket ki tarah
hota hai (if the Hindus kill 25 Muslims, we will kill 26 Hindus - a riot is like
a one-day cricket game).

Moderate liberalism does not willfully disregard the violent misconduct of
minorities; it only points to the infinitely greater subversive potential of
majority communalism. Though real, Hyderabad and Aligarh are less common; the
nearly helpless Muslims of Ahmedabad, Baroda, Moradabad, Meerut, slaughtered
mercilessly in riots, have been more typical. Riots have indisputably killed
many times more Muslims than Hindus in post-1947 India.

In sum, therefore, fundamentally because of the easy, though erroneous, equation
of majorities with nationhood, a democracy must protect its minorities from
violence. The NAC is right to emphasise the vulnerability of minorities and to
stress that the Indian state can behave in a highly majoritarian fashion. But do
we need a new law and a new bureaucracy to make that point?

Should civil servants be liable?

The second important aspect of the bill is its insistence that if "communal and
targeted violence" against minorities takes place, it will automatically be
assumed that the civil servant in charge of law and order has not exercised
"lawful authority vested in him or her under law" and he or she "shall be guilty
of dereliction of duty". The bill makes civil servants legally liable for riots.
They will be fired, demoted or reprimanded, if a riot takes place on their
watch.

At one level, this is a welcome insistence. Quite often, IAS or IPS officers
have looked at political masters before deciding how to deal with a riot, even
though the rule-book makes it clear that the responsibility of law and order at
the ground level lies with the civil servant, not with the politician. By making
the civil servant liable, the bill seeks to strengthen the civil servant against
the politician. The NAC's assumption is that if civil servants were personally
liable for riots, there is a greater chance they would act according to the
rule-book, not wait for political signals from above.

But this assumption can only be half-right. The NAC has not confronted a factual
question. Why has Aligarh been so riot-prone, whereas Bulandshahr, a town next
door, has rarely had a communal riot? Why have Meerut and Morabadad been so
communally nasty, whereas the neighbouring Muzaffarnagar and Bareilly hardly
ever witnessed a communal riot after independence? Did Aligarh, Meerut and
Moradabad have riots because the civil servants stationed there ignored, or
supported, the killing of Muslims, or is there something about the local
relations of Hindus and Muslims in these towns that made them riot-prone?

Indeed, during 1950-95, as I calculated in my book on communal violence, a mere
eight cities of India - Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Hyderabad, Aligarh, Meerut,
Delhi and Kolkata - had nearly 46 per cent of all deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots.
Did these eight cities have repeated "dereliction of duty" by civil servants?
Did the peaceful cities have especially duty-driven officials and police forces?

To be sure, there are enough cases of officials ignoring their duties during
riots. Delhi after Mrs Gandhi's assassination and Gujarat 2002 have already been
cited. More examples can easily be added. But it is also worth inquiring whether
that is the only reason riots took place.

When I asked why he succeeded in keeping peace in smaller towns of Maharashtra
but, in 1984, failed to prevent an awful communal riot in Mumbai and later in
Ahmedabad, Julio Ribeiro, an outstanding police officer of post-1947 India whose
commitment to duty has never been questioned, said that there was something
about how social and economic life was organised in Mumbai and Ahmedabad, which
made his task enormously difficult.  The same question - why riots in some
places, not in others - elicited an identical answer from most police officers
and civil administrators I interviewed in my 10-year long study of communal
violence. Would the NAC fire a Ribero, and others like him, for their inability
to prevent riots?

Riots are jointly produced. They are, in part, an outcome of how the police
officials and civil administrators have performed their constitutionally
assigned functions. Rioting is also, in part, a result of how social and
economic life is organised in a town, whether Hindus and Muslims are segregated
or integrated, and what incentives or capacities such local structures have
created for politicians, always in search of political gains, to inflame and
polarise, or calm and unite, local communities. The same IAS officer who
functioned well in Warangal often felt helpless in Hyderabad. The NAC would like
to give more powers to the civil servant. But if riots are jointly produced by
the state and society, dealing with one side of the equation is surely not
enough.

Indeed, the NAC needs to be given another reminder about the limits of state
power. Aren't state capacity and governance in the US, Britain and France much
higher than in India? Yet the US could not prevent the so-called Rodney King
riots in 1992, Britain witnessed racial rioting in the 1980s, and Arab migrants
in France rioted in 2005. Los Angeles, Brixton and Paris burned, while the
police wielded their batons and even shot to discipline the crowds. If making
the state more powerful and/or rule-governed were the solution to rioting, the
world would be an easier place to govern.

A new bureaucracy for communal harmony, justice and reparation?

The bill also envisions creation of a new set of state institutions: a National
Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and Reparation, headquartered in Delhi.
The National Authority will have seven members, supported by a "Secretary
General, who shall be an officer of the rank of the Secretary to the Government
of India".  Presumably, the members will have the rank of ministers of state and
the chairperson will be of full ministerial rank. The National Authority will be
given police and investigative staff when necessary; it can investigate the
conduct of army officers during riots; it will have the powers of a civil court
for inquiry and investigation; and all district magistrates and police
commissioners will be required to report to it on matters concerning communal
violence. There will be corresponding institutions at the state level, too. A
massive bureaucracy will thus be created.

This great institutional proposal invites a basic question: Does the NAC expect
the future of India to be as riot-ridden as India's past has been? Massive
law-and-order bureaucracies are normally created to deal with a frequently
recurring problem, not for something highly infrequent or rare. We need to ask
if riots will be occasional episodes, or regular occurrences, in the coming
years. If riots are going to be occasional, we can't justify the creation of a
huge permanent bureaucracy.

To treat the future as a mechanical extension of the past is almost always an
awful mistake. The future is basically uncertain. That is why we use
probabilistic, odds-based reasoning about the future.

What can we say about the odds of rioting in India in the next 10, 20 or 30
years? A vast amount of cross-country research on riots and civil wars has been
published in recent years. And a large conclusion has emerged.  According to
worldwide evidence, riots are regular occurrences at low levels of national
income, but only occasional episodes at middle and high incomes.

On why this is so, the research is not conclusive. But two hypotheses have been
considered reasonable.  First, as incomes rapidly rise, popular aspirations
change and a desire for material advancement, perhaps always present, becomes
more realistic. It is possible to envision a better economic future, if many
others around are rising. As a result, a new politics of aspirations emerges,
shrinking space for politicians to mobilise groups for communal riots.  With
rising prosperity, issues in politics begin to change. Communal discontent does
not fully disappear, but it begins to take the form of higher-technology
terrorism as opposed to low-tech mass riots. Once that happens, a riot-
bureaucracy is incapable of handling the problem. Second, at higher national
incomes, state capacities also increase and governance improves. The NAC
believes that the latter is not happening in India and that may be true.  But it
shows no understanding of the rising politics of aspirations, which India is
beginning to see, as it moves economically forward. Indeed, this could well be
an important reason India has witnessed no big riots since 2002.

A preponderant majority of India's riots took place, when India was a low-income
country. India has now become a middle-income country and is growing faster than
ever before. To the extent we can make predictions on the basis of research,
riots will increasingly be a matter of India's past, not its future. While it is
not impossible for this prediction to be wrong, it will be a great surprise if
communal riots returns to India in a big way, as the nation rises up the income
ladder. The basic point is that we can't create a huge bureaucracy with
unprecedented powers on the basis of a low-odds scenario.

The NAC appears to be a prisoner of India's past, especially of Gujarat 2002.
What happened in Gujarat was a crushing embarrassment for all liberal Indians
and every effort should be made to punish the guilty, but to build a new
bureaucracy to prevent another Gujarat 2002, which is in any case unlikely in
the future, will be a terrible mistake.

Indeed, the creation of such a bureaucracy and law might create perverse
incentives. Conflict research shows that many people settle petty personal
scores in ethnic violence, pretending that a larger ethnic cause is being
served. If public servants are made liable for riots, those opposed to them, for
whatever reason, might have an incentive to touch off riots - to punish a civil
servant they did not like. Thus, even though the normal tendency is for the
incidence of riots to go down at higher levels of income, the creation of a
riots bureaucracy might counteract that trend. We could reinvent a problem,
which would otherwise naturally decline.

A final point is in order. A distinction needs to be drawn between riots and
prejudice. The fact that riots decline at higher levels of income does not mean
that prejudice and discrimination necessarily go down. After the 1960s, the US
has seen very few riots, but African Americans still end up in jail
disproportionately. Rich today, Malaysia has had no big riots since 1969, when
it was poor, but discrimination against the Chinese and Indians continues.
Prejudice also sometimes takes the form of hate crimes, including those
perpetrated by the police, both in the US and Malaysia, but riots are few and
far between.

The question for India is obvious. Riots may well decline in India in the
future, but will prejudice and discrimination against the Muslims, Dalits and
Adivasis also go down? That is a bigger question than riots. But it requires
construction of an anti-discrimination law and an equal opportunity commission,
not a new bureaucracy to prevent riots.

Varshney teaches political science at Brown University and is the author of
'Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in India'

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                             Premium Official News

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

US Court Throws out Case Against Narendra Modi

LENGTH: 474  words

DATELINE: Beijing


The Government of China has issued the following news release:

Back in September 2014, with less than 24 hours to go before the start of Prime
Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the United States, the U.S. Federal Court of
the Southern District of New York issued a summons against the Indian leader for
his alleged involvement and complicity in the 2002 Godhra riots. The summons was
issued in connection with a lawsuit filed by the American Justice Center (AJC),
which represented two survivors of the Gujarat violence in 2002. Modi was the
chief minister of the Indian state when the riots occurred. Hundreds of people
were killed in the riots, mostly Muslims.

Earlier this week, on Wednesday, a U.S. judge dismissed a lawsuit against Modi
after the U.S. government argued that he is immune to accusations as a sitting
head of government. Additionally, New York judge Analisa Torres noted that Modi
did not come under the jurisdiction of her court. A "sitting head of state's
immunity from jurisdiction is based on the Executive Branch's determination of
official immunity without regard to the specific conduct alleged," she ruled.

Judge Torres rejected the plaintiff's claim that the Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act (FSIA) did not cover Modi as he held the position of chief
minister at the time of the riots. Additionally, she ruled that the FSIA covered
individual government officials, not merely states.

According to the Hindustan Times, Joseph Whittington, the president of the AJC,
had noted earlier that even if the case was thrown out, it would mark a victory
due to its "symbolism."

The AJC's initial filing claimed that Modi condoned crimes against humanity,
extra-judicial killings, and torture against victims of the 2002 riots in
Gujarat, who were mostly Muslims. The filing of the lawsuit was widely
publicized in India during Modi's U.S. visit, drawing criticism from the prime
minister's supporters. Modi's U.S. trip was the first by the Indian leader since
he was denied a U.S. visa in 2005 over his alleged involvement int he riots.

As a candidate for prime minister and even as chief minister, Modi denied all
accusations made against him over his role in the riots. The 2002 riots have
become a constant point of emphasis for the prime minister's domestic and
international critics. Modi, who leads India's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya
Janata Party (BJP), is sometimes portrayed as hostile to India's religious
minorities.

Significantly, the decision to throw out the case comes ahead of U.S. President
Barack Obama's scheduled visit to India at the end of January to attend India's
Republic Day celebrations as the chief guest. The visit will be the U.S.
president's second to India during his time in office.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Players locked in hotel as trouble hits Birmingham

BYLINE: Derek Pringle

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 314 words


England's cricket team were locked in their Birmingham city centre hotel last
night as the riots which began in London spread to the Second City.

England's third Test against India is scheduled to begin at Edgbaston tomorrow
but the players have already expressed their concern about what they have seen
on their doorstep. Kevin Pietersen put a picture on his Twitter account showing
riot police and added the message: "They have just locked our hotel in
Birmingham. Riots just started here...Insane.!!

Bowler Tim Bresnan also tweeted: "Just seen the rioters in Birmingham fleeing
down the main street followed by police in the full get-up. What's going on?"
The England players were ordered to stay in their hotel, the Hyatt Regency,
after 9.30pm.

Meanwhile, Bresnan is certain to retain his place and play in the third Test.
Chris Tremlett failed to train with England at Edgbaston yesterday. The worry
now is that Tremlett will not recover from his back and hamstring problems in
time for the final Test, which starts on Aug 18 on his home ground of the Oval,
a place traditionally suited to bowlers with his height and pace.

Bresnan replaced Tremlett, who had been part of England's first-choice attack
since the Perth Test last winter, in the second Test at Trent Bridge.

The Yorkshireman's barnstorming all-round performance contributed to England's
win, but his place for this match would not have been guaranteed if Tremlett had
recovered.

Now that he has not, Bresnan can attempt to extend his extraordinary record of
having won every one of the eight Tests he has played in.

Neither bowler has played a Test at Edgbaston before, so the relative merits of
one over the other cannot be made with respect to the conditions. But Bresnan's
dependability and his bullying of India's middle-order with well-directed
bouncers would have had considerable support even if Tremlett had been fit.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 17, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 3

Tibetans celebrate end of 'bad old days' with new festival

BYLINE: Jane Macartney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 487 words


Fifty years after the Dalai Lama fled into exile and the local government was
dissolved by the Chinese, Tibet is to celebrate a new holiday: Serfs'
Emancipation Day.

China is eager to improve its international image after a riot in Lhasa last
March resulted in the deployment of the army in many Tibetan regions as the
unrest spread. The new commemoration is meant to remind the world of the feudal
system that had persisted for centuries in Tibet - the Dalai Lama has said that
he would not want to see a return to that era.

The date chosen by the regional government for Tibet's new celebration will be
March 28, with the first commemoration held this year.

Gelek, a Tibetan academic working with the Chinese Government in Beijing,
welcomed the decision, saying that there was already a risk that young Tibetans
no longer knew about the dark days when the Dalai Lama, the monasteries and
aristocrats ruled the region with a rod of iron. "We should have made this
decision half a century ago when democratic reforms were introduced. This comes
not a day too soon." Some Tibetan scholars showed less enthusiasm for Beijing's
attempt to dampen support for the Dalai Lama in Tibet by focusing attention on
the region's feudal past while highlighting the economic benefits brought by
Chinese rule.

The move is likely to anger Tibetans who still revere their exiled god-king -
even half a century after he fled to India. The timing is particularly sensitive
since March is a month filled with anniversaries of previous uprisings -
including last year's riot, and the 1959 rebellion that was finally suppressed
by the army with the deaths of nearly 100,000, according to official Chinese
figures. Many more were jailed for years for their role.

Norbu Dawang, a Tibetan scholar at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in
Beijing, hinted that such a decision should be taken with care.

"This could serve to create an invisible wall, another barrier between Tibetans
and exiled Tibetans." But, he added, if the commemoration meant more visitors to
Tibet, then it could improve understanding of the region.

His words of caution were drowned out by a chorus of support from Tibetan
government officials and other Tibetan academics who may owe their position to
patronage from ethnic

Han Chinese authorities. Tudeng Caiweng, proposing the resolution to the
regional rubber-stamp parliament in Lhasa, said: "The Dalai clique is still
dreaming at all times to restore the system of serfdom, which was a reactionary,
dark, brutal and backward clerical regime."

Invasion and exile

1950 A military campaign to consolidate control of the territory begins
September 1951 Thousands of Chinese troops enter Lhasa March 1959 During a
widespread rebellion the Dalai Lama leaves Tibet to claim asylum in India 1989
Dalai Lama awarded the Nobel Peace Prize March 2008 Riots break out in Lhasa,
about 22 people were killed Source: freetibet.org

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Official Chinese photos in 1964 showed Tibetan children of 'serfs and
slaves'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let voters Judge me over deadly [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 13 words


Let voters Judge me over deadly riots, India's poll favourite tells critics Page
47

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 28, 2007 Friday

Clarke leads run riot as India feel the heat;
CRICKET

BYLINE: ANDREW HODGSON

SECTION: A; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 467 words


MICHAEL CLARKE led the way as Australia piled on the agony for India in
Melbourne today. Clarke top-scored with 73 before the Aussies declared on 351
for seven in their second innings.

The visitors, set a formidable victory target of 499, reached six without loss
by the close but need to pull out all the stops if they are to save the First
Test.

With two days still to go, a draw is their best hope. India's highest fourth
innings winning total is 406, achieved against the West Indies in Port of Spain
in 1976, and the largest score by a victorious side batting last in any Test
remains the Caribbean side's 418 to beat Australia four years ago.

Clarke took advantage of India's wilting attack but was stumped off legspinner
Anil Kumble as he pushed for quick runs ahead of the declaration, which came
after Brad Hogg had scored an unbeaten 35, his highest in Tests.

Phil Jacques hit his sixth consecutive half-century and Andrew Symonds
bludgeoned four fours and two sixes before he was trapped in front by Zaheer
Khan for 44.

Matthew Hayden scored 47 and Mike Hussey chipped in with 36.

Meanwhile, Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland confirmed they are
still committed to a tour of Pakistan next year.

Despite violence following the assassination of political leader Benazir Bhutto,
Sutherland said: "I don't think from our perspective that anything much has
changed.

"We're very aware of our commitment to tour Pakistan but at the same time we
have absolutely as top priority the safety and security of our players and
employees."

SOUTH AFRICA went into the third day of the First Test against the West Indies
requiring another 87 runs to avoid a possible follow-on in Port Elizabeth.

West Indian pacemen Daren Powell and Jerome Taylor reduced the home side to 122
for five, with Herschelle Gibbs, Graeme Smith and Jacques Kallis among the
batsmen out.

Powell had Gibbs caught behind in the first over of the innings for a duck. He
then bowled Hashim Amla and had

Ashwell Prince caught in the slips to end the second day with figures of three
for 40.

Taylor trapped Smith leg before and then captured the vital wicket of Kallis,
who failed to leave a delivery and was caught in the slips for nought .

Shivnarine Chanderpaul earlier scored 104 in the West Indies total of 408 and,
in doing so, became only the third player to score half-centuries in seven
consecutive Test innings..

NEW ZEALAND took a 2-0 lead in their one-day series against Bangladesh with a
102-run victory under the Duckworth- Lewis system in Napier.

Peter Fulton led the way with 83 in the Kiwi's total of 335 for five, with Jacob
Oram smashing a rapid half-century.

Bangladesh were 181 for six when rain stopped play. New Zealand fast bowler Mark
Gillespie conceded 16 runs in his only over before retiring with a shoulder
injury..

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Take cover:Michael Clarkehits out on hisway to a topscore of kg
inMelbournetoday beforeAustralia setIndia a targetof hmm to win the First Test

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

Indian rights body condemns "indifferent" Gujarat over riots

LENGTH: 276 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 12 March: In a severe criticism of the Gujarat government on relief
and rehabilitation of the victims of the post-Godhra riots, the India's National
Human Rights Commission has said the state has been "indifferent" in tackling
the issue and the compensation paid to the people displaced by the riots was
"grossly inadequate".

The commission, in its annual report for 2003-04 tabled recently in parliament,
states that it has continued to be concerned about the relief, rehabilitation
and resettlement of the victims of the communal violence in Gujarat.

The NHRC said it had proposed several measures for relief and rehabilitation of
riot victims but the experience of the commission has been that the state
government has been less than forthcoming or cooperative in responding to the
recommendations, that included setting up a Grievance Redressal Authority (GRA).
It said that the report of the state chief secretary sent to the commission in
September 2003 in response to the recommendations made by the NHRC was "more
intended to block any action on the issues suggested by the commission than to
address them".

Meanwhile, the commission's special rapporteur, when consulted on the issue of
setting up a GRA, stated that the compensation paid to those displaced in the
riots was grossly inadequate. As per the report of the police, the total damage
to properties was to the tune of 6.87bn rupees, whereas the state government had
distributed only 563.7m rupees to the affected persons, which works out to just
about nine per cent of the loss.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0458 gmt 12 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

WORLD ECONOMY OECD warning as stagflation goes global

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 793 words


THE OECD's early warning signal is flashing clear signs of economic weakness
across the world, with mounting evidence that China, India, and Brazil may soon
succumb to the downturn.

The closely-watched gauge - known as the Composite Leading Indicators (CLI) -
has picked up a sharp deterioration in the eurozone in March, notably in Italy
and France, where the advance signals are falling even faster than in Britain.
The measure tends to anticipate the industrial cycle by about six months.

While growth continues to power ahead in most emerging markets, rampant
inflation is starting to damage business confidence. "The latest data point to a
potential downturn in Brazil, China, and India,'' said the OECD, the club of
rich nations.

Russia is the only country still in full boom among the so-called BRIC quartet
of rising powers, but the country's inflation rate reached 14.3pc in April as
oil and gas wealth the flooded the economy.

Price pressures across the emerging world are reaching levels that may soon
threaten stability unless governments jam on the brakes. Inflation rates have
reached: Venezuela (22pc), Vietnam (21pc), Latvia (18pc), Qatar (17pc), Pakistan
(17pc), Egypt (16pc) Bulgaria (15pc), The Emirates (11pc), Estonia (11pc),
Turkey (9.7), Saudi Arabia (9.6pc), Indonesia (9pc), Argentina (8.9pc), Romania
(8.6pc), China (8.5pc), Philippines (8.3pc), India (7.6pc).

Many of these countries are now suffering the worst prices spiral in thirty
years, setting off widespread riots. India's government has suspended futures
for a clutch of key commodities as states resort to draconian measures.

While the soaring cost of food and energy is the key driver for the poorest
countries, others are ensnared by their own currency pegs. Most Gulf states are
linked to the dollar, forcing them to shadow the US Federal Reserve's
super-loose interest rate policy, with inevitable over-heating. China operates a
semi-fixed rate, or "dirty float''.

Christian Noyer, governor of the Bank of France, said this week that the pegs
had become a major headache. "The world environment has become very
inflationary. Many emerging economies are partially 'importing' US monetary
policy, although their position in the economic cycle is fundamentally
different,'' he said.

Stock markets have already fallen sharply in China, India, and Vietnam as the
authorities rein in credit. Morgan Stanley has advised clients to cut their
holdings of emerging market stocks, warning that surging prices have started to
queer the pitch - at least in the "near term''.

Europe faces an incipient "stagflation'' as inflation of 3.3pc combines in a
nasty cocktail with slowing growth. The mix poses an acute dilemma for the
European Central Bank. It fears that 1970s-style inflation could become lodged
in the system as workers push for higher wage deals. Jean-Claude Trichet, the
ECB's president, warned of a return to "mass unemployment'' if Europe repeats
the errors of the 1970s. "We would make an enormous mistake, which is precisely
the mistake we made in the first oil shock,'' he said.

The ECB's task is doubly complicated by the yawning gulf between the Germanic
and Latin blocs of the eurozone. Industrial output fell in Italy, France, and
Spain in March. April manufacturing orders fell at the fastest rate since the
dotcom bust in Italy and Spain. "We're suffering a clear and profound slowdown
in the Spanish economy,'' said Pedro Solbes, the country's finance minister.

The issue of Spain's crumbling property market intruded on the bank's policy
agenda last week, pitting the South against Bundesbank chief Axel Weber. It is
understood that the meeting broke down into a fierce exchange of national views,
ignoring the EU treaty requirement that the ECB focus on the eurozone as a
whole. EU officials have begun to ask whether Mr Weber is committed to monetary
union. A senior German advisor told a closed group of investors in London last
week that "it wouldn't matter in the least if Spain left the euro''. David
Bloom, currency chief at HSBC, said the single currency was likely to fall as
investors woke up to the realities in the South.

Critics say the ECB has been fretting too much about inflation and not enough
about the risk of a slowdown later this year and into 2009 if monetary policy is
kept too tight. The bank has held rates at 4pc since the credit crisis began,
even though its own survey points to a lending squeeze. Three-month Euribor
rates - which set many financial contracts - are still at distress levels of
4.85pc, roughly 60 basis points above par.

ECB officials say their mandate does not allow them to look beyond the energy
spike and cut rates pre-emptively. The risk is it will overreact to the spike,
setting off a debt deflation down the road.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                          September 14, 2006, Thursday

Bombs fail to incite as Indian imams urge calm

BYLINE: Mark Sappenfield Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


The smell of explosives was still lingering in the air when the discussion
began. Malegaon's streets had just been seared by three bombs that killed at
least 30 people, and as the crowds began to seethe with anger, the city's most
revered Muslim leaders gathered to decide what to do.

There was little question about the purpose of last week's attack: Malegaon is
one of India's few Muslim-majority cities, and the bombs were planted near a
mosque on a holy day when thousands of worshipers would come to pray.

Yet even before police arrived, the imams had made a choice. They used the
loudspeakers of their mosques to spread a blanket of audible calm over the
frayed city, imploring patience and forbearance. And for the second time in two
months, a bombing apparently designed to ignite Hindu-Muslim riots failed.

For a nation whose past has lurched from one riot to another, the response to
this summer's bombings in Malegaon and Mumbai (Bombay) is no small shift,
suggesting that - at least for the moment - the forces of calm are eclipsing
those that would sow chaos.

The balance is a tenuous one at best, and experts do not suggest that India has
put its violent past behind it. Even Wednesday, police found an unexploded bomb
in Malegaon, though it was not yet clear whether the device was new or had
simply failed to go off in the initial attack. But some say that an array of
factors - from imams voicing reason in Malegaon to a less divisive political
discourse nationwide - has helped India break its cycle of revenge violence in
recent years.

"With all these things, the timing has to be right," says Dipankar Gupta, a
sociologist at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. For anger to kindle
into a riot, he adds, "all the pieces have to fit."

Those pieces have not fallen into place since the Gujarat riots of 2002, when
more than 1,000 Muslims were killed in response to an attack on a trainload of
Hindu religious campaigners. The nationwide revulsion at the atrocities
committed there has partly laid the groundwork for today's more inclusive
political tone, some say.

An improved political climate

Though the extremist elements of the Hindu right are still a potent force in
India, "the political climate is much more conducive to tolerance," says Teesta
Setalvad, editor of the magazine Communalism Combat.

In the past year alone, terrorists aiming to weaken and divide India have bombed
a Hindu temple in Varanasi and preparations for a Hindu festival in New Delhi.
The lack of riots points to the fact that, for the time being, the political
calculus has changed.

"As much as people like to make out that riots are spontaneous, they are rarely
spontaneous," says Ms. Setalvad, agreeing with several other experts. "The
parties responsible for hatemongering are on a downward slide."

Riots throughout Indian history

In the past, riots have been common enough to become waymarks of Indian history.
The birth of India in 1947 brought its separation from Pakistan - and the
related riots that killed at least 2 million Indians and Pakistanis. After
former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards in
1984, more than 3,000 Sikhs were killed in Delhi alone, according to a
government inquiry.

More recently, Mumbai descended into riots in 1992 after the destruction of a
Muslim mosque. In 1993, bombs rocked the city, killing 257 people, in an attack
that some say was tied to the rioting. An Indian court is expected to deliver
sentences Thursday on the first four people to be convicted in the bombing.

Riots also broke out in Malegaon in 2001 after anti-US protests got out of hand.

Now, these two cities in the state of Maharashtra are again linked, with
law-enforcement officials hinting that the same terrorists responsible for the
Mumbai bombing in July have simply changed their tactics: Now they are targeting
Muslims to see if they can provoke a response.

If true, the claim suggests that Muslim terrorists are now willing to attack
fellow Muslims in an attempt to destabilize India. With an estimated 145 million
Muslims, India is home to the world's third-largest Muslim population.

For his part, Abdul Rehman simply wants those responsible caught - whether Hindu
or Muslim.

His father, Maulana Abdul Bari, is the imam of the Hamidiya Mosque that was
attacked last weekend in Malegaon. Mr. Rehman watched as the throngs outside
seemed to be spiraling toward anarchy. "The situation was out of control," he
says. "The people wanted to know ... what the police was doing. This is why they
were angry."

Tense situation calmed

Indeed, immediately after the bombing, there were several reports of attacks
against policemen. Malegaon, it seemed, needed only the smallest spark to
ignite. Says Rehman: "If the police had done something [aggressive], then the
crowds would have been provoked."

That was when his father took to the mosque's loudspeaker.

"The Ulema [Muslim elders] said, 'The police are conducting their
investigation,' " Rehman recalls.

" 'Let the ... investigating team do their job, and after they do their work,
we'll certainly put pressure on them to give their report."

It was a decisive moment, and Malegaon's religious leaders - including Mufti
Mohammed Ismail, the president of the Ulema council of Malegaon - have won
praise for their part in keeping the peace so far, though the situation is still
tense.

"The religious leaders in Malegaon played a moderating role," says Maj. Gen.
Dipankar Banerjee (ret.), director of the Institute of Peace and Conflict
Studies in New Delhi.

Indians seeing through the tactic

Yet he also suggests that the Indian people have grown wise to the terrorists'
aims. "Because we see this again and again, people begin to see through it,"
says General Banerjee. "If we respond in a manner that the terrorists are trying
to encourage, then we are playing into their hands."

Like many others, Banerjee is wary of making too much of the recent calm. "One
cannot take it as a trend," he says. "One must be careful."

But perhaps it is an opportunity for all Indians to examine the thinking that
often divides them. "What this gives us is a moment toforge ahead on many
issues," says Setalvad. "It is a moment of deep introspection."

* Saurabh Joshi contributed to this report.

(c) Copyright 2006. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday

US, India dance awkwardly around the man who might be India's next leader;
If Narendra Modi wins India's elections next year it would inject discomfort
into the deepening relationship between India and the US.

BYLINE: Shivam Vij Correspondent, Ben Arnoldy Staff writer

SECTION: World

LENGTH: 1064 words


Narendra Modi, India's potential next prime minister, addressed expatriate
Indians in 18 US cities Sunday evening via video conference. He spoke of global
warming and malnutrition, gave a shout-out to the mayor of Chicago, and
applauded the Indian diaspora for their achievements. He even told them he was
building a statue twice the size of the Statue of Liberty to be called the
Statue of Unity.

But Mr. Modi did not mention why he was making this address by satellite and not
in person. The United States denied him a visa in 2005 for his alleged
complicity in bloody anti-Muslim violence in his home state of Gujarat in 2002.
Ever since, ambiguity has surrounded Modi's ability to travel to the US, one he
has not tested again with another application.

But in the intervening years his political star has risen in India, where he is
a leader of the Hindu nationalist Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). Modi has emerged
as the party's front-runner for the post of prime minister in India's next
general elections, slated for 2014. With the ruling coalition beset by a raucous
parade of corruption scandals, the main opposition BJP is poised to perform
well.

If Modi were to become prime minister, it would inject discomfort into relations
between India and the US - two democracies that have gone from distrusting each
other to talking of a shared destiny in the span of a decade. The relationship
is now too broad to be deeply damaged, and analysts say Washington will probably
wave away any visa barriers. But relations between the two country's leaders
will hew more to protocol than personal affection.

"It's going to be awkward for the US" if he wins, says Sumit Ganguly, a scholar
of US-India relations at Indiana University, Bloomington. "I am afraid for the
first time we are going to be dealing with a prime minister in India where we
feel genuinely uneasy, and the Indian diplomats will have a tough time in this
country."

Modi should expect no invitations to a US state dinner and no meetings on the
sidelines of the G-20 with the president, Dr. Ganguly says, and that makes
discussing new initiatives difficult.

"You don't need to snub him, but you don't need to embrace him either," says
Ganguly. "And I think that's exactly the line the State Department is going to
take. They will follow protocol, but they are not going to go out of their way
to lionize this guy."

For now, the State Department will only say that "the chief minister is welcome
to apply for a visa and await a review like any other applicant. That review
will be grounded in US law."

Denying him the visa in 2005, a US embassy spokesperson had said that he was
denied a diplomatic visa because he was not visiting for a diplomatic purpose
and, in addition, his existing tourist/business visa was being revoked under
Section 212 (a)(2)(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. Under the section,
any government official who was "responsible for or directly carried out, at any
time, particularly severe violations of religious freedom" is ineligible for a
visa.

The European Union ends boycott

The rioting in Gujarat in 2002 led to the killing of more than a 1,000 people,
mostly Muslims. Modi was then, as he is now, the chief minister of the state.
Human rights groups have accused officials in his government of involvement and
argued he did not do enough to stop the violence or prosecute the perpetrators.
The Gujarat High Court in 2012 upbraided Modi for "inaction and negligence"
during the riots. Meanwhile, earlier this year, an investigative team appointed
by the Indian Supreme Court cleared Modi and 61 others in the riots.

India's Ministry of External Affairs responded strongly in 2005 to the visa
denial, saying that the decision was "uncalled for and displays lack of courtesy
and sensitivity towards a constitutionally-elected chief minister of a state of
India."

US business interests in India and the growing political clout of the Indian
American community could reverse the US policy on Modi, says Lalit Mansingh, the
former Indian foreign secretary who was ambassador to the United States at the
time of the 2002 violence.

"The European Union has changed its stance recently and has ended its boycott of
Modi. I have spoken to a number of European ambassadors who say that Indian
courts have not found the allegation to be true and hence the removal of
restrictions," says Mr. Mansingh.

What about the US?

But pressure remains in the US against any change.

In its annual report released last month, the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) asked the US government to deny future
visas for Modi.

"We think that the evidence is sufficient and the concerns are sufficient ...
about his role - not directly, but nonetheless in a position of responsibility -
in the very serious violence that took place in Gujarat that it just would not
be appropriate" to issue Modi a visa, says USCIRF Chair Katrina Lantos Swett.

She acknowledges that the US will be factoring in important security,
commercial, and democratic considerations should Modi be elevated by Indian
voters. But religious freedom and human rights are values that also need to be
considered, she says. "Democratic processes can be used to elect people who are
perhaps unworthy at times of the office they hold," she says.

For some Gujaratis living in the US, however, Modi's reelection in 2007 shows he
has a mandate from the people and should be accorded some respect.

"He is an elected person of a state in India. There are 60 million Gujarati
people," says Navin Patel, president of Gujarati Samaj in Atlanta, one of the
groups that hosted Modi's speech Sunday. "The American government made a mistake
not giving him a visa."

A Modi aide tells the Monitor that his boss has not applied for a visa recently.
That may be because he does not really want to visit the US, argues Modi's
biographer Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay.

"The continuing ban helps him be seen as a martyr by his political base," says
Mr. Mukhopadhyay, who adds that Modi as prime minister would be unlikely to hold
a grudge against the United States as his political constituency is pro-US.

Professor Ganguly agrees that the affinities between the American and Indian
people would help limit the damage to the overall relationship. "The [bilateral]
relationship has become so multifaceted that a prime minister can only expedite
or slightly retard it."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday

India elections: Muslim voters warily eye frontrunner Narendra Modi;
Modi, who represents a Hindu nationalist party, is widely blamed by Muslims for
not averting a pogrom in Gujarat in 2002. The state's chief minister has since
tacked to the center.

BYLINE: Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar Correspondent

SECTION: World

LENGTH: 1027 words


Like many Muslims, Abdul Sheikh has strong views about the prospect of Narendra
Modi becoming India's next prime minister.

Mr. Sheikh's wife and seven children were killed in communal pogroms that shook
this city in the western Indian state of Gujarat in 2002, and left 1,000 dead,
mostly Muslims. Sheikh's surviving son, who lives with him in the shanties of
Faizal Park, a Muslim enclave, still bears scars from being set on fire by a
mob.

Mr. Modi was chief minister of the state during the riots, and was widely blamed
by Muslims for what happened. "If he couldn't save us in Gujarat, how will he
take care of India?" Sheikh asks.

Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party has been running a high-voltage election campaign
that promises economic growth and improved governance against a shambolic,
scandal-ridden incumbent coalition government. But for many Indians, especially
among minority groups, doubts over Modi's role in the 2002 riots as well as the
BJP's muscular Hindu nationalism remain a sticking point.

Muslims make up less than 14 percent of voters in India, but they have a much
larger presence in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two populous northern
states on which the election could turn. Despite efforts by the BJP to woo
minority voters, polls indicate that Muslim voters in these states are likely to
split their vote between other, secular parties. Almost half the state's seats
will be decided in voting Wednesday, the penultimate of 10 days of staggered
polling that ends May 12.

In recent weeks Modi's "development for all" platform has been overshadowed by
vitriol from members of his party and allied right-wing Hindu groups. One BJP
leader told a rally in Jharkhand that those opposing Modi should be sent to
Pakistan. The same week, Pravin Tagodia, the head of the right-wing Vishwa Hindu
Parishad that stoked anti-Muslim feelings in the Gujarat riots, reportedly
instructed a public meeting there on how to evict a Muslim newcomer from their
mostly Hindu neighborhood.

Modi has criticized these comments. But he has also resorted to divisive
rhetoric himself. At rallies in the border states of Assam and West Bengal,
where illegal migration from Bangladesh is a huge source of conflict, he
suggested that only Hindu refugees are welcome in India.

The BJP in turn has accused the ruling Congress Party and others of stoking
minority fears. An Aam Admi Party candidate told her Muslim constituents to vote
"communally" against the BJP.

"Each side is playing the communal card, while accusing the other of polarizing
voters," says D. L. Sheth, former director of the Centre for the Study of
Developing Societies in New Delhi.

For Sheikh, the widower in Ahmedabad, Mr. Tagodia's call to evict Muslims hurt
the most. He invokes Mahatma Gandhi, Gujarat's most famous son, who fasted to
keep the peace between Hindus and Muslims during the bloody partition of British
India in 1947 that birthed Pakistan.

"It was Gandhi who asked us [Muslims] to stay in India," and assured us of
safety, he says.

Polarized by riots

In a city with a long history of communal violence, the 2002 massacres have
polarized people further. In 2012, a Supreme Court-appointed committee cleared
Modi of complicity. But many of the victims who live in squalid conditions on
the city fringes still believe that Modi deliberately didn't do enough to stop
the riots.

"If Modi had ever visited us, said he's sorry and that he'll take care of us, it
would be different," says Mohammed Abdul, a furniture maker who lost his home
and business in the riots, and lives in a refugee camp in the shadow of a hill
of garbage. In 2002, Modi referred to these camps as "baby-making factories" for
Muslims.

But some Muslims have swung to Modi's side, including businessmen who have
reaped the benefits. Zafar Sareshwala, who owns a BMW showroom on an upscale
avenue of malls and office complexes, credits the chief minister with his prime
location.

These areas fall under Gujarat's Disturbed Areas Act, a law that restricts
Muslims and Hindus from selling property to each other in "sensitive" areas, and
which has increased Muslim ghettoization. Modi's intervention allowed Mr.
Sareshwala and other Muslims to open stores there.

Sareshwala used to be a critic of Modi. Now he argues that Muslims need to "stop
being victim-centric" and focus on rebuilding. He points to the conviction of
around 400 people, including a former state BJP minister, Maya Kodnani, for
instigating or participating in the violence. That's more than other riots
including those under Congress rule, he notes.

Modi has also sidelined militant Hindu groups like the VHP that allegedly
fomented the pogroms. "I'm not saying everything is perfect," he says. "Out of
100 tons of dirt, maybe 40 tons have been removed."

Hindutva goes mainstream

Modi spent his early career with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a paramilitary
group closely aligned with the BJP. At the core of their ideology is Hindutva, a
form of religious and cultural nationalism.

But some in Ahmedabad, including Sareshwala, believe that Modi is now more
interested in political power than Hindutva, while the BJP has tacked to the
political center so that it can form national coalition governments.

In the 1990s, the BJP led a campaign to build a temple in Ayodhya on the site of
a mosque, which resulted in the mosque's demolition by Hindus and triggered
riots across the country. When the BJP needed outside support to form a
government in 1998, it put the issue on the back-burner.

The temple demand is at the bottom of the BJP's current manifesto, and
emphasizes constitutional solutions. Modi continually talks of the constitution,
Mr Sheth notes, seeing this as part of his adaptation of Hindutva to a globally
linked, modern economy. "His Hindutva is now more about majoritarianism than
religious solidarity," he says.

Even if the BJP has softened, some of their supporters haven't. In a mall in
Nagpur, a city in central India, a young man working at a paintball studio said
riots like those in 2002 need to happen every now and then to keep India's
Muslims in their place. "They've come up in the world, and they're the most
corrupt," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 211 DOCUMENTS





                                Guardian Weekly

                                 August 5, 2005

Guardian Weekly: The Week: The roundup:  Asia

LENGTH: 135 words

HIGHLIGHT:


Uzbek refugees fly out

A total of 440 Uzbek refugees were flown out of Kyrgyzstan by the UN to
temporary shelter in Romania.

But Kyrgyz officials said they would hand 15  refugees back to Uzbekistan,
brushing aside UN fears for their safety. The  refugees fled Uzbekistan after
troops killed up to 500 people when they fired  on a crowd in the city of
Andizhan.

Politician accused of inciting riot

India's former deputy prime minister, Lal Krishna Advani, was charged with
rioting and inciting Hindu mobs to demolish a 16th-century mosque 13 years ago.
It sparked the worst religious rioting in decades, in which 3,000 people -
mostly Muslims - were killed.

Nepal rebel kidnapping

Maoist guerrillas, fighting to topple Nepal's Hindu monarchy, kidnapped  seven
civil servants, including a senior district official.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2005  Guardian Newspapers  Limited
                              All rights reserved


                              26 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

1984 anti-Sikh riot: India's court resumes Sajjan's trial

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 14 -- Resuming the trial of a 1984 anti-Sikh riot case relating
to killing of 6 persons in cantonment area by a mob allegedly at provocation of
India's Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, a Delhi court today summoned a former
police inspector to depose as defence witness.

As the trial, stalled for the last two months due to transfer of the judge
holding it at Karkardooma court, resumed, new District Judge-cum-Additional
Sessions Judge J R Aryan issued summons to former Inspector Maan Chand to appear
before it and scheduled the case for next hearing on Jan 3.

Judge Aryan summoned Maan Chand allowing Sajjan Kumar's plea for his examination
in his defence.

The trial in the case had been stalled since early October when the previous
judge trying the case, former North East Delhi's District-cum-Additional
Sessions Judge Sunita Gupta of Karkardooma Court complex was elevated as Delhi's
district judge and transferred to Tis Hazari court complex. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday

Indian man's burnt remains found on rural Australian road

BYLINE: Toni O'Loughlinguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 538 words

ABSTRACT

Find follows killing of Indian student in Melbourne, prompting Delhi to issue
warning over increase in violent attacks

FULL TEXT

The partially burnt remains of an Indian national have been discovered on a
rural road in Australia, escalating a row between Delhi and Canberra over the
treatment of Indian students in the country.

News of the death of Ranjodh Singh, 25, whose body was found south-west of
Sydney, follows Saturday's killing of Nitin Garg, which Indian leaders
condemned.

The deaths follow a spate of attacks last year on Indian students in Melbourne
and Sydney that culminated in street protests and riots.

India has issued an advisory warning to students about an increase in attacks in
Melbourne, urging them to take precautions such as avoiding travelling alone at
night.

Describing the knife attack on Garg in Melbourne as a "heinous crime on
humanity", India's foreign minister, SM Krishna, urged the Australian government
to act over the "uncivilised [and] brutal attack on innocent Indians''.

Garg, a 21-year-old student, was stabbed on his way to work at a restaurant in
the Melbourne suburb of West Footscray on Saturday night.

Singh was a farm labourer living in Wagga Wagga. His body was found near the
country town of Willbriggie.

In the advisory, India's government said: "The ministry of external affairs
cautions Indian students who are planning to study in Australia that there have
been several incidents of robbery and assault on Indians in Australia,
particularly in Melbourne, which has seen an increase in violence on its streets
in recent years, with the offenders suspected to be mainly young people in their
teens and early 20s."

The incidents were "often accompanied by verbal abuse, fuelled by alcohol and
drugs", the statement said.

The advisory said the growing attacks on students from India - who make up one
of Australia's biggest and fastest growing education markets - was also harming
the country's Indian community.

"If you are travelling alone, make sure that you have checked out your route
carefully and that you keep to well-lit, populated areas as far as possible,"
the advice continued.

"Make sure that someone knows where you are going and at what time you are
expected to return. Don't carry more cash with you than what is required. Do not
make it obvious that you are in possession of expensive items, such as iPods or
laptops. Always carry some identification with you as well as details of who
should be contacted in an emergency. If in danger, dial 000 to get police help."
Australia attempted to downplay the attacks, denying they were racially
motivated, as the Indian media and expat community claimed.

Australia's acting foreign minister, Simon Crean, said he hoped "wiser heads"
would prevail, insisting Australia, and in particular Melbourne, was a safe
place for foreign students as the city had one of the lowest homicide rates in
the world.

"[Melbourne] is not the only place that deaths happen," he said. "They happen in
India. They happen in Mumbai. They happen in Delhi. It's an unfortunate fact of
life, but so far as the victim is concerned, and his parents, our deepest
sympathy goes for them and we are doing everything we can to track down the
perpetrators.''

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday

Lives of Muslims in India

LENGTH: 1087  words


The wide- ranging essays in this volume focus on the intensified exclusionary
practices against Indian Muslims, highlighting how, amidst apolitics of
violence, confusing policy frameworks on caste and class lines, and
institutionalised riot systems, the community has also suffered from the lack of
leadership from within.

M. V Kamath

In those fragmented days, Muslims have been very much in the thoughts and
concerns of the non- Muslim population in the country because of elections to
five state legislative assemblies.

According to Markha Valenta, a European professor of history, and a contributor
to this volume, 'if we look closely at the lives of Muslims in India, it quickly
becomes clear that the identities and practices of those called 'Muslims'are
much too varied along the lines of region, caste, class and language and
politics to constitute a coherent social group'. But speaking about her defeat
in the elections held in Uttar Pradesh, the BSP leader Mayavati blamed the
Muslim community for deserting her party and this contributing to her loss of
power.

The presumption in many quarters still is that Muslims are a solid constituted
community who function in unison when their welfare is at stake.

How are Muslims treated in the country? Are they truly a united people as is
popularly believed? Are they really victimised by the majority community,
namely, the Hindus? In what way are they victimised? On what grounds do Hindu-
Muslim riots take place? What role do the police play on such occasions? These
are some of the questions that are dealt with in this analytical study to which
a dozen independent scholars have contributed.

Charges are made: the 'we'and 'they'syndrome is analysed and conclusions arrived
at, some of them of a questionable nature. In his Introduction, for example, the
editor, Abdul Shaban, makes the point that 'to produce the segregation and
exclusion of Muslims, history is manipulated and past discordance circulated to
re- live the past as present', especially the partition of the country in 1947.

The question may be asked: Are the Hindus to be blamed for partition? What was
it that Hindus did to motivate Mohammad Ali Jinnah to call for Deliverance Day,
which was to result in the wholesale slaughter of Hindus in Calcutta? Vague
charges are made that seek to put Hindus in the wrong.

Thus, the editor concedes that the growth rate of the Muslim population in the
country 'has been relatively higher than Hindus'but he says 'this higher growth
ratea emerges from poverty and economic deprivation of the community'. But the
Hindus, he charges, have interpreted this 'adversely'as 'a strategy by Muslims
to numerically overtake the Hindus'. Are we to presume that those Hindus who
also suffer from 'poverty and economic depression'have fewer children than their
Muslim counterparts? There is a reference to the demolition of the Babri Masjid
and 'more than 2,500 Muslims brutally murdered'. This comes in an article by
Irfan Engineer. Two questions may be asked: Were no Hindus killed in the riots?
And were they killed in a nice way and not brutally? Why did the riots, in the
first place, take place? Who burnt alive some fifty innocent Hindus women and
children in a railway compartment stationed in Godra? Then comes the larger
question of the demolition of the Babri Masjid. The Babri Masjid, as is too
well- known, was built where once a temple a" demolished by Muslim invaders a"
to Sri Ram stood.

Couldn't the Muslim population have the simple grace to concede to the Hindus
their emotional demand that was first raised as long as in the 1850s? It would
have redounded to the credit of Muslims and established Hindu- Muslim
brotherhood for generations to come. And Hindus, on their part, would have gone
out of their way to build a new masjid to the Muslims by way of compensation.

But the Muslim leadership, clearly with the backing of Hindu 'secularists'would
not bend to win. It was easier for that leadership to push Hindus to the wall
than to admit to past sins. Our Hindu secularists would do well to read an early
a" and remarkable a" chapter contributed by M. J. Akbar.

He asks: 'Did the Muslims of India consider themselves a minority under Mughal
rule? Did the Muslims of Hyderabad, never more than 10 to 11 percent of the
population, consider themselves a minority when their fellow Muslims, the
Nizams, were in power?'The Nizams even had the impertinence to impose Urdu as
the state language, when then language of the people was Telugu.

Akbar is firm in demolishing some of the arguments of his co- religionists that
have been overtly made in the past. Thus he says that 'it is a myth that Indian
Muslims did not live under Hindu rule'. Akbar reminds his fellow Muslims that in
the 1770s, the Maratha whi had conquered north India 'did not remove the titular
rights of the Mughals'. More importantly Akbar reminds his co- religionists that
'Muslims in India, unlike Muslims in most parts of the world live in an
uninterrupted and now uninterruptible democracy'and 'there are not many Muslim
communities in the world which can claim this privilege or good fortune'. But
this book has to be read to understand the Muslim psyche as much as the
apologetic attitude of our Hindu 'secularists'who are well represented among the
twelve contributors. This is not to run down any community or group. In the
chapter on Police Conduct During Communal Riots, the author, Jyoti Punwani damns
police behaviour as 'consciously partisan, pro- Hindu and anti- Muslim'. It
would seem that on the noon pf December 6, 1992, as am attack on Babri Masjid
was telecast alive by the BBc, the Mumbai police allowed VHP to conduct 'ghanta
naad'( ringing of bells) inside temples in Mumbai on grounds that the bell-
ringing was a religious ceremony and cannot be stopped.

Interestingly, Nistula Hebbar, in her contribution entitled 'BJPs Engagement
With The Muslims'notes 'the constant battle within itself over a right wing and
centrist agenda'but concedes that 'the Muslim community is indisputably given
space in the latter'. An eminently readable book its USP is the study in depth
of issues such as integration and exclusion of Muslims in the larger Indian
community and the frequent violence perpetration against them, but not, alas, in
an analytical bent of mind, Are Hindus always, and invariably, at fault? In the
end only one thing can be said for sure: There can be little progress towards
Hindu- Muslim oneness until both communities finally come to terms with their
common history.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 June 26, 2013

'Modi is like Atal minus his secular credentials'

BYLINE: FPJ Bureau

LENGTH: 220  words


Nagpur:  Former Lok Sabha Speaker P A Sangma on Tuesday drew comparisons between
Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and Atal Behari Vajpayee, saying that the
BJP strongman is a good administrator but lacks secular credentials unlike the
erstwhile Prime Minister.

"Modi has tremendous capacities and will power to transform he is a good
administrator but the only drawback is his non-secular credentials," he said.

"His qualities resemble (Atal Behari) Vajpayee. He has proved his abilities in
Gujarat but when it comes to leading the nation, if at all BJP-led NDA comes to
power in 2014, it

will be a great challenge for himhe will be more concerned about good
governance," Sangma told in an interview.

On 2002 Godhra riots haunting Modi, Sangma said, "When country can forget the
demolition of Babri Masjid, people will also forget the Godhra riots."

"India has enormous capacity to absorb crises," he said on the Babri issue.
Sangma also ruled out early elections. On the post-election scenario, he said
the prospects of the Federal Front mooted by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata
Banerjee were dim.

There are several like Mulayam Singh Yadav, Lalu Yadav and others to lead and
therefore it will be a mess, he felt. On BJP-JD(U)'s severed ties, Sangma said
the latter will be the sufferer in the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               September 6, 2013

Focus on 2014, not 2002, Parrikar told

LENGTH: 324  words


BJP censures Goa Chief Minister over his interview to an American daily

Panaji: Two months after Narendra Modi's puppy remark in an interview to an
international newswire sparked controversy, Goa Chief Minister Manohar
Parrikar's comments in an interview with The New York Times have triggered an
internal simmering within the BJP.



The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday censured Parrikar over his 2002 Godhra
riots comments in his interview published online on Wednesday, with senior
leader M Venkaiah Naidu asking the Goa CM to not talk about 2002, but instead
'focus on 2014', when the country heads for the Lok Sabha polls.

Parrikar in an interview to NYT's India blog, 'India Ink' had said that he would
have done a better job than Modi, in controlling the situation post-Godhra riots
in 2002.

"It should not have happened, the administration should have clamped down on any
violence, [If I were in his place] I would have ensured...but Modi was new to
the job as chief minister," Parrikar said in his interview.

Parrikar had further said that the communal riots which followed were a product
of administrative failure and that everything need not be blamed on Modi alone.

"What happened then was unfortunate, but that does not require his apology, it
requires his correction and he has done that. There were many reasons why people
lost control in 2002 after the dead bodies [of Hindu pilgrims from an earlier
attack] were shown on TV. It should not have happened, the administration should
have clamped down on any violence," Parrikar said.

Modi's interview to Reuters in July had also sparked a controversy after he used
the analogy of the sadness caused by a puppy coming under the wheels of a car,
to explain how the pain he felt following the devastating riots.

However, reacting to Parrikar's comments the Opposition here has claimed that
Goa chief minister was slowly becoming self-obsessed and was ignoring the
pursuit of good governance.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                December 4, 2013

Sarika's evergreen charm

BYLINE: LIPIKA VARMA

LENGTH: 665  words


The veteran actress shares about her journey and her concerns regarding her
daughter, Shruti Hassan

Sarika, the evergreen actress who made a comeback in Bollywood after her split
with her husband, Kamal Hassan is also a worried mother with the recent spate of
affairs regarding her daughter Shruti Hassan. The national award-winning actress
divulges her future plans and gets nostalgic about her past too.



On her ageless beauty, she shares, "Age should matter not to anyone. Everyone
does turn old but life needs to go on with a positive note. Your heart and soul
has to be clear and unaffected."

Talking about some films with small budget that did well at the box office she
says, "'Bheja Fry' (2006) happened to be successful because of the great script,
its narrative and the actors. I try to choose a film, which may work. Sometime
some films do not work and I have to sit at home for few months. On an average,
all my films have done well." Speaking on her choice of films, she says, "I
choose a film in this order -the role, script and the director have to be good.
It is never possible for me that if the captain of the ship is a worthless
bauble, I will do the role merely because I play the leading lady. Everything
has to be connectable."

Her performance in 'Parzania' in which she plays the role of a Zoroastrian woman
who loses her child during the 2002 riots of India, fetched her the National
Film Award for Best Actress and she recalls, "No one ever expected that. It was
just made on a mediocre budget of Rs 40 lakhs only. Also, as it was under the
fiery situation of controversial political take, then we never wanted to hurt
anybody's sentiments. All these controversies occur owing to lack of tolerance.
For instance a driver also may get rash in his driving and he may get into a
scuffle. But we as film makers need to increase our tolerance power and
concentrate on our profession to the best of our abilities."

Sarika feels she can never join politics and states her reasons saying,
"Definitely not. I hate people who involve themselves in petty politics on a
daily basis. I am good at my profession of films, then why on earth will I join
politics and ruin my peaceful life? I am not a politically motivated person at
all. Being creative I can surely create good performances on screen and get
involved in making good films."

Talking about change, she shares, "Change is part and parcel of everyone's life.
Change is inevitable. It happens in every sphere of life. There have been
changes in my life." Highlighting about the changes in the film world, she
shares, "Freedom of expression is unbelievable, it has happened in past five
years. The changes in the filmmaking have occurred in all the departments along
with the audience. Different genres have come to the fore. A film like,
'Lootera', it is a personalized experience, it is indeed praise worthy attempt
to be made from our country. Market has opened up so they can follow the phrase,
'Put your money where your mouth is'."

Sarika opines that Indian films can never allure the audiences without emotions
and adds, "All the Indian films have emotions. Our films cannot do without
emotions and music. It is the backbone of our films. It is in our DNA."

Lately Shruti Hassan was attacked by a stalker and ask Sarika about her reaction
and she vocally states, "Well! The environment lately has turned very insecure,
so I believe that every woman needs to support herself to evade any such
incidents even if it entails physical training. I am there to support Shruti in
every manner what so ever." And she continues, "With regards to Shruti's films,
I think now that her two films have done well at the box office, she has
definitely got the right opportunity. I am confident of Shruti going ahead and
doing more and more good film. My younger daughter was assistant director but
now she has ventured into films as an actor. Hope both of them make undying
impressions in the hearts of the audience, which is very important."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Star of Mysore (India)

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

IN BLACK & WHITE: TRIGGER-HAPPY

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: India


India, Aug. 13 -- The riots in England made big news all over the world. It was
a sight to been seen how even in a first world country, things can go the third
class way. It also showed how a small group of bad people, opportunistic people
coupled with greed, could wreck havoc on the rest of the community. But it also
brought forth the importance of an effective Police force in the modern
digitally hyper-connected and emotionally disconnected world.

Of course, initially they said that the British Police were too timid and did
nothing. In hind sight, though that attitude of calm may have led to financial
loss, had the Police used brutal force, communities would have been forever
wounded.

They say when god is in trouble he calls for an Englishman; this is to say that
the Englishman always has a solution for everything. But when there are riots,
agitations and looting, god and even Englishmen are better off calling the
Indian Policemen.

Yes, the Indian Police are specialists in riot control; it?s simple ? beat the
living daylights out of whoever or whatever comes in front of you. If that
doesn?t work, then simply whip out a pistol and shoot. Like they did on farmers
in Maharashtra on Tuesday and like they shot dead 12 students in Meghalaya a few
years ago.

The fact is that the Indian Police can be very effective when they want to be.
After all, how else do they manage to keep order in spite of having one of the
least Police-people ratio in the world ? just 126 cops per 1 lakh people. But
their methods are extreme.

The British cops seem too cultured to handle uncultured and co-ordinated thugs.
They carry only a baton and believe in community policing. Just like our cops
do. They do not use guns or any form of force that is considered brutal,
especially during the riots because they could end up harming the young men and
women involved. But occasionally, our cops ? Sub-Inspectors and above, and
certain trained Constables ? take aimless and irresponsible shots.

On the other extreme are the British who have become so docile that they have a
?Police service? and not a ?Police force.? It is not just a word intended to
change perception. The sight of a British Policeman is not intimidating, instead
you tend to respect them and appreciate their work like you do of a social
worker. They don?t put that thought in you ? ?I dare not break the law? ? with
their overly dignified demeanor.

In contrast, the American Policeman looks intimidating. He is well-equipped and
the sight of a gun by his side can do to a thug what a whip can do to a circus
monkey. When an American cop tells you to ?put your hands where I can see them,?
you do exactly that. Even their tone is authoritative and confident, the kind
one gets when they have a gun hanging off their waist with a license to shoot.
But in a nation that sells guns to the public, this attitude is necessary.

Now in India, guns are easily accessible neither to the public nor to the
Police, good. Because one may misuse it (even worse self-use it) or just don?t
know how to use it.

Recently, a Policeman in north India, after his duty, went to a bar with his gun
slung over his shoulder, got drunk and when people requested him to get out of
the way, he started pointing his gun at the public! The other example is what
happened at Maval taluk in Maharashtra where to disperse the protesting farmers,
the Police instead of lathi-charging or firing in the air or below the knee,
suddenly erupted with anger like in an action-packed Hindi movie and started
shooting randomly. Yes, farmers died. Yes, there will be suspensions. But owning
a gun and having the license to use it is a huge responsibility, and the
accountability and punishment must match that.

Of course in India, gun culture was stemmed after the 1857 rebellion where an
Indian was not allowed to own any weapon unless he was approved as a loyal
servant by his British master. May be if this was not done, just may be, we
would have got our independence faster? Yes, there would have been blood but may
be we would have gained some much-needed extra democratic time and a decreased
population to kick-start a young democracy.

Or who knows, may be we would have shot at each other and the Indian peninsula
would be full of linguistic nations which are sparsely populated, like a little
Europe? However, it is good we don?t have easy access to arms in our country.
For a people who are incapable of following basic traffic laws and filled with
road rage, there is no doubt possession of arms is a bad idea.

That said, the Indian Police manage riots and agitations quite well. The reason
for this is that most of the political agitations are just a show; in the sense
that most of the volunteers do not completely believe in what they are
protesting for or they are simply paid to be there. Such a crowd will throw a
few stones and after getting a few beatings, will run home.

If true believers in a cause hold the protest, riots could become a revolution.
And in a nation like India which is so large and so thickly ?infested? with
people, a riot in which every Indian is invested and believes in can turn into a
mini-revolution. And that is exactly why Anna Hazare will not be allowed to fast
at Jantar Mantar. Because if too many people come to support him, then the
Police know that these people will not be easily chased away like Baba Ramdev?s
devotees.

These people will be sincere and passionate about the cause. And when one finds
a sincere cause with a grand end, an unprecedented courage germinates within
oneself, the same kind of courage that got us freedom.

But we fear our modern Indian Police will not be as considerate as the British,
considering that of late they seem to have become trigger-happy.

Independence Day is almost here as we continue to live in a half-baked democracy
with a well-cooked culture of corruption and so it is very easy to beat back
protestors who, let alone an ideology, don?t even have an idea of what they are
protesting. But in case you do, then beware, the men in khaki and white are only
too ready to fight? may be even fire.

E-mail: vikram@starofmysore.com Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Star of Mysore. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Star Of Mysore
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

Third Test on schedule despite riots

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: India


India, Aug. 9 -- Officials have also confirmed that the planned practice
sessions of the England and Indian teams on Tuesday will also not be postponed
and go ahead as scheduled.

The Indian team, which reached Birmingham on Monday, is reportedly safe as told
by the team's manager Anirudh Chaudhary to CNN-IBN. "All players are safe," he
said.

Some Indian and English players also tweeted their responses about the riots.

Rioting and looting spread across London on Monday as hooded youths set
buildings and cars ablaze, smashed shop windows and hurled bottles and stones at
police in a third night of violence in Britain's worst unrest in decades.

The violence erupted late on Saturday in London's northern Tottenham district
when a peaceful protest over the police shooting of a suspect two days earlier
turned violent.

England were in a similar situation on their tour to India during the 26/11
attacks on Mumbai and promptly flew back mid-way through the series. They
returned after a couple of weeks to play the Test matches in Chennai and Mohali.

Riots spread, Team India safe

As the London riots spread to Birmingham, concerns have been raised about the
safety of Team India which is in Birmingham to play the third Test against
England beginning at Edgbaston on Wednesday.

The Indian team, which reached Birmingham on Monday, is reportedly safe as told
by the team's manager Anirudh Chaudhary to CNN-IBN. "All players are safe and
are inside their rooms."

The Indian team management has issued an advisory to all the players, asking
them not to step out and return to their hotel.

Some Indian and English players tweeted their responses about the riots.

Indian bstamsn Suresh Raina tweeted, "Good nite, every thing safe here miss you
mom can't wait to see u", while England batsman Kevin Pietersen wrote: "They
have just locked our hotel in Birmingham. Riots just started here. Insane!"

England bowlers Tim Bresnan and Graeme Swann also tweeted their concerns.

Bresnan tweeted: "Just seen the rioters in Birmingham fleeing down the main
street followed by a load of police in the full get up. What's going on?"

Meanwhile, Swann wished everyone to be safe and said, "Goodnight England. Good
luck to those surrounded by the carnage. Be safe."

Rioting and looting spread across London on Monday as hooded youths set
buildings and cars ablaze, smashed shop windows and hurled bottles and stones at
police in a third night of violence in Britain's worst unrest in decades.

The violence erupted late on Saturday in London's northern Tottenham district
when a peaceful protest over the police shooting of a suspect two days earlier
turned violent.

There are now reports that the violence has spread to even Liverpool and
Bristol. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)

                              June 17, 2016 Friday

Gujarat riots: India court jails 11 for life over Gulbarg massacre

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, June 17 -- A court in India has sentenced 11 people to life in
prison for their roles in a notorious massacre during the 2002 anti-Muslim riots
in Gujarat.

Of the 24 people convicted for the so-called Gulbarg Society killings, 12 were
jailed for seven years while one man was sentenced to 10 years.

During the attack, 69 people were hacked and burned to death by a mob.

More than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died in the riots, sparked by a fire on
a train that killed 60 Hindu pilgrims.

The special court in Ahmedabad called the incident the "darkest day in the
history of civil society".

Critics of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was the state chief minister at the
time, say he did little to stop the riots, according to BBC.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Two Different Verdicts

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: India


India, Aug. 30 -- Naroda-Patiya riots case and Kasab ruled the news channels
yesterday. From Social networks to online media, everywhere these topics
captured the space and attention of the people. BJP MLA Maya Kodnani and a
Bajrang Dal leader were among 32 people convicted by a special court on Tuesday
in the 2002 Naroda-Patiya riots case in which more than 90 people belonging to
the minority community were killed. The quantum of sentence is likely to be
announced later. The massacre had taken place a day after the Godhra train
burning incident of February 27, 2002.On February 28, 2002, when a bandh call
was given by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), a large crowd gathered in the
Naroda-Patiya area and attacked people belonging to minority community that
resulted in the death of more than 90 people while 33 others were injured in the
violence.

The trial began in August 2009 and charges were framed against 62 accused. One
of the accused, Vijay Shetty, died during the course of the trial. As many as
327 witnesses, comprising eye witnesses, victims, doctors, police personnel,
government officials, forensic experts and journalists including Ashish Khetan,
who conducted a TV sting operation on the accused, have been examined by the
court. Initially, 46 people were arrested by the Gujarat Police, whereas 24 more
people were apprehended after the probe was handed over to the Supreme
Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) in 2008. In all, 70 people were
arrested in the case. Six persons died before the charges could be framed and
trial started, while two others identified as Mohan Nepali and Tejas Pathak
jumped bail and are still absconding.

Kodnani was arrested by the SIT when she was a minister of state for women and
child development in Modi government in March 2009. She was an MLA at the time
of the incident. In India, the right wing politics is flawed. In spite of being
the descendants of the people who had sacrificed their lives during 1857, the
thinkers of RSS and BJP do not know about their own history. It is therefore
natural that people like Kodnani and Bajrangi will at times resort to certain
means which are intolerable. Unlike most cases of riots in the Modern Indian
History which are lingering in the Courts for decades, this definitely seems to
be a new wave in Hindutva Politics.

The terror attack by Kasab and his team was done on 26/11/2008 but the case is
still going on almost after four years. Now, it will go for the revival at
Supreme Court and then to the President of India for mercy petition and till
then Kasab will turn sweet sixty. Now, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Lalu Yadav and Sonia
Gandhi will come into picture to attract the minorities. This central government
will keep postponing his death and one day Kasab will die a natural death in
India which is for sure. Even if Supreme Court upholds death sentence of Kasab,
like in Afzal Guru's case, the President of India will not take any decision to
hang him.

On the other hand in the Naroda-Patiya riots verdict, it's interesting to note
that how things take a shape when an appeal is filed in a higher Court. This
landmark verdict is a shining example of the fairness of the Indian Judicial
system, it was a bit late but faith in the rule of law has been effectively
restored. No man in our country is above the law. Justice has been done and
fitting replies have been given to extremists within our community who preach
that Muslims will never get justice in India. Muslims did get justice, rule of
law was upheld, and guilty will be punished. Now, all Muslims should forget the
horrors of the riots and focus on nation building, hand in hand with all other
citizens of this great nation. However, Modi will certainly resign as CM, as the
minister was in the cabinet of Modi. Modi is a great man, and BJP is a great
party. Finally, there is some evidence to back the claim that India has rule of
law. Now, should we not expect some movement on 1984 Sikh riots cases or
Bhagalpur riots or countless other riots that occurred in this country? There
are many such communal riots where innocent Indians have lost their life, but
cases are hanging in court trials. Let it be BJP or Congress or their
supporters, it's high time and they should learn to handle these situations with
more sensitivity than politicising over it.

The Supreme Court upheld the death sentence of 26/11 Mumbai terror attack
convict Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, saying that waging war against the country
was the primary and foremost offence committed by the Pakistani terrorist.
Prasad dismissed the plea of 25-year-old Kasab challenging his conviction and
death sentence confirmed by the Bombay high court. The bench rejected his
contention that he was not given a free and fair trial in the case. The bench
also observed that the failure of government to provide him an advocate at the
pre-trial stage did not vitiate trial court proceedings against him. It also
held that the confessional statement given by Kasab, which he retracted during
trial, was very much voluntary except a very small portion. Kasab along with
nine other Pakistani terrorists had landed in south Mumbai on November 26, 2008
night after travelling from Karachi by sea and had gone on a shooting spree at
various city landmarks, in which 166 people were killed. While Kasab was
captured alive, the other terrorists in his group were killed by security forces
during the counter-terror operations. But nine dead bodies those languishing in
mortuaries, cost equal expenditures as on Kasab. Whose wisdom is unquestionable?
Will the country please execute the sentence on priority? President of India
should immediately dismiss Kasab's clemency, if he applies for it. The carnage
and the massacre committed by him is unpardonable and the punishment must be
enforced without further delay. The red tape and administrative delays at the
judiciary and the executive branch of the government is shaking the confidence
of a common man. Justice delayed is Justice denied.

The fact that the government delayed the inevitable, gives out a wrong message
to the common man by destroying their confidence in the system. The perpetuators
should be brought to justice and not an ounce of clemency should be shown to
them. Please hang him and show us that we are "civilised" enough to punish the
guilty. His crime is not against Indians but against humanity. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Narendra Modi will use 'Tezaab' if Muslims don't vote for him: Azam Khan

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: India


India, March 3 -- Launching a direct attack on Narendra Modi over his repeated
assertion that there have been no riots in Gujarat in the last ten years,
Samajwadi Party's Muslim face and Uttar Pradesh Minister Azam Khan on Monday
said that Muslims vote out of fear for him in his state.

"How can there be riots in Gujarat? How will they (Muslims) not vote for Modi -
otherwise, wouldn't they be burnt with Tezaab (acid). Where will they go then?
If they have to live in Gujarat they will have to vote (in favour of Modi)."

"He (Modi) will turn the whole country into Gujarat," Khan, the Minister of
Minorities and Urban Development, added.

It is not the first time that Khan has trained his guns on Modi over the 2002
Gujarat riots.

"An assassin of humanity cannot become Prime Minister of India," he had said,
while accusing Modi of pursuing divisive politics.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            February 13, 2015 Friday

Setalvad's misuse of funds brings bad name to civil society

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: India


India, Feb. 13 -- The Supreme Court stayed the arrest of civil rights' activist
Teesta Setalvad, her husband Javed Anand and three others in an alleged
misappropriation case till February 19. Earlier, the Gujarat High Court had
refused to grant anticipatory bail to them. The case pertains to a First
Information Report (FIR) registered by the Ahmedabad Crime Branch last January,
which alleged that Setalvad, Anand, former MP Ehsan Jafri's son Tanvir and two
office bearers of the society - Salimbhai Sandhi and Firoz Gulzar - had
embezzled funds to the tune of Rs. 1.5 crore meant for the construction of a
memorial for riot victims. The money which should have been used for the poor
and the needy, probing in the matter suggests that the fund was misused for
their personal comfort.

The facts of this case reflect the sorry state of affairs of the NGOs. Freedom
to the civil society to function with flexibility is positive, however too much
freedom can lead to misuse of the NGO's fund by the individual or group. This
type of scam gives bad name to civil society. It is therefore, very important to
have strict laws regulating accountability and monitoring of the NGOs to
maintain a trust level and ensure honest functioning of it. Nowadays, NGOs are
referred to only those organisations that pursue wider social aims with
political aspects, but they are not political organisations such as political
parties.

India has 3.3 million NGOs; it means, one NGO per 400 citizens. It is time to
create a Ministry for better monitoring of NGOs. Several people misuse NGO's
name to serve their personal and vested interests.

Twelve Gulbarg Society victims served notice to Setalvad and lodged a complaint
against her at Ahmedabad Commissionrate, where commissioner asked the Crime
Branch to inquire into the matter. The residents alleged that she had sought and
collected huge donations from national and international bodies under the
pretext of providing financial assistance for reconstruction of houses or
converting the Gulbarg Society into a museum. The complainants said she
collected a donation of Rs. 63 lakh for the Citizens for Justice and Peace
(CJP), of which she is secretary, and Rs. 88 lakh for Sabrang Trust; but nothing
was passed on to the members.

Sixty-nine Muslims, including Zakia Jafri's husband and former Congress MP Ahsan
Jafri, were killed at the Gulbarg Society in Ahmedabad. Ms. Setalvad had helped
Ms. Zakia to file a complaint against the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra
Modi and 61 others for their alleged involvement in the post-Godhra riots.
However, recently Ahmedabad court accepted the Special Investigation Team's
closure report and gave a clean chit to Modi and others. The Gulbarg Society
victims have accused Setalvad and her husband Javed Anand of collecting foreign
funds for riot victims but not using them.

Setalvad, who has been espousing the causes of the victims of the 2002 Gujarat
riots, has contended that the case was filed against them with political motives
and they had not misused any funds. On March 25, 2014, the session's court had
rejected their pre-arrest bail applications.

Setalvad is a civil rights activist and journalist. Her organisation, CJP, is a
co petitioner seeking criminal trial of Narendra Modi, the then Chief Minister
of Gujarat and the current Prime Minister of India and 62 other politicians and
government officials for complicity in the Gujarat violence of 2002 and whose
names did not figure in any of the FIRs /chargesheets that formed the subject
matter of the various Session Trials regarding the riots at that point of time.
Four of the accused since then were chargesheeted of whom Maya Kodnani and Babu
Bajrangi have already been convicted.

In November 2010, Setalvad was accused of pressuring Zaheera Sheikh, the key
witness in the Best Bakery case, to make certain statements, leading to the
unprecedented transfer of the case outside Gujarat. In August 2005, a Supreme
Court of India committee absolved her of the charges of inducement levelled
against her by Zaheera and awarded a one year jail sentence to Zaheera for
perjury. In 2013, Tehelka in an undercover investigation discovered that Zaheera
had been paid to alter her testimony. Tehelka recorded BJP member Madhu
Srivastava, described by Tehelka as a "close associate of Narendra Modi" and
Batthoo Srivastava describing how they had paid Rs. 1.8 million to Zaheera.

Gulbarg Society members also sought to ban her organisation "Citizens for
Justice and Peace" and prevent her and husband entering the society. The
Ahmedabad Crime Branch is conducting an inquiry into the matter.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 552 words


PERU

Two mountaineers' bodies discovered

Searchers on Saturday found the bodies of two U.S. mountaineers who apparently
plunged to their deaths off a ridge after ascending a glacier-capped 20,000-foot
(6,100-meter) Peruvian peak, the rescue coordinator said. "They did summit and
they got into trouble on the way down," said coordinator Ted Alexander. "What
led to the fall, I cannot tell you now." Gil Weiss, 29, and Ben Horne, 32, fell
an estimated 300 meters (nearly 1,000 feet) off a ridge after reaching the west
summit of Palcaraju in the Cordillera Blanca range in mid-July, he said. Both
Weiss, of Queens, N.Y., and Horne, of Annandale, Virginia, were experienced
climbers

HEALTH

Ebola virus kills 14 in Uganda, agency says

The deadly Ebola virus has killed 14 people in western Uganda this month,
Ugandan health officials said on Saturday, ending weeks of speculation about the
cause of a strange disease that had many people fleeing their homes. The
officials and a World Health Organization representative said Saturday that
there is "an outbreak of Ebola" in Uganda. Kibaale is a district in midwestern
Uganda, where people in recent weeks have been troubled by a mysterious illness
that seemed to have come from nowhere. Ugandan health officials had been stumped
as well, and spent weeks conducting laboratory tests that were at first
inconclusive.

SOUTH AFRICA

Conservationist dies in baboon sanctuary fire

Conservationist Rita Miljo, who cared for and reintroduced packs of baboons back
into the wilds of South Africa, died in a fire that destroyed much of the
headquarters of the sanctuary she built, a sanctuary official said Saturday. She
was 81. Miljo died Friday in the small apartment she kept above the clinic of
the Centre for Animal Rehabilitation & Education in the bush of Limpopo
province, said Karl Pierce, a director with the sanctuary. With her at her death
was Bobby, the first battered Chacma baboon she ever rescued and nursed back to
health in 1980 after spiriting her away from a national park without a permit.
Bobby also died in the fire, along with two other older baboons that stayed in
her apartment, Pierce said. The cause of the fire remains under investigation.

NIGERIA

1 oil worker drowns, 1 shot in southern delta

A military spokesman in Nigeria says a worker for the local subsidiary of
Italian oil company Eni SpA drowned while trying to escape an attack in the
nation's oil-rich southern delta. Lt. Col. Onyema Nwachuku said Saturday that
another worker suffered a gunshot wound to his leg during the attack Thursday in
the winding creeks of Bayelsa state in the Niger Delta. Nwachuku said "sea
robbers" attacked the Eni speedboat carrying workers away from an oil platform
in the region. Nwachuku said soldiers continued to hunt for the attackers.

INDIA

Indian prime minister visits survivors of riots

India's prime minister has promised help for hundreds of thousands of survivors
of brutal ethnic rioting in the country's remote northeast that left at least 53
people dead.

Manmohan Singh flew Saturday to one of the districts worst affected by the
clashes between ethnic Bodos and Muslim settlers in Assam state.

The killing of four Bodo men last week sparked the violence.

The fighting forced about 400,000 people to flee their homes and crowd into
poorly equipped relief camps.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              39 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                              July 15, 2013 Monday

State of Indian Muslims

BYLINE:  Javed Anand

LENGTH: 5371  words


Several years ago, the self-exiled leader of Pakistan s Muttahida Qaumi Movement
(MQM), Altaf Hussain startled many with his statement that the demand for, and
the creation of Pakistan, was the biggest blunder in the history of mankind .
This may or may not have been merely a temporary outburst or political posturing
on Hussain s past. But Indian Muslims often do ruminate over the ifs of history.

With much of the creamy layer among Muslims migrating to Pakistan, partition
effectively dealt a crippling double blow numerically and qualitatively to
millions of those who chose to stay put in India. The feeling is widespread that
had Muslims collectively said no to the country s vivisection, though still in a
minority, the community would have had far greater political weight and leverage
in a post-colonial, secular-democratic dispensation.

Such cud-chewing of course does not alter the reality of partition. The fact
remains that religious minorities across the sub-continent continue to be the
worst victims of the over six-decade-old division of the country along religious
lines. This is as true of Muslims in India as it is of Hindus, Christians and
even minority sects in Pakistan and Bangladesh. Be it the issue of security,
equity or identity, ethnic, racial, religious or linguistic minorities across
the globe remain vulnerable. The scope of this article however is limited to the
plight of Indian Muslims who, sadly, not only are faced with numerous problems
but in some ways are also part of the problem.

None can today deny that the estimated 150 million Muslims (nearly 13.4% of the
total population) have had a raw deal in post-Independence India. Faced with
persistent Muslim complaints of rampant discrimination, the then Prime Minister,
Indira Gandhi appointed a high-powered Gopal Singh Committee in the early 1980s
to investigate. Basing itself on a lot of official data, the Committee s report
submitted in 1982 concluded that the grievances were genuine and made concrete
suggestions for improving the economic status of Muslims. The report was never
placed before Parliament; its recommendations were not acted upon.

Nearly a quarter century later, in March 2005, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
appointed yet another high-powered committee headed by a former judge of the
Delhi High Court widely respected for his commitment to human rights, Justice
Rajinder Sachar. Significantly, five of the seven committee members were
Muslims, one a Christian. The Sachar Committee s mandate was to report on the
Social, Economic and Educational Status of Indian Muslims . The Committee s
report, submitted in November 2006, thoroughly exposed the myth of Muslim
appeasement by pseudo-secular parties as is maliciously propagated by right-wing
Hindu communal parties and organisations like the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP),
the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its numerous affiliates.

Basing itself on a wealth of information culled out of numerous official and
other sources, the report concluded that far from being appeased , the community
had was the victim of institutionalised discrimination . As a result of this
systemic denial of educational and employment opportunities, access to credit
and civic amenities, growing political under-representation at the national,
state and local levels, the community was progressively lagging behind other
socio-religious communities in the developmental process. Thanks to reservations
and affirmative action since independence even the historically oppressed and
disadvantaged Scheduled Castes (Dalits) and Scheduled Tribes have been on an
upward curve while Muslims have been sliding back.

The depth of denial and deprivation can be gauged from a few highlights from the
Committee s report reproduced below:

Education:

Muslims constitute around 13.4% of the total population. But, in the premier
colleges in the country, only one out of 25 under-graduate students (4%) and one
out of 50 post-graduate students (2%) was a Muslim .

Muslims are grossly under-represented in the elite Indian Institutes of
Management (IIMs) and the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Enrolment data
for the years 2004-5 and 2005-6 show Muslims were only 1.3% of the total number
of students in all the IIM courses. In case of the IITs, out of 27,161 students
enrolled in all the courses, only 894 (3.3%) were Muslims .

The report rejected the oft-repeated contention that Muslims have themselves to
blame for being disinterested in the pursuit of education and worldly progress:
Only 3% of Muslim children among the school going age go to Madrasas. (Reference
to those whose entire education is limited to that imparted by madrasas).

Employment:

The participation of Muslims in regular jobs in urban areas is quite limited
compared to even the traditionally disadvantaged Schedules Castes/Scheduled
Tribes (SCs/STs).

The participation of Muslims in the professional and managerial cadre is low .

Access to credit:

The notion that Muslims do not participate in banking because of its un-Islamic
interest-based system is a myth .

Muslims constitute about 12% of all account holders in Scheduled Commercial
Banks. This is close to their share in the total population (13.4%). But Muslims
share in loan accounts is much lower than their population share and their share
in loan amounts is even worse .

On an average, the amount outstanding (indicator of loans sanctioned) per
account for Muslims is about half of that for other minorities and only
one-third of Others .

Some banks have identified a number of Muslim concentration areas as negative
geographical zones where bank credits and other facilities are not easily
provided .

Access to infrastructure:

There are clear differentials in the existence, accessibility and utilisation of
Social (primary and secondary schools, dispensaries etc.) and Physical
Infrastructure (electricity, piped water, roads and bus services etc.)
facilities across different Socio-Religious Communities (SRCs) .

There is a clear and significant inverse association between the proportion of
the Muslim population and the availability of educational infrastructure in
small villages. (Secular activists and un-biased government officials often say
that in smaller places it is easy to decide from a distance as to who lives
where. If you see a school there, it must be a locality of the majority
community; if you see a police station, it must be a Muslim locality! )

Poverty and Consumption Levels:

Muslims face fairly high levels of poverty. On the whole, their condition is
only slightly better than that of the SCs/STs. The economic condition of Muslims
in urban areas has not improved as much as of other SRCs .

Government jobs and schemes:

The presence of Muslims was found to be only 3% in the Indian Administrative
Service (IAS), 1.8% in the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and 4% in the Indian
Police Service (IPS) .

Share of Muslims in employment in various departments is abysmally low at all
levels. In no state does the representation of Muslims in the government
departments match their population share .

The presence and participation of Muslims in the Judiciary has been a major
point of concern .

While 25.2% of West Bengal s population is Muslim, the state government has
provided only 2.1% of government jobs to Muslims. In this respect West Bengal is
the worst. Even in Gujarat which has only 9.1% Muslims, 5.4% of them have
government jobs. Share of Muslims in recent recruitments by State Public Service
Commissions (in West Bengal) is 2.1%. (Ironically, the CPM was the first party
to demand implementation of Sachar s Report).

While Muslims constitute 30.7% of the poor (Below Poverty Line, BPL) in Kerala,
their share under most government programmes ranges between 5% and 18%. (For
very many years now, the electorate has been voting the Left Front or the
Congress-led United Front government to power after every alternate election.

Political under-representation:

One of the reasons for the low efficacy of government programmes in reaching
Muslims is the lack of Muslim participation in political processes and
governance structures .

Over the last 60 years minorities have scarcely occupied adequate public spaces.
The participation of Muslims in nearly all political spaces is low. Given the
power of numbers in a democratic polity based on universal franchise, minorities
in India lack effective agency and political importance. There is a strong case
to put mechanisms in place that enable them to engage in democratic processes at
various levels of polity and governance .

Over-representation in jails:

If there is one place where Indian Muslims are highly over-represented, it is in
the prisons. For some reason, this fact has been kept out of the Sachar
Committee s report. According to figures compiled by Prison Statistics India
(PSI), 21% of all those imprisoned in the country are Muslims even though
demographically they are only 13.4% of the total population. The
over-representation of Muslims in India s jails is often compared to the
over-representation of African Americans in US prisons. While this is attributed
to racial bias in the US, communal bias is widely perceived as the problem in
India.

The Committee made numerous short-term and long-term recommendations to check
rampant discrimination and ensure equal opportunities. The report was tabled in
Parliament in 2007. As was only to be expected, the BJP and other rightwing
Hindu organizations attacked the report, terming it as yet another case of
Muslim appeasement . But endorsed by secular parties, the then Congress-led
United Progressive Alliance government (UPA-I) accepted the report in Toto with
a promise to act on them in right earnest. The UPA government was voted back to
power for a second term in 2009. Six years later, the Committee s major
recommendations continue to be ignored, all that is evident are token measures.
The sharpest criticism of the UPA government s tokenism comes from the members
of the Committee, including Justice Sachar himself.

Months before the Sachar Committee was appointed, in October 2004 Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh had also appointed a National Commission for Religious and
Linguistic Minorities headed by a former chief justice of the Supreme Court of
India, Justice Ranganath Misra. The Commission s original terms of reference, in
a way complimentary to the subsequent mandate to the Sachar Committee were:

To suggest the criteria for identification of socially and economically backward
sections among religious and linguistic minorities;

To recommend measures for welfare of socially and economically backward sections
among religious and linguistic minorities, including reservation in education
and government employment; and

To suggest necessary constitutional, legal and administrative modalities
required for the implementation of its recommendations.

Subsequently, the Commission was also asked to give its views on the
Presidential Order of 1950 restricting reservation benefits (reservation in
educational institutions, government jobs and electoral constituencies in the
central and state legislatures) only to those among the Scheduled Castes (SCs)
who were Hindus.

Unlike the case of the Sachar Committee, the UPA-I government developed cold
feet over the Commission s report submitted by it in May 2007. In response to
growing demands from several quarters, the UPA-II government finally gathered
enough courage to table it in Parliament in December 2009. The report was
pounced upon by the BJP for recommending religion-based reservation which is
unconstitutional ; its ideological affiliate, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP)
threatened a nationwide stir. Since then there has been little progress in the
matter though many Muslim organizations continue to demand implementation of the
Commission s recommendations while parties which rely on Muslim votes for
example, the Samajwadi Party continue to dangle the reservation carrot before
Muslims.

Admittedly, religion-based reservation is frowned upon even by many within
secular circles: how we can talk of religion-based reservations in a secular
state? About two years ago, a full bench of the Andhra Pradesh struck down a
government scheme of reservations for Muslims in the state. The Supreme Court of
India has held that reservation on the basis of social and educational
backwardness for what are known as Other Backward Classes (OBCs) is
constitutional. Muslim leaders argue that since the entire community is
backward, there should be reservations for Muslims on the basis of backwardness.
Those opposed to it argue this is nothing but an attempt to bring in
religion-based reservation through the backdoor.

A detailed discussion on this complex issue is beyond the scope of this article.
But three points need to be taken note of here. One, notwithstanding all the
reservations-on-reservations, a de facto religion-based reservation favouring a
section of the Hindu community is part of the Indian reality. As mentioned
above, the 1950 Presidential Order stipulated that only Hindus among the SCs
will be entitled to reservation benefits since there was no place for caste in
Islam, Christianity, Sikhism and Buddhism. Caste may not be acceptable to
certain religions, theologically speaking, but it is well-known that caste
distinctions are a pervasive reality across all religions. The Muslim community
for example is divided between what are known as the ashraf, the ajlaf and
arzals, corresponding to the upper castes, backward classes and the Scheduled
Castes among Hindus. Yet, while Sikhs and neo-Buddhists among SCs have been
included over the years, Muslims and Christians continue to be denied the same.
Several petitions challenging this blatant discrimination have been pending
before the Supreme Court for years.

Two, an overwhelming majority among Indian Muslims belong to the ajlaf and arzal
categories. In the last decade or so, organizations of backward Muslims have
sprung up in a number of states who are as staunchly opposed as anyone else to
the idea of reservations for Muslims across the board. It is their contention
that any policy of reservations for Muslims as a community, apart from facing
the constitutional hurdle, will work to the disadvantage of the lower castes
since the ashraf are the most articulate and better organized to corner all the
benefits. Third, caught between the malaise of institutionalized discrimination
on one hand and opposition to reservations on the other, the community as a
whole continues to be denied equal opportunity.

(To be continued........)

If equity is a major concern, that of security of life, limb and property is
even more serious a problem confronting Indian Muslims. The fact that the first
decade post-Independence was largely free of communal violence is widely
attributed to the fact that the RSS was on the defensive following the
assassination of Mahatma Gandhi by an RSS-man, Nathuram Godse. With recurring
communal violence, the following two decades (1960s-1970s) turned out to be a
period of riots after riots . Following major bouts of violence during this
period, governments from the states concerned appointed judicial commissions of
enquiry (headed by in service judges from the high courts or the Supreme Court)
to probe the role of various actors in the violence and make recommendations on
how to control the recurrence of communal killings in the future.

Two things run like a common thread through the various commission reports: one,
the role of the RSS and other militant Hindu organizations in the masterminding
and perpetrating violence, target the country s religious minorities; two,
blatant police bias against Muslims and other minorities. Here below are the
main highlights of several of these commissions from different parts of India:

Who are the guilty?

''Here was not only a failure of intelligence and culpable failure to suppress
the outbreak of violence but (also) deliberate attempts to suppress the truth
from the Commission, especially the active participation in the riots of some
RSS and Jana Sangh leaders.''

Report of the Justice Jagmohan Reddy Commission on the Ahmedabad (Gujarat) riots
of 1969

The organisation responsible for bringing communal tension in Bhiwandi to a
pitch is the Rashtriya Utsav Mandal. The majority of the leaders and workers of
the Rashtriya Utsav Mandal belonged to the Jan Sangh (the predecessor of the
BJP) or were pro Jan Sangh and the rest, apart from a few exceptions, belonged
to the Shiv Sena.

Report of the Justice D.P. Madon Commission on the Bhiwandi, Jalgaon and Mahad
(Maharashtra) of 1970

In Tellicherry the Hindus and Muslims were living as brothers for centuries. The
Mopla riots did not affect the cordial relationship that existed between the two
communities in Tellicherry. It was only after the RSS and the Jana Sangh set up
their units and began activities in Tellicherry that there came a change in the
situation. Their anti-Muslim propaganda, its reaction on the Muslims who rallied
round their communal organisation, the Muslim League which championed their
cause, and the communal tension that followed prepared the background for their
disturbances... This is what the rioters who attacked the house of Muhammad
asked him to do. If you want to save your life you should go round the house
three times repeating the words, Rama, Rama . Muhammad did that. But you cannot
expect the 70 million Muslims of India to do that as a condition for maintaining
communal harmony in the country. This attitude of the RSS can only help to
compel the Muslims to take shelter under their own communal organisation.

Report of the Justice Joseph Vithyathil Commission on the Tellicherry (Kerala)
riots, 1971

''The dispute on the route of the procession became sharp and agitated reactions
from a group of persons calling themselves the Sanyukt Bajrang Bali Akhara
Samiti who systematically distributed pamphlets to heighten communal feelings
and had organisational links with the RSS. A call for the defiance of the
authority and the administration when it refused permission for one of the
routes led to a violent mob protesting and raising anti Muslim slogans and
thereafter an incendiary leaflet doing the rounds of Jamshedpur that is nothing
short of an attempt to rouse the sentiments of Hindus to a high pitch and to
distort events and show some actions as attacks on Hindus that appear to be part
of a design. A survey had already established that all policemen, havaldars,
home guards etc. were at heart ready to give support to them (Hindu communalist
organisations).''

Report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Communal Disturbances at Jamshedpur
(Bihar), April 1979

''The RSS adopts a militant and aggressive attitude and sets itself up as the
champion of what it considers to be the rights of Hindus against minorities. It
has taken upon itself to teach the minorities their place and if they are not
willing to learn their place to teach them a lesson. The RSS methodology for
provoking communal violence is: a) rousing communal feelings in the majority
community by the propaganda that Christians are not loyal citizens of this
country; b) deepening the fear in the majority community by a clever propaganda
that the population of the minorities is increasing and that of the Hindus is
decreasing; c) infiltrating into the administration and inducing the members of
the civil and police services by adopting and developing communal attitudes; d)
training young people of the majority community in the use of weapons like
daggers, swords and spears; e) spreading rumours to widen the communal cleavage
and deepen communal feelings by giving a communal colour to any trivial
incident.''

Report of the Justice Venugopal Commission on the Kanyakumari (Tamilnadu) riots
of 1982 between Hindus and Christians

Even after it became apparent that the leaders of the Shiv Sena were active in
stoking the fire of the communal riots, the police dragged their feet on the
facile and exaggerated assumption that if such leaders (reference to the late
Sena supremo Bal Thackeray) were arrested the communal situation would further
flare up, or to put it in the words of then Chief Minister, Sudhakarrao Naik,
Bombay would burn ; not that Bombay did not even burn otherwise.

Report of the Justice B.N. Srikrishna Commission on the Mumbai (Maharashtra)
riots of 1992 1993

Anti minority bias in the Indian Police

This commission of inquiry has cited more than half a dozen instances where
Muslim religious places adjoining police lines or police stations were attacked
or damaged. The argument advanced by the police officers that because they were
busy quelling riots at various other places, these police stations were shorn of
adequate strength and hence these attacks on religious places could not be
prevented, did not impress the Commission. It has made this observation because
not a single case of damage to a Hindu place of worship near a police station
was reported to the Commission.

Report of the Justice Jagmohan Reddy Commission

on the Ahmedabad (Gujarat) riots of 1969

The working of the Special Investigation Squad is a study in communal
discrimination. The officers of the squad systematically set about implicating
as many Muslims and exculpating as many Hindus as possible irrespective of
whether they were innocent or guilty. Cases of many Hindus belonging to the Shiv
Sena, Rashtriya Utsav Mandal (an extension of the local branch of the Jana
Sangh) were wrongly classified as A category and investigations closed and no
proper investigation was undertaken into several complaints of murders of
Muslims and arson of their property. No investigation was conducted into the
composition and activities of Hindu communal and allegedly communal
organisations operating in Bhiwandi but only in respect of Muslim communal and
allegedly communal organisations. Deputy superintendent of police S.P. Saraf
held private conferences and discussions with several leaders of Hindu
organisations including many who were implicated by Muslims in offences of arson
and murder.

Report of the Justice D.P. Madon Commission on the Bhiwandi, Jalgaon and Mahad
(Maharashtra) of 1970.

The evidence of the deputy SP says that while on patrol duty he had to curb many
among his rank and file who could not restrain themselves when they met Muslims
on the road. Similar evidence was given by the sub collector and other witnesses
who have testified saying that while chasing away some Muslims many policemen
yelled at them to go to Pakistan. At Mattambaram one or two of them got into the
mosque and besides beating Usmankutty Haji, a very respectable person, broke the
tube light and chandeliers in the mosque. There is nothing to show that there
was any justification for this action... So far as the minorities are concerned,
it is the feeling among them that they are not getting justice, that they are
discriminated against in the matter of appointments in the Public Services, that
they do not get equal protection of the law and that their religion is in
danger, that prompts them to rally around religious organisations of their own.
It is of the greatest importance that appropriate steps are taken by the
government to remove the cause for such feelings in the minorities. There is
much truth in saying that if you want peace you must work justice.

Report of the Justice Joseph Vithyathil Commission on the

Tellicherry (Kerala) riots, 1971

The riots occurred broadly on account of the total passivity, callousness and
indifference of the police in the matter of controlling the situation and
protecting the people of the Sikh community... Several instances have come to be
narrated where police personnel were found marching behind or mingled in the
crowd. Since they did not make any attempt to stop the mob from indulging in
criminal acts an inference has been drawn that they were part of the mob and had
the common intention and purpose... The Commission was shocked to find that
there were incidents where the police wanted clear and definite allegations
against the anti-social elements in different localities to be dropped out while
recording FIRs.

Report of the J. Ranganath Misra Commission on the 1984 anti Sikh riots in Delhi

These and many such other judicial commission reports and their numerous
recommendations on the prosecution and punishment of those it found guilty, the
urgent measures needed to contain hate propaganda and pre-empt future violence
have remained locked in government cupboards, never brought into public
discourse and debate, the recommendations never acted upon. In this prevalent
culture of impunity, communal violence made the next big leap. All too often in
the past three decades the state has played the roles of silent accomplice,
prime instigator, even chief sponsor of mass crimes. Nellie, Assam 1983 (target
Muslims); Delhi 1984 (target Sikhs); Bhagalpur 1989 (target Muslims); Mumbai
1992- 93 (target Muslims); Gujarat 2002 (target Muslims); Kandhamal, Orissa 2008
(Christians) remain the most gruesome reminders of this ugly reality.

Were we to go by the definition adopted by the UN s 1948 Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide , the Indian state has earned
the dubious distinction of standing watch over the genocidal targeting its
religious minorities Muslims, Sikhs, Christians 6 times in 25 years: a record
many dictatorships would find tough to match. In all these carnages and numerous
others, the masterminds of the mass crimes have gone unpunished while police
officers responsible for shocking dereliction of duty rewarded have been
showered with promotions after promotions.

In the past 20 years or so, not only secular activists but also nationally
respected establishment figures retired top-level police officers and civil
servants have repeatedly sounded the alarm that, one, no communal riot can last
beyond 24 hours unless the state wants it to continue and, two, by its failure
to protect the life and property of a section of citizens, the state sows the
seeds of extremism .

In an article in The Hindustan Times written in the midst of the 2002 genocidal
carnage in Gujarat, Prem Shankar Jha, a veteran journalist and columnist
lamented: For every one person who has been killed there are ten whose property
has been destroyed, breadwinner taken and the family rendered destitute. Not the
Centre, not the state, not a single political party, not a single industry
association has even thought of setting up a relief fund to which concerned
citizens can contribute to facilitate their rehabilitation. With such
callousness at home, we will soon not need Pakistan or Kashmir to breed our
terrorists for us . In another article written around the same time, he warned:
Would it be surprising if some of them (Muslims) are asking themselves whether
Hindus will ever let them prosper in India and whether it would not be better to
go out in a blaze of terrorist revenge?

In a different context, Antonio Cassese, the first Court President of the
11-member bench of judges appointed in the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal to
try Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and others for genocide, crimes against
humanity and war crimes had observed: The only civilized alternative to this
desire for revenge is to render justice. Sadly, the only civilized alternative
justice has been sorely lacking in India until recently.

(Thanks to the Herculean efforts of a group of secular activists who have stood
by the victims-survivors from Gujarat, the revelations of a handful of upright
police officers alive to their constitutional calling and a vigilant Supreme
Court, for the first time in the history of communal carnages in the country
nearly 150 perpetrators are serving life sentences for their role in the 2002
carnage in the state).

In the absence of justice over decades, unchecked mob terror has given birth to
bomb terror in the past 15-20 years. Who are the terrorists, where do they come
from? Until 2008 Indian security agencies, the mass media and rightwing Hindu
organizations effectively colluded with each other in propagating the catchwords
not every Muslim is a terrorist but every terrorist is a Muslim . The myth was
blown to shreds in 2008 when investigations led by the late IPS officer, Hemant
Karkare, the Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra police, revealed that
those involved in the September 2008 bomb blasts in Malegaon were extremist
Hindus, including a colonel from the Indian army and a sadhvi (female Hindu
priest).

Two years earlier, in August 2006, the same Maharashtra ATS under its then chief
KP Raghuvanshi had filed a charge-sheet in the April 2006 accidental bomb blasts
inside the home of an RSS worker in Nanded, unraveling an entire web of terror
implicating members of the RSS and its affiliate organizations VHP and Bajrang
Dal in a series of bomb blasts in different parts of the state since 2003. Among
other things, the charge-sheet highlighted the fact that a deliberate attempt
was made in each of these incidents to make it appear that Muslims themselves
were involved in the targeting of Muslim places of worship. In August 2008, the
monthly journal, Communalism Combat (co-edited by this writer) accessed the
charge-sheet and sought to bring it to public notice through a press conference
in New Delhi. It was well attended but both the print and the electronic media
chose not to report the explosive findings of the ATS. Because those implicated
were extremist Hindus?

In recent years, scores of young Muslims across the country have been illegally
detained, interrogated and tortured for extorting confessions about their
alleged role in the bomb blasts in different places, including those in Malegaon
(2006; prior to the 2008 blasts in the same city), Mecca Masjid, Hyderabad,
Ajmer Sharif dargah and Samjhauta Express (all in 2007). Subsequent events have
unearthed the involvement of Hindus associated with rabid, rightwing
organizations. Forget adequate compensation or rehabilitation to restore the
dignity of traumatized and stigmatized young Muslims and their families, no
decent apology has been forthcoming till date.

In September 2012, the Jamia Teachers Solidarity Association (JTSA) shocked the
nation with an explosive report, Framed, Damned, Acquitted . It documented 16
cases in which those arrested, in main by the Special Cell of Delhi Police, were
accused of being operatives and agents of various terrorist organizations (Al
Badr, HUJI, Lashkar), and charged with the most heinous of crimes: sedition; war
against the state; criminal conspiracy, planning and causing bomb blasts;
training of terrorists; collection of arms, ammunition and explosives and the
transfer of funds for terrorist activities. The penalties demanded by the police
and prosecution in these cases were also, correspondingly, the most severe: in
most cases, life sentence or the death penalty. However between 1992 and 2012 a
large number of those arrested were acquitted of all charges by the courts...
What judgment after judgment comments on is the manner in which the so-called
evidence provided by the police and the prosecution was tampered with and
fabricated, how story after story as presented by the prosecution was
unreliable, incredulous, and appeared as concocted. The fabrication of evidence
is a serious offence under the Indian Penal Code .

The expose led to questions being raised in the Indian Parliament, prompting a
delegation of CPM leaders who met the President of India in November 2012 to
protest the communal targeting and false implication of scores of Muslim youths
in terrorism-related cases. It submitted a memorandum to the President urging
him to ensure compensation and rehabilitation of jailed innocents. The
delegation also demanded the setting up of special courts with time-bound
procedures to settle cases within a year.

In May this year, an outstanding young journalist, Ashish Khetan wrote a long
letter petition to the Bombay High Court. The letter provided a clear and
compelling picture of the deliberate framing of Muslims most of them very young
and very poor in terror cases by the Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Maharashtra.
The consequences should shock

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday

Islamists behind attack on Modi's rally: India

LENGTH: 572  words


An Islamist militant group is believed to be behind an attack on a rally by
Indian Hindu nationalist politician Narendra Modi that killed six people and
wounded more than 80, Indian police said on Tuesday.

Modi, who has a good chance of becoming India's next prime minister, is seen as
a target of militants who hold him responsible for riots a decade ago during his
first term as chief minister of Gujarat state. At least 1,000 people, most of
them Muslims, were killed in the rioting.

Seven crude bombs went off on Sunday in Bihar state as Modi's supporters
gathered for his rally. He was not near any of the blasts and delivered his
speech despite the attack.

Senior police official S.N. Pradhan said one of two suspects arrested after the
blasts had identified a suspected senior member of the Indian Mujahideen
militant group, Tehseen Akhtar, as the organizer of the attack.

The National Investigation Agency, India's top counter terrorism body, is
seeking the arrest of the 24-year-old Akhtar in connection with attacks in
recent years in the cities of Mumbai and Varanasi and is investigating his role
in blasts in Hyderabad city in February.

"Because of the Tehseen connection, the entire chain is established," said
Pradhan, a senior police official in Jharkhand state, where the detained suspect
is from. "There is no doubt that it is the work of the Indian Mujahideen."

Police said the bombers were trying to spark a stampede in the crowd. Heavy loss
of life could have inflamed tension, recently simmering again, between majority
Hindus and minority Muslims.

The Indian Mujahideen has been accused of dozens of similar bomb attacks over
recent years. The ease with which the bombs were planted around the rally
ground, where tens of thousands of people gathered to hear Modi, has raised
concern about Modi's safety.

Leaders of his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have called the attack a big
security failure and have demanded better protection for him. There has been no
claim of responsibility.

Opinion polls suggest the BJP, which is seeking to unseat a ruling coalition led
by the Congress party, could win the most seats in a general election due by
May. Critics say Modi did not do enough to stop rampaging Hindu mobs in the 2002
riots in Gujarat. Modi denies any role in the violence and a Supreme Court
appointed panel cleared him of wrongdoing.

Modi rejects any suggestion of bias against Muslims although his party rose to
prominence after leading a campaign that led to the destruction of the Babri
Masjid mosque in 1992, which triggered rioting that killed some 2,000 people.
The party said the mosque was built on a Hindu holy site. The Indian Mujahideen
claimed responsibility for a series of bomb attacks in Gujarat in 2011 that
killed at least 45 people, saying they were revenge for the 2002 riots.

India arrested the organization's suspected leader, Yasin Bhaktal, near the
border with Nepal in August but Sunday's explosions would appear to indicate the
group can still launch high-profile attacks. Police also suspect the Indian
Mujahideen's involvement in a series of blasts in July at the Buddhist holy site
of Bodh Gaya, which is also in Bihar state.

A National Intelligence Agency official told media an analysis of the bombs used
in the Sunday attack showed they were similar to devices used in Bodh Gaya. In
both attacks, ammonium nitrate was detected, and the timers and circuits were
similar, the official said.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  The DayAfter

                               September 1, 2016

National: It's Poll Time, Forget Kashmir-Pak

LENGTH: 972  words


Steps towards harmony in the Kashmir valley or on the India-Pakistan track will
unsettle the political thermostat programmed towards these electoral ends, says
Saeed Naqvi

Once again Kashmir is ablaze and Indian diplomatic relationship with Pakistan is
at its nadir. Consequently, the communal cauldron is on a slow simmer. The gas
can always be turned on for it to bubble over. All of this is not without
purpose.

Elections to the Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Goa assemblies are due in February
2017, six months from now. The Narendra Modi government will have completed half
its term.

If hard saffron is to be the chosen line in these elections, softness with
Pakistan hardly serves a purpose. "Development" as a platform will be required
in 2019 General Elections. What shade of saffron is to be mixed with
development, will be improvised in the light of experience after the February
state elections.

The Atal Behari Vajpayee-led government faced similar choices in July 2001.
Uttar Pradesh elections then, as now, were due in February, six months away.

Today, of course, the Modi-Amit Shah duet will settle on a hard line for the
coming state elections. But in July 2001, there were two views in the BJP on the
platform for the UP elections. Vajpayee and then External Affairs Minister
Jaswant Singh were on the same page - a softer line, approximating to the middle
ground which would open the door to a wider electorate. This was one of the
reasons they were so enthusiastic about the Agra Summit with President Pervez
Musharraf in July 2001.

This was anathema to leaders like LK Advani. Helped decisively by senior
Ministry of External Affairs officials, the summit was wrecked.

A hard line for the UP elections became a fait accompli.

Luck favoured the hardliners. Within six weeks of Agra, 9/11 happened. By
October 7, 2001, President George Bush had embarked on the world's most riveting
fireworks on live TV - air strikes on Afghanistan. The global war on terror
metastasized into global war on Muslim terror. Anti-Muslim rhetoric soared.
Journalist Geraldo Rivera whipped out a revolver live on Fox News. He would
shoot Osama bin Laden if he ever saw him. New standards in journalism were being
set.

An irony confronted New Delhi. Since 1989, successive Indian Prime Ministers had
complained of "cross border terrorism from Pakistan". Suddenly Islamabad was
Washington's key partner in the war on global terror. Bush's Ambassador in New
Delhi, Robert Blackwill, explained the incongruity in simple words: "Pakistan is
helping the US fight the global war on terror; the cross-border terrorism New
Delhi complains of is part of an old regional quarrel."

Only after the December 13, 2001, attack on Indian Parliament and the
unprecedented mobilization of the armies on both sides of the border, did the
Indian plaint register with the international community. Nevertheless, it
remained a piquant situation. America's frontline partner in the War on Terror
was also New Delhi's principal tormentor with its relentless cross-border
terrorism. Not for the first time, the US was sailing on two boats at the same
time.

BJP hardliners, in search for electoral gain, ended up with something of a mixed
bag. Shrill anti-Pak rhetoric and anti-Muslim atmospherics worldwide because of
the global war on terror did not work in UP. Election results came out on
February 24-25, 2002. Rajnath Singh, as Chief Minister, had brought down the
BJP's tally from 174 to 88 seats in a House of 403. But Modi's hard saffron
campaign in Gujarat in July 2001, boosted by the post-Godhra pogrom, succeeded.
He won 127 seats in a House of 182. Clearly, compared to UP, Gujarat is more
communalism prone. Witness the 1969 Gujarat riots in which, according to a
commission of inquiry, 527 Muslims perished. Hitendra Desai of the Congress was
the Chief Minister.

Also, the Modi campaign had the tailwind rising from the Gujarat pogrom of
February 2002. Rajnath Singh's UP campaign predated the riots. Amit Shah must
have pondered this deeply when he crafted the 2014 Parliament elections
particularly in UP. Deep saffron in the air does not by itself suffice for
electoral delivery. Riots too are sometimes required.

So, Amit Shah raised the communal pitch in UP to the levels of post Godhra
Gujarat. The Muzaffarnagar riots of August-September 2013 served this purpose.
Amit Shah came up trumps. BJP won 73 of the 80 seats in UP.

It is only reasonable to assume that the party will maintain communal
temperatures from tepid to torrid until the elections in February. Steps towards
harmony in the Kashmir valley or on the India-Pakistan track will unsettle the
political thermostat programmed towards these electoral ends.

If this is the unstated script, the BJP-PDP three-legged race will continue. In
the meantime Ram Madhav, BJP's agile point man for Kashmir, will keep whispering
soothing mantras in the PDP's ears. The BJP-PDP alliance will ride the tiger
until it devours them.

Whenever the valley flares up, a grand delusion afflicts pundits in New Delhi,
that Kashmir can be sorted out by talking to "all sides" in the state. There is
an aversion to look at the complex triangular reality. In 1947-48 we trapped
ourselves in a triangle. New Delhi-Srinagar, India-Pakistan, Hindu-Muslim are
one complex of issues. You cannot touch one line of this triangle without
affecting the other two. This formula is cast in stone.

Vajpayee had the stature nationally, and in the Sangh Parivar, to take a
holistic view of this triangle. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh picked up the
thread until he ran into Pakistani recalcitrance. He and some of his Pakistani
interlocutors knew that agreement is possible without any territorial bargain
provided the triangle is kept in focus.

(Author is a senior commentator on political and diplomatic affairs. The views
expressed are personal)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


              Copyright 2016 dayafter, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1398 words


Council shame over green belt

I WAS interested to read Diane Deakin's letter (January 10) about Tameside
council's decision to grant Greenview Homes (odd title that, since they are the
ones getting rid of the green) permission to build nine houses on a green area
enclosed by Slateacre Road, Arnold Avenue and Highcroft, Gee Cross.

This does not affect me personally, but like Diane, I am completely outraged
about it.

I have looked at the two semi-detached houses on Slateacre Road that will have
to be knocked down to make an access road to the proposed new nine houses.

Two perfectly well built houses to go where's the sense in that? All that
upheaval for the residents, not to mention the wildlife.

The council should be ashamed of this decision. It's morally wrong when there
are plenty of empty sites available in the same area.

I would imagine a large number of Tameside residents will be rankled by this
decision. We need to preserve our green belt.

Diane is perfectly right this will set a precedent for developers to think they
can get away with it.

We need to preserve our green belt for future generations, once it's gone, it's
gone forever. We must not let this

happen.

PATRICIA MULLINEAUX

Brabyns Road

Gee Cross

Park needs

new toilets

AS a dog walker in Victoria Park, Denton, I would like to advise Tameside
council that since the closure of the public toilets, children and adults are
having to urinate or more in the bushes. It is a most unpleasant sight and
odour.

Children play for hours. But, quite naturally, need to relieve themselves.

Hyde Park has its own toilets, why not Victoria Park? Surely as a public
facility it should have toilet facilities. What are we saying to our future
generation it is OK to urinate in public.

I know that Tameside council will tell us that it does not have the funds.

But please look at the maintenance of the two bowling greens, which are only
used a few weeks of the year.

At least get rid of one, so that we can provide basic facilities and not ask
local people to break the law.

PAMELA STONE

Denton

MPs of vision and integrity

ONE of the greatest threats to our democracy is that the majority of politicians
are not trusted by the people at large.

People are growing indifferent to voting because the general consensus is that
they say one thing, but when they are in power, do the opposite.

We know they are highly trained on how to answer questions, or how not to answer
salient questions.

Image is very important to politicians but the public have been circumvented so
many times that they can now see right through this facade.

We hanker after integrity and altruism and politicians who have genuine empathy
with people of all classes.

It is easy to forecast a further stalemate in the next general election as so
many people are undecided on which party is the worse of the main two.

Our country needs politicians of vision, integrity and inspirational qualities.
I suspect the next general election will reflect that our people feel these
traits are sadly lacking in our politicians.

This does represent the biggest danger to democracy today.

HARRY SINGLETON

Salisbury Crescent, Ashton

Labour left a

huge deficit

I WOULD like to respond to the letter from D Glynn (January 3) in which he tries
to argue that Labour inherited a poor economic situation and then turned it
round.

Even the leaders of the Labour Party have not tried this excuse. The simple
undeniable fact is that they ran up the largest budget deficit this country has
experienced since the end of the Second World War.

If they were competent then, like other countries, they would have built up a
surplus and would have been able to manage the recession.

Having run up such a deficit they have no policies on how to reduce it, only to
go on spending more money with no regard as to where it will come from other
than to increase your taxes.

DAVE WESTHEAD

Chairman , Ashton Under Lyne Conservative Association

Why it's sensible to be an agnostic

IN response to Mr Borrell's letter (Advertiser, January 3) I wish to write that
I respect his scientific spirituality in which I see no contradiction as opposed
to a passionate Christian conviction, but feel that a most sensible and
sensitive perspective on life's great mysteries may be that of the agnostic.

It is impossible to prove the existence or the non-existence of God. It is
impossible, thus far, to absolutely prove any first cause' of how the cosmos
came into being.

Yet one may have the faith and convictions of a sincere Christian believer in a
modest, indeed humble and unfanatical way.

Our lives are maybe a matter and spirit of hope, tolerance, quest and despite
the advances of science, a continuing cloud of unknowing'.

DAVID ROBISHAW

Boyds Walk, Dukinfield

Signs of poor spelling

I AM amazed at the professional shop signs in Denton that have been

incorrectly spelt.

In the Crown Point/Hyde Road area we have signs on four shops with the words
Accessoires (should be accessories); StationARY (advertising writing media so
this should be stationERY); pay your counSIL tax here; And finally buy your
FRESHLEY made sandwiches'. We also had a shop advertising under new
managerment'.

What on earth has happened to basic spelling? If they were hand written that
would be bad enough, but these have been professionally made and paid for, so
there is no excuse. Spell checkers are available now on computers (or even an
old fashioned dictionary would suffice).

I despair.

DEBBIE RIDLEY

Denton

Thank you

Tameside hospital

HAVING recently had to undergo an operation in Tameside hospital, I would like
to thank my local GP, surgeons and all the nursing staff for the wonderful care
and attention I received whilst in the surgical ward.

They helped make an anxious time for myself and family easier and I cannot thank
them enough. We are all quick to criticise, we should be just as quick to
praise.

Mr R HOWARTH

Knowl Street, Stalybridge

Thanks for

helping after I fell

ON Tuesday January 8, I had a fall in Ashton indoor market.

I would just like to say a huge thank you to the very kind young man on the pet
stall, to the lady who stayed with me until the first aider arrived and also to
the first aider.

I am pleased to say that I suffered no serious injuries.

JOAN MITCHELL

Cedar Grove, Denton

Clogs? Good for mill but not for me

HOW I enjoyed your heritage page (Advertiser January 3) about clogs.

Nobody saw more clogs than me, or heard them, living among the dark satanic
mills of Tame Valley at Dukinfield. Day in, day out, the folks walked to their
various mills wearing clogs. My dad bought a pair of children's clogs for me and
my sister and so they would last us until we grew out of them, he reinforced the
clogs with metal around the toe cap.

My sister wore her clogs every day to school but I only went once in mine.

They played havoc with my feet; they rubbed my ankle bone, my heel and my toes
so much that my socks were full of blood when I came home. No way will I ever
wear those clogs again', I told my mother, and I didn't. Just give me plimsolls
any day of the week.

But the mill folk needed them to protect their feet in the mills. The clogs were
very practical for them, but not for me.

IRENE WOODCOCK

Pickmere Terrace, Dukinfield

A busy year

for Amnesty

2012 kept Amnesty International busy working to protect human rights.

While we started the year with hope for fledgling democracies like Libya and
Egypt, at the year's end there were protesters in Tahrir Square once more.

Meanwhile, in Syria the death toll since the start of the uprising is reported
to have reached 40,000 many of them civilians.

There are other threats around the world, such as the proposed kill the gays'
bill in Uganda, the alarming prosecution of journalist Kostaas Vaxeanis in
Greece for reporting on corruption.

It is a relief that Malala Yousafzai, the 15-year-old girl shot by the Taliban
for speaking out about the right to education of girls in Pakistan, is
recovering in hospital. But there are countless prisoners around the world
languishing in prisons who need our help. They include two of the three members
of Russian punk band Pussy Riot.

India and Japan both resumed the use of the death penalty, although Connecticut
was the 17th American state to vote to end the use of the death penalty.

If you would like to get involved in Amnesty, we meet every third Wednesday of
the month at the Central Methodist Church in Glossop (8pm).

ROSIE GIBBS, Amnesty Glossop Group Secretary

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1398 words


Council shame over green belt

I WAS interested to read Diane Deakin's letter (January 10) about Tameside
council's decision to grant Greenview Homes (odd title that, since they are the
ones getting rid of the green) permission to build nine houses on a green area
enclosed by Slateacre Road, Arnold Avenue and Highcroft, Gee Cross.

This does not affect me personally, but like Diane, I am completely outraged
about it.

I have looked at the two semi-detached houses on Slateacre Road that will have
to be knocked down to make an access road to the proposed new nine houses.

Two perfectly well built houses to go where's the sense in that? All that
upheaval for the residents, not to mention the wildlife.

The council should be ashamed of this decision. It's morally wrong when there
are plenty of empty sites available in the same area.

I would imagine a large number of Tameside residents will be rankled by this
decision. We need to preserve our green belt.

Diane is perfectly right this will set a precedent for developers to think they
can get away with it.

We need to preserve our green belt for future generations, once it's gone, it's
gone forever. We must not let this

happen.

PATRICIA MULLINEAUX

Brabyns Road

Gee Cross

Park needs

new toilets

AS a dog walker in Victoria Park, Denton, I would like to advise Tameside
council that since the closure of the public toilets, children and adults are
having to urinate or more in the bushes. It is a most unpleasant sight and
odour.

Children play for hours. But, quite naturally, need to relieve themselves.

Hyde Park has its own toilets, why not Victoria Park? Surely as a public
facility it should have toilet facilities. What are we saying to our future
generation it is OK to urinate in public.

I know that Tameside council will tell us that it does not have the funds.

But please look at the maintenance of the two bowling greens, which are only
used a few weeks of the year.

At least get rid of one, so that we can provide basic facilities and not ask
local people to break the law.

PAMELA STONE

Denton

MPs of vision and integrity

ONE of the greatest threats to our democracy is that the majority of politicians
are not trusted by the people at large.

People are growing indifferent to voting because the general consensus is that
they say one thing, but when they are in power, do the opposite.

We know they are highly trained on how to answer questions, or how not to answer
salient questions.

Image is very important to politicians but the public have been circumvented so
many times that they can now see right through this facade.

We hanker after integrity and altruism and politicians who have genuine empathy
with people of all classes.

It is easy to forecast a further stalemate in the next general election as so
many people are undecided on which party is the worse of the main two.

Our country needs politicians of vision, integrity and inspirational qualities.
I suspect the next general election will reflect that our people feel these
traits are sadly lacking in our politicians.

This does represent the biggest danger to democracy today.

HARRY SINGLETON

Salisbury Crescent, Ashton

Labour left a

huge deficit

I WOULD like to respond to the letter from D Glynn (January 3) in which he tries
to argue that Labour inherited a poor economic situation and then turned it
round.

Even the leaders of the Labour Party have not tried this excuse. The simple
undeniable fact is that they ran up the largest budget deficit this country has
experienced since the end of the Second World War.

If they were competent then, like other countries, they would have built up a
surplus and would have been able to manage the recession.

Having run up such a deficit they have no policies on how to reduce it, only to
go on spending more money with no regard as to where it will come from other
than to increase your taxes.

DAVE WESTHEAD

Chairman , Ashton Under Lyne Conservative Association

Why it's sensible to be an agnostic

IN response to Mr Borrell's letter (Advertiser, January 3) I wish to write that
I respect his scientific spirituality in which I see no contradiction as opposed
to a passionate Christian conviction, but feel that a most sensible and
sensitive perspective on life's great mysteries may be that of the agnostic.

It is impossible to prove the existence or the non-existence of God. It is
impossible, thus far, to absolutely prove any first cause' of how the cosmos
came into being.

Yet one may have the faith and convictions of a sincere Christian believer in a
modest, indeed humble and unfanatical way.

Our lives are maybe a matter and spirit of hope, tolerance, quest and despite
the advances of science, a continuing cloud of unknowing'.

DAVID ROBISHAW

Boyds Walk, Dukinfield

Signs of poor spelling

I AM amazed at the professional shop signs in Denton that have been

incorrectly spelt.

In the Crown Point/Hyde Road area we have signs on four shops with the words
Accessoires (should be accessories); StationARY (advertising writing media so
this should be stationERY); pay your counSIL tax here; And finally buy your
FRESHLEY made sandwiches'. We also had a shop advertising under new
managerment'.

What on earth has happened to basic spelling? If they were hand written that
would be bad enough, but these have been professionally made and paid for, so
there is no excuse. Spell checkers are available now on computers (or even an
old fashioned dictionary would suffice).

I despair.

DEBBIE RIDLEY

Denton

Thank you

Tameside hospital

HAVING recently had to undergo an operation in Tameside hospital, I would like
to thank my local GP, surgeons and all the nursing staff for the wonderful care
and attention I received whilst in the surgical ward.

They helped make an anxious time for myself and family easier and I cannot thank
them enough. We are all quick to criticise, we should be just as quick to
praise.

Mr R HOWARTH

Knowl Street, Stalybridge

Thanks for

helping after I fell

ON Tuesday January 8, I had a fall in Ashton indoor market.

I would just like to say a huge thank you to the very kind young man on the pet
stall, to the lady who stayed with me until the first aider arrived and also to
the first aider.

I am pleased to say that I suffered no serious injuries.

JOAN MITCHELL

Cedar Grove, Denton

Clogs? Good for mill but not for me

HOW I enjoyed your heritage page (Advertiser January 3) about clogs.

Nobody saw more clogs than me, or heard them, living among the dark satanic
mills of Tame Valley at Dukinfield. Day in, day out, the folks walked to their
various mills wearing clogs. My dad bought a pair of children's clogs for me and
my sister and so they would last us until we grew out of them, he reinforced the
clogs with metal around the toe cap.

My sister wore her clogs every day to school but I only went once in mine.

They played havoc with my feet; they rubbed my ankle bone, my heel and my toes
so much that my socks were full of blood when I came home. No way will I ever
wear those clogs again', I told my mother, and I didn't. Just give me plimsolls
any day of the week.

But the mill folk needed them to protect their feet in the mills. The clogs were
very practical for them, but not for me.

IRENE WOODCOCK

Pickmere Terrace, Dukinfield

A busy year

for Amnesty

2012 kept Amnesty International busy working to protect human rights.

While we started the year with hope for fledgling democracies like Libya and
Egypt, at the year's end there were protesters in Tahrir Square once more.

Meanwhile, in Syria the death toll since the start of the uprising is reported
to have reached 40,000 many of them civilians.

There are other threats around the world, such as the proposed kill the gays'
bill in Uganda, the alarming prosecution of journalist Kostaas Vaxeanis in
Greece for reporting on corruption.

It is a relief that Malala Yousafzai, the 15-year-old girl shot by the Taliban
for speaking out about the right to education of girls in Pakistan, is
recovering in hospital. But there are countless prisoners around the world
languishing in prisons who need our help. They include two of the three members
of Russian punk band Pussy Riot.

India and Japan both resumed the use of the death penalty, although Connecticut
was the 17th American state to vote to end the use of the death penalty.

If you would like to get involved in Amnesty, we meet every third Wednesday of
the month at the Central Methodist Church in Glossop (8pm).

ROSIE GIBBS, Amnesty Glossop Group Secretary

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1398 words


Council shame over green belt

I WAS interested to read Diane Deakin's letter (January 10) about Tameside
council's decision to grant Greenview Homes (odd title that, since they are the
ones getting rid of the green) permission to build nine houses on a green area
enclosed by Slateacre Road, Arnold Avenue and Highcroft, Gee Cross.

This does not affect me personally, but like Diane, I am completely outraged
about it.

I have looked at the two semi-detached houses on Slateacre Road that will have
to be knocked down to make an access road to the proposed new nine houses.

Two perfectly well built houses to go where's the sense in that? All that
upheaval for the residents, not to mention the wildlife.

The council should be ashamed of this decision. It's morally wrong when there
are plenty of empty sites available in the same area.

I would imagine a large number of Tameside residents will be rankled by this
decision. We need to preserve our green belt.

Diane is perfectly right this will set a precedent for developers to think they
can get away with it.

We need to preserve our green belt for future generations, once it's gone, it's
gone forever. We must not let this

happen.

PATRICIA MULLINEAUX

Brabyns Road

Gee Cross

Park needs

new toilets

AS a dog walker in Victoria Park, Denton, I would like to advise Tameside
council that since the closure of the public toilets, children and adults are
having to urinate or more in the bushes. It is a most unpleasant sight and
odour.

Children play for hours. But, quite naturally, need to relieve themselves.

Hyde Park has its own toilets, why not Victoria Park? Surely as a public
facility it should have toilet facilities. What are we saying to our future
generation it is OK to urinate in public.

I know that Tameside council will tell us that it does not have the funds.

But please look at the maintenance of the two bowling greens, which are only
used a few weeks of the year.

At least get rid of one, so that we can provide basic facilities and not ask
local people to break the law.

PAMELA STONE

Denton

MPs of vision and integrity

ONE of the greatest threats to our democracy is that the majority of politicians
are not trusted by the people at large.

People are growing indifferent to voting because the general consensus is that
they say one thing, but when they are in power, do the opposite.

We know they are highly trained on how to answer questions, or how not to answer
salient questions.

Image is very important to politicians but the public have been circumvented so
many times that they can now see right through this facade.

We hanker after integrity and altruism and politicians who have genuine empathy
with people of all classes.

It is easy to forecast a further stalemate in the next general election as so
many people are undecided on which party is the worse of the main two.

Our country needs politicians of vision, integrity and inspirational qualities.
I suspect the next general election will reflect that our people feel these
traits are sadly lacking in our politicians.

This does represent the biggest danger to democracy today.

HARRY SINGLETON

Salisbury Crescent, Ashton

Labour left a

huge deficit

I WOULD like to respond to the letter from D Glynn (January 3) in which he tries
to argue that Labour inherited a poor economic situation and then turned it
round.

Even the leaders of the Labour Party have not tried this excuse. The simple
undeniable fact is that they ran up the largest budget deficit this country has
experienced since the end of the Second World War.

If they were competent then, like other countries, they would have built up a
surplus and would have been able to manage the recession.

Having run up such a deficit they have no policies on how to reduce it, only to
go on spending more money with no regard as to where it will come from other
than to increase your taxes.

DAVE WESTHEAD

Chairman , Ashton Under Lyne Conservative Association

Why it's sensible to be an agnostic

IN response to Mr Borrell's letter (Advertiser, January 3) I wish to write that
I respect his scientific spirituality in which I see no contradiction as opposed
to a passionate Christian conviction, but feel that a most sensible and
sensitive perspective on life's great mysteries may be that of the agnostic.

It is impossible to prove the existence or the non-existence of God. It is
impossible, thus far, to absolutely prove any first cause' of how the cosmos
came into being.

Yet one may have the faith and convictions of a sincere Christian believer in a
modest, indeed humble and unfanatical way.

Our lives are maybe a matter and spirit of hope, tolerance, quest and despite
the advances of science, a continuing cloud of unknowing'.

DAVID ROBISHAW

Boyds Walk, Dukinfield

Signs of poor spelling

I AM amazed at the professional shop signs in Denton that have been

incorrectly spelt.

In the Crown Point/Hyde Road area we have signs on four shops with the words
Accessoires (should be accessories); StationARY (advertising writing media so
this should be stationERY); pay your counSIL tax here; And finally buy your
FRESHLEY made sandwiches'. We also had a shop advertising under new
managerment'.

What on earth has happened to basic spelling? If they were hand written that
would be bad enough, but these have been professionally made and paid for, so
there is no excuse. Spell checkers are available now on computers (or even an
old fashioned dictionary would suffice).

I despair.

DEBBIE RIDLEY

Denton

Thank you

Tameside hospital

HAVING recently had to undergo an operation in Tameside hospital, I would like
to thank my local GP, surgeons and all the nursing staff for the wonderful care
and attention I received whilst in the surgical ward.

They helped make an anxious time for myself and family easier and I cannot thank
them enough. We are all quick to criticise, we should be just as quick to
praise.

Mr R HOWARTH

Knowl Street, Stalybridge

Thanks for

helping after I fell

ON Tuesday January 8, I had a fall in Ashton indoor market.

I would just like to say a huge thank you to the very kind young man on the pet
stall, to the lady who stayed with me until the first aider arrived and also to
the first aider.

I am pleased to say that I suffered no serious injuries.

JOAN MITCHELL

Cedar Grove, Denton

Clogs? Good for mill but not for me

HOW I enjoyed your heritage page (Advertiser January 3) about clogs.

Nobody saw more clogs than me, or heard them, living among the dark satanic
mills of Tame Valley at Dukinfield. Day in, day out, the folks walked to their
various mills wearing clogs. My dad bought a pair of children's clogs for me and
my sister and so they would last us until we grew out of them, he reinforced the
clogs with metal around the toe cap.

My sister wore her clogs every day to school but I only went once in mine.

They played havoc with my feet; they rubbed my ankle bone, my heel and my toes
so much that my socks were full of blood when I came home. No way will I ever
wear those clogs again', I told my mother, and I didn't. Just give me plimsolls
any day of the week.

But the mill folk needed them to protect their feet in the mills. The clogs were
very practical for them, but not for me.

IRENE WOODCOCK

Pickmere Terrace, Dukinfield

A busy year

for Amnesty

2012 kept Amnesty International busy working to protect human rights.

While we started the year with hope for fledgling democracies like Libya and
Egypt, at the year's end there were protesters in Tahrir Square once more.

Meanwhile, in Syria the death toll since the start of the uprising is reported
to have reached 40,000 many of them civilians.

There are other threats around the world, such as the proposed kill the gays'
bill in Uganda, the alarming prosecution of journalist Kostaas Vaxeanis in
Greece for reporting on corruption.

It is a relief that Malala Yousafzai, the 15-year-old girl shot by the Taliban
for speaking out about the right to education of girls in Pakistan, is
recovering in hospital. But there are countless prisoners around the world
languishing in prisons who need our help. They include two of the three members
of Russian punk band Pussy Riot.

India and Japan both resumed the use of the death penalty, although Connecticut
was the 17th American state to vote to end the use of the death penalty.

If you would like to get involved in Amnesty, we meet every third Wednesday of
the month at the Central Methodist Church in Glossop (8pm).

ROSIE GIBBS, Amnesty Glossop Group Secretary

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                             April 14, 2014 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Widow fights man who may be prime minister; Claims he was complicit in riots in
India that saw her husband hacked to death

BYLINE: DEAN NELSON, The London Daily Telegraph

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: AHMEDABAD, India


Minutes before he was hacked to death by a Hindu mob, veteran Muslim politician
Ehsan Jafri reached for his phone and dialed one last number.

For the dozens of neighbours cowering in his home, it seemed like their only
chance. At the other end of the line, Jafri told them, was Narendra Modi, the
powerful Hindu politician who is widely expected to become India's new prime
minister next month. In 2002, though, he was the chief minister of Jafri's home
state of Gujarat, and arguably the only man who could save them from the crowds
outside.

By the time Jafri finished the phone conversation, however, he knew they were
doomed. Far from offering help, Modi had taunted him and even expressed surprise
that he was still alive, Jafri told those around him in his final moments. "No
help will come," Jafri added.

Shortly afterwards, Jafri's wife, Zakia, watched in horror from a balcony as
rioters marched her husband naked from their home and chopped off his fingers,
hands, arms and head.

Twelve years after the riots which left more than 700 Muslims dead, Modi is
cruising to become the leader of the world's largest democracy, which will
declare results from its mammoth nine-phase general election on May 18. Jafri,
however, wants him prosecuted for abetting mass murder, over what was one of
India's worst ever outbreaks of communal violence.

Now 75, she seems an unlikely opponent to Modi, 63, who is being courted by
world leaders. He might, however, be unwise to underestimate her. On Friday, she
won another round in her fight to reopen a judicial inquiry that exonerated him
of any responsibility for the riots.

Last week, she and her former neighbours held a campaign meeting in the charred
ruins of their abandoned homes in Ahmedabad. It was here, on Feb. 28, 2002, that
the mob attacked, following rumours that Muslims had been responsible for the
deaths of 58 Hindu pilgrims in a train fire at Godra the previous day.

In an interview with London's Daily Telegraph, Jafri told how she saw the mob
trying to force her husband to sing Hindu prayers. When he resisted, "they beat
him with swords," she said. "They chopped his hands and arms bit by bit."

Her claim that Modi should be held to account for the massacres is based on
conversations with Indian police officers, who told her they had been ordered to
stay at home during the rioting. "Why does an old lady still want to fight
against this powerful man?" she asked. "Because I'm on the path of truth. I will
fight for justice, and I will win."

Some fellow Muslims, however, question the point of pursuing the case now. They
say that Modi had only been in his post as minister of Gujarat for a few days
when the riots broke out, and had yet to master the levers of government.

For his part, Modi denies speaking on the telephone to Jafri that day. While he
offered his resignation as minister in the wake of the riots, he has never
publicly apologized for failing to save Muslims or visited survivors, for fear
opponents would make political capital of it.

But survivors say his decision to visit the scene of the Godra train fire
incident and to remember only Hindu victims still rankled with them. "I lost
everything, my son, my house," said Rupaben Mody, a witness to the massacre. "I
don't want him to be prime minister. All I can do is appeal to the people of
India to support a mother's struggle."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAM PANTHAKY, AFP, GETTY IMAGES; Zakia Jafri says her husband called
the man likely to become India's next prime minister as a Hindu mob surrounded
their home, but received taunts instead of help.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Montreal Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                            September 3, 2012 Monday

Any buyers for brand Modi ?

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: PANJIM


PANJIM, Sept. 3 -- Our history books lie to us. And that is one reason we do not
learn from history. We are always taught to measure development and progress by
the various battles fought, the various places conquered, the various places
built. We are rarely taught the ideology of the rulers, their thought process or
their socio- cultural mores. And now in the modern times development and
progress seem the two most abused words. What then is our connotation of these
two words? Is human progress to be only measured by the number of factories, the
number of corporations, the number of cars, and the number of consumable goods
in society? What then, about thought, ideology, ethics, culture, philosophy?
Three thousand Sikhs were killed in the 1984 riots during the Congress regime.
Two thousand Muslims were massacred in the Gujarat riots and thousands rendered
homeless, and all this with the collusion of the government and police.

In view of this, Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi should have been ousted,
by the people, immediately. Instead he was re- elected as the messiah of "
development", and is now being postured as the Prime Ministerial candidate.

And big corporates are fighting to invest in Gujarat, as if it is the mecca of
development in India. Mecca is a wrong word to use here, I guess.

No matter how many schools, colleges, factories, and industries you might build,
if you accept genocide of a certain people, then what kind of doctors, what kind
of students, what kind of industrialists, what kind of citizens and what kind of
human beings are you producing as a society? Thankfully, a doctor has been
convicted, from the Modi brigade, for distributing swords, to aid riots! The
core questions are--- Is the economy of a state more important than the lives
and dignity of its people? Is our affluence as a society, to be achieved at the
cost of our humanity? Are we as a nation losing sight of our own self respect
and selling it for a few consumer goods? Development of a nation needs to be in
a holistic way such that it upholds the basic tenets of our Preamble- Justice,
Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.

Have we as a nation stood our ground even on one of these? And yet we speak of
the hollow numbers of GDP. Even when that was at its highest, more than half of
India lived below the poverty line. Any ' development' that occurs at the cost
of some sections of society is actually a shame on the other sections of
society.

We are delimiting the meaning of human and social ' development' by confining it
to materialism . An economy might develop in this way but a culture cannot. We
are looking at very short term goals.

We ignore the long term effects of such a precarious, lopsided and uni-
dimensional development. The basic tenet of ' development' in human terms will
always be the development of great ideologies and an egalitarian way of life
where each human being can live with dignity. Brand Modi might be for sale. But
all of us don't have to buy it. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Herald Goa. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                            January 10, 2016 Sunday

Malda and peace

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: Goa


Goa, Jan. 10 -- India has a very shameful history of communal riots. Fanning
communal passions is a very easy task in India. Be it the Hindus or Muslims or
any other community for that matter, each community has a host of radical and
trouble-making elements.

The recent riots in Malda are a very manifestation of this. What Azam Khan
allegedly said about RSS members was wrong, and what Kamlesh Tiwari allegedly
said about Prophet Mohammad was also wrong. Two wrongs do not make a right.
Plus, religious sentiments remain a very sensitive issue in India even today.
The riots in Malda and the arson, violence and intolerance there is certainly
condemnable. It is an example of how the law and order situation has failed in
West Bengal and the state govt. is incapable of handling it.

Many of the protestors condemning Kamlesh Tiwari are demanding death penalty for
him. This demand may sound fantastic when we get sentimental, but is it
warranted? Do our laws have a provision to give death to a person, if he is
convicted of hate speech? I do not think so. Plus, a nation like India cannot
have archaic apostasy laws which will hang people.

Also, we had many petitions and opinions against death penalty when Yaqoob Memon
was hanged. It was claimed by many that death penalty should not be meted out
now as capital punishment is archaic in nature. So, does the same argument hold
true for Kamlesh Tiwari now?

Another aspect of this Malda riots is how the Hindutva rightwing are using this
riot to prove that the media is "anti-Hindu". They question why the media is
"silent" and "less reactive" over Malda, and a direct parallel is sought to be
drawn with Dadri. They also question the "deafening silence of the
intellectuals" over this. Only the media and the intellectuals can give a reply
to their allegations.

I agree fully that the Malda incident was a bad happening, and I do condemn it
as an example of intolerance.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              The Plymouth Herald

                           February 28, 2015 Saturday

Mum's first novel was an eight-year labour of love

SECTION: FEATURES:PEOPLE; Pg. 18-19

LENGTH: 1666  words


THE route to seeing her first novel hit the bookshops has been long and troubled
for Susmita Bhattacharya.

The mother-of-two had an eight-year labour before The Normal State Of Mind was
accepted by a publisher.

Her story of a friendship, and two unconventional affairs, in India should have
been out to coincide with Plymouth International Book Festival last autumn.

Instead a personal drama put the publication on hold.

She was diagnosed with breast cancer last summer and has spent months going
through chemotherapy and radiation treatment after the operation to remove the
tumour.

At last the treatment is nearing an end and life as a published novelist will
begin next month when her book finally arrives.

You might expect that the last thing Susmita would want to talk about is the
cancer, with the good news of the publication on which to concentrate.

Instead, the disease is the first subject that she covers.

"I am not going to keep it from people," she says Susmita, who lives in
Plympton. "I want people to be aware of it.

"I became aware because my friend had had cancer and she talked about it."

Susmita's desire to shine a light on subjects that are taboos among many
communities in the subcontinent - gay affairs between women, and a widow
striving for her own mental and sexual satisfaction - illuminates her book, a
beautifully told story that demonstrates her perfect ear for dialogue and 20:20
vision for character.

A similar determination to talk openly about what is often a private and
personal matter of health in Britain spurs her on to discuss in detail the
effects of cancer on herself and her family.

"There was nothing obviously wrong," she begins. "No symptoms or lumps. My
breast just felt a bit different (to the touch). The shape had changed.

"My friend said she had had the same. I went to the GP and they did not find
anything, either."

But because Susmita had concerns the doctor said the breast ought to be checked
out further.

Ten years previously she had found a lump that turned out to be benign. "I just
had a gut feeling this time," she says. "When I was told it was cancer my mind
just went blank.

"I did not process it. I thought, 'Let's get on with it'. There were no
emotional scenes, nothing.

"The first thing the breast cancer nurse asked was 'how old are your children?'"

Her daughters Mihika and Rohini are now four and eight respectively but were
then a year younger.

"That hit me. I thought, 'They are too young not to have a mother. Oh, my gosh,
I am going to die from this'.

"The nurse assured me I was not."

The operation and treatment followed, eating up much of her life. "I am
extremely lucky with the support I have had," says Susmita.

Her mother came over on holiday from India and she and Susmita's husband,
Syamantak - a lecturer at Plymouth University's business school - looked after
the girls.

Later her mother-in-law - who is a cancer survivor and runs a counselling
service in India - came to Plymouth to help.

Susmita praises the 'fantastic'  support of the Mustard Tree Macmillan Centre,
the Primrose breast care unit and the oncology department at Derriford Hospital.
Her children coped as kids do: often matter-of-factly about the side-effects
including hair loss. Susmita recalls how Rohini saw a drain from her operation
wound.

"She told the class, 'my mum has a bag full of blood'. They were all freaked
out!" Susmita laughs.

She did an occasional blog on how she was faring, but was too fatigued to
continue the process of editing the book.

"It was so frustrating. I was so close to publication, so close to the finish
line, and this happened.

"The publishers (Parthian) were extremely supportive. They said they would go
with how I felt."

Perversely, she sometimes felt full of energy. The steroids given to help her
through the debilitating effects of her chemotherapy kicked in and spurred her
on at an express rate.

She heard about a novel-writing competition with an imminent deadline, sat down
and wrote 5,000 words in one go, and sent the work straight off.

"I did not even check it! It felt so cool to do that."

As for the content of the next book, "it is in an early stage. I don't want to
get into it yet".

Clearly, Susmita is relishing the impending publication of The Normal State Of
Mind, after all she has gone through and such a wait for publication.

The book is set at the end of the previous millennium. India has made huge
strides in science and technology and in economic growth, but what about social
change?

Dipali, who is newly married, has her life thrown into turmoil when her husband
is killed by a bomb attack in Mumbai. She longs for male company.

In Calcutta, her friend Moushumi listens while her parents discuss suitable
husbands. But she longs for female company.

"Can a friendship between two women give them the power to defy society, and
law, to reach for their dreams?" runs the blurb on the book.

"In the midst of communal riots, India too has to make her own decisions about
which traditions she must keep, and which she ought to let go.

"At the end of it all, who can decide what is the normal state of mind?"

Susmita describes the work as "a social commentary literary book about women and
their value in India.

"I wanted to go deeply into the lives of women who are not recognised for who
they are, who cannot come out openly."

Susmita's own story begins in Mumbai, where she was born.

Her mother taught English and her father had a business - "nothing major".

Susmita chose to go on to an art college, against her father's wishes - he
wanted her to study science.

Was there some inter-generational conflict? Some tension over a woman exercising
her choice?

Is this how the germ of the novel about women making their own way in modern
India started?

"He was not very happy at the beginning," says Susmita.

"But my dad was very cool. He did not object to anything."

Her experiences after studying applied art at Sophia Polytechnic do feed into
the novel, though. She worked as an apprentice to a fashion photographer - one
of the characters in the book works in that profession.

She was working in graphics and web design when she met Syamantak, a merchant
navy chief officer.

Their courtship was brief - they met only ten or 11 times when he was on periods
of shore leave - and they married in 2000. The next month she joined him on his
oil tanker and they sailed the world for three years.

"It was absolutely fantastic training for a writer," she says. "Most of the time
I was the only woman on board. When he was promoted to captain I had nobody
apart from my husband to talk to.

"I suppose it was out of respect. I had all the time to paint, and write and
explore when we went ashore."

After the spell at sea they moved to the UK so that Syamantak could do a PhD at
Cardiff University.

Susmita has been an avid reader since she was a child - "I'd read all the Enid
Blyton Famous Five books when I was a little girl. I got my complete idea of
what England was like from them: everyone ate scones and jam. I got a dreadful
shock when I came here!"

She always wrote, too: poetry when she was a girl through to journals when she
was onboard ship.

So she went to creative writing evening classes. There, an encouraging teacher
urged her to do a master's degree in the subject at Cardiff University, which
she completed in 2006.

The Normal State Of Mind grew out of her dissertation for her master's degree.
Progress from that to a full book was slow, however.

"Before my first daughter was born I had all the time in the world to write,
which meant I did not start," she says.

"I did not have focus. When she was born I only had 15 minutes at a time and I
thought, 'now I can do something'.

"They always say, 'write about what you know' so I wrote about women in India."

The book took seven years to finish. She failed to find a publisher and
continued with short stories.

One of those, Growing Tomatoes, was published in Planet - The Welsh
Internationalist Magazine, leading to a favourable review on a social media
site.

"An editor (with Parthian) saw the review, picked up the story and approached me
asking if I had anything else I could send her, so I sent my novel," she said.

"It's all thanks to Facebook."

Susmita says she wanted to use the story of a friendship between two women to
explore themes in modern India. I had come across lots of gay men. I wondered
where the gay women were. Did they exist in India?

"I met a girl in Cardiff who wanted to come out, but hid it. That started me
thinking that it was not as easy for lesbians to come out in the open.

"I decided to make the other character a widow because in India there are lots
of problems to do with inheritance and other issues."

She says her reading through her life ranged from John Grisham thrillers to
historical books about the kings and queens of England. The master's degree did
not just teach her what to read, but how to read it.

"The world opened up," adds Susmita, who has gone on to lead creative writing
workshops and teach English as a foreign language since moving to Plymouth after
completing the degree in Cardiff.  Susmita has continued to enjoy success with
short stories. Comfort Food won a Pushcart nomination and Good Golly Miss Molly
was highly commended in the Frome Festival short story competition.

She is currently reading A Small Fortune, which explores the lives of an
extended family in England and Pakistan. The author, Rosie Dastgir, was born in
England to a Pakistani father and an English mother.

As for her own book, she admits that she still cannot believe, after all she has
been through, that The Normal State Of Mind will be out within a couple of
weeks.

"Until I hold it in my hand I can't really say what it feels like to have a book
published," she says.

"All this work has been put into it. I feel excited that people will read it but
I sometimes feel terrified that people will read it and not like it."

The Normal State of Mind is published by Parthian at £8.99. The launch is at
Waterstone's, New George Street, Saturday March 14, 4-5.30pm

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Susmita Bhattacharya's novel, above, and (right, at centre) with her
mum Swati Das, husband Syamantak Bhattacharya and daughters Mihika and Rohini
(pictured bottom right)
Susmita Bhattacharya

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

US court summons Cong, Kamal Nath for 1984 riots

BYLINE: Ramaninder K Bhatia

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 301 words


CHANDIGARH: A US district court has summoned the Congress (I), earlier avatar of
Congress, for ''conspiring, aiding, abetting and carrying out organized attacks
on the Sikh population of India in November 1984''. On March 1, the US District
Court for the Southern District of New York, summoned Congress (I) following a
law suit filed by Sikhs For Justice (SFJ). This is a US-based human rights group
pursuing the 1984 anti-Sikh riots cases in India and US under Alien Tort Claims
Act (ATCA) and Torture Victim Protection Act (TVPA).

The SFJ, along with families of some of the Sikh victims, is pursuing the case
in the US court. The families had shifted to USA after the riots. Union minister
Kamal Nath is also one of the respondents in the case.

''Within 21 days of the service of this summon on you... you must serve on the
plaintiff an answer to the unattached complaint or a motion under rule 12 of the
Federal Rules of Civil procedure,'' read the summons sent to Congress-I and
Kamal Nath at the US office of Indian National Overseas Congress at Union
Street, Flushing, New York.

In a statement, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, SFJ's legal advisor, said, ''The
gravity, scale and specially the organized nature of these attacks was concealed
by the Indian government portraying them as November 1984 anti-Sikh riots of
Delhi. These attacks were neither riots nor were they confined to Delhi alone.
In fact, during November 1984, Sikhs were attacked in 18 states and more than
100 cities of India in an identical manner and the attackers were led by
Congress (I) leaders.''

Jatinder Singh Grewal, SFJ youth coordinator, said Congress (I) ''committed
genocide against Sikhs as defined in Article 2 of UN Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 1948''.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

For minorities, justice denied

LENGTH: 839  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, March 1 -- Two recent legal developments underscore the dismal state
of Hindus in Pakistan and of Muslims in India. While Pakistan's parliamentary
legal select committee approved the Hindu Marriage Bill for its about four
million Hindu population, two district courts in India began acquitting the
accused of the Muzaffarnagar Hindu-Muslim riots of 2013 in which 60 people were
killed and thousands were displaced.

The proposed Hindu Marriage Bill that has come after 69 years however is only
significant in the sense that now Hindus in Pakistan will be allowed to govern
their civil affairs according to their own customary traditions and they will be
able to get their marriages registered and properties transferred. The bill will
not address the abduction, forced conversions and marriages of the girls of the
Hindu community as it has a contentious provision that states that if any one of
the Hindu couple decides to convert to another religion, the marriage will be
illegal. While the proposed law, in a way, legalises post marriage conversion,
it does not put any deterrent on pre-marriage abductions and conversions. The
majority of Hindu girls abducted, converted and married are below 13 years of
age as post-puberty marriage of girls is allowed in Pakistan.

The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) has noted that Pakistan has
failed to save Hindus from "disgusting excesses such as forced conversion of
young women." A report from the Movement for Solidarity and Peace, a
human-rights organisation based in Pakistan, estimates that nearly 1,000
non-Muslim girls are forcibly converted to Islam every year. According to the
Pakistan Hindu Panchyat, about 1,000 girls are forced to convert in Sindh
province alone each year. The courts rarely dispense justice to Hindus in
Pakistan in the cases of forced marriages. So much so that a noted human-rights
advocate Amarnath Motumal advises his community members not to go to courts with
cases of forced marriages saying, "We close the doors when we go to courts for
justice."

The conditions of the Muslim community in India are no better as they have also
been denied justice in a systematic way over and again. The acquittal of the
accused in the Muzaffarnagar riots cases (2013) recently is condemnable but not
a new event as the instigators and executors of riots have gone unpunished in
India for so long now. The Muzaffarnagar riots accused have been acquitted in
six different cases including dacoity, gang rape and murder. In a similar way, a
Delhi court in March 2015 acquitted all 16 accused in the 28-year-old Hashimpura
massacre (Meerut riots, Uttar Pradesh, 1989) citing insufficient evidence.
Nineteen police personnel were accused of picking up 42 men of the Muslim
community from Hashimpura area of Meerut town and shooting them down at the
nearby canal. A counsel for the victims and survivors, Rebecca John, summed it
up perfectly: "If today is not the day we hang our heads in shame, there can be
no other day."

Some 900 people died in the Bombay riots of 1993 but only three convictions have
been handed down. The Sri Krishna Commission, set up to inquire into the Bombay
riots, recommended de-communalisation of the police force as it had found it
biased against Muslims in the police-firing incidents. The recommendations were
never implemented. The conviction rate in the Gujarat riots of 2002 has been the
worst so far, at a paltry between 0.21 and 1.18 percent. Certainly, despite the
mammoth efforts of civil society organisations and judicial intervention from
the highest level - India's Supreme Court - it is a pathetic outcome that speaks
for itself.

The Prevention of the Communal Violence bill remained unlegislated in the
parliament for nine years from 2005 to 2014. It was withdrawn just before the
16th general elections by the Congress party that ruled the nation for 10 years
before giving way to the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the bill a
"recipe for disaster," signalling that the BJP has little interest in preventing
communal violence legally.

As the debate surrounding beef eating, sedition, anti-national, Bhartmata, etc.,
gets shriller at the behest of Hindutva forces, the Muslim minority in India is
likely to come under more intense pressure. Thankfully, given democracy in the
country, Muslims in India enjoy some political clout. Much of their state of
survival will depend on how effectively the Muslims use this democratic power to
counter the onslaught of political forces of the Hindu right, who are the direct
beneficiary of the continuous flogging of Muslims. The Hindu minority in
Pakistan however seems truly vulnerable as it lacks the numeric strength to have
any democratic clout. Pakistani parliament's belated efforts need to go further
in order to afford the Hindu community proper legal protection.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

Riots unfortunate, won't recur, Narendra Modi told EU envoys

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 648 words


NEW DELHI: German ambassador Michael Steiner on Friday declared that the
European Union has ended its boycott of Narendra Modi in what marked a big step
towards ending the diplomatic isolation the Gujarat chief minister has faced
since the 2002 communal riots.

The statement came a day after EU's ambassador to India Joao Cravinho announced
the group's intention to engage with Modi. With the UK having already reached
out to Modi, the US remains the only missing piece in a full scale diplomatic
embrace of the BJP leader who has emerged as a strong contender for the party's
PM nomination. China and Japan never shunned Modi largely because of the
business potential of Gujarat.

As reported on Friday, European envoys met Modi over lunch in January to discuss
certain issues, including accountability for the 2002 riots. It is learnt that
Modi described the riots as "unfortunate". He is said to have also assured them
that something like that is never likely to happen again. Although this fell far
short of the apology that he has been asked to submit for the riots, the regret
may facilitate the process of re-engagement with the a bloc which has set tough
thresholds on issued like inter-faith harmony, human rights, environment and
other concerns.

It is also learnt that Modi said all the "right things'' in the meeting,
including that he was all for an "inclusive approach'' in the governance of the
country. Modi also said that he would respect any verdict of the judiciary.

Taking off from where Cravinho left, Steiner, who hosted the lunch for Modi,
said the EU respected India's democratic institutions, its election results and
also had full faith in India's judicial system.

"Because of this respect and trust, we are now in a new phase," Steiner said,
adding that even the Indian people will like this respect. "We had said that we
would take a fresh look at the issue after the Gujarat elections and that is
what we are doing when we talk to him directly,'' he said, refusing to
elaborate.

In reaching out to Modi, the EU has followed in the footsteps of countries like
the UK and Japan, who have been looking to ramp up their economic engagement
with Gujarat. For Modi, of course, it means yet another significant endorsement
in the run up to the 2014 parliamentary elections.

The EU apparently felt that this was the right time to engage with Modi as he
had again proved that the people of Gujarat supported him and his developmental
agenda. The invitation to Modi for a meeting with the envoys was extended to him
days after the polling in Gujarat and before the results were out. The EU
already looks upon him as a national player. The issue of his emerging as a
probable prime ministerial candidate for BJP was not discussed at the meeting.

Asked if the EU, which has boycotted Modi for over 10 years since the riots, was
softening, Cravinho had said, "Some months ago, there was end of one part of
judicial process which shows that justice in India may be slow but it produces
results. And that has helped to look towards closure of what everybody agrees is
very terrible set of events''.

That is a fig leaf for the volte-face the Europeans have effected in the decade
after they banned Modi from travelling to Europe following the riots. The US had
sent a business and official team to the CM's biennial jamboree, Vibrant
Gujarat, last month and the expectation was that this would pave the way for the
ultimate US acceptance.

However, with a new Obama administration taking shape in Washington,
particularly a new State Department under the new Secretary of State John Kerry,
it is unlikely a US decision will be made anytime soon. Certainly not before
some key personnel changes have been made in the State Department. Sources
indicated that a change of heart in Washington was well on its way, though it is
unlikely to happen this year.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday

Faleiro says Narendra Modi's nomination 'most unfortunate'

SECTION: GOA

LENGTH: 210 words


PANAJI: Former Union minister Eduardo Faleiro has stateed that Gujarat chief
minister Narendra Modi's nomination as the chairman of Bharatiya Janata Party's
national election campaign committee is 'most unfortunate', adding that the
Supreme Court has faulted his failure to prosecute the guilty in communal riots
in his state.

In a press note, Faleiro alleged that Modi presided over the worst communal
riots that India ever witnessed and did nothing to prevent the massacre of
Muslims in Gujarat.

Faleiro also spoke about his visit to Gujarat post Godhra riots in early March,
2002, where he met people and was told about an attack where the mob carried
trishuls. After returning from Gujarat, he wrote a letter to the then Home
Minister, L K Advani on March 15, 2002 detailing the facts that he had witnessed
in that state.

In the letter, Faleiro urged Advani to deal resolutely with all forms of
religious extremism so that peace, harmony and the rule of law prevail
throughout the nation.

Faleiro concluded his statement saying that, "Secular democracy is the only
possible constitutional framework for this country. The concept of secularism is
linked inextricably with Indian democracy and one cannot exist without the
other".

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Gujarat riots led to formation of IM, Cong leader says

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 683 words


NEW DELHI: Congress's attack on Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi continued
with party general secretary Shakeel Ahmed on Sunday claiming that the 2002
riots in the state has led to the formation of terror outfit Indian Mujahideen.

The statement evoked a sharp response from BJP which slammed the Congress for
playing with national security and communalizing politics for votes as part of
its diversionary tactics to deflect people's attention from UPA's failures.

"Indian Mujahideen (IM) was formed after the Gujarat riots, says NIA in its
chargesheet. Even now BJP and RSS will not desist from their communal politics,"
Ahmed tweeted.

The Congress leader blamed the "communal politics of BJP for the chain reaction"
on terror. "This (2002 riots) was the reason behind the creation of Indian
Mujahideen. If they forsake their communal politics, outfits like IM will cease
to exist," Ahmed said. He named the RSS and BJP as the main sources of
communalism in the country.

The BJP hit back and accused Congress of actually trying to communalize the
political scenario and termed the remarks as "stupid" and "reprehensible". "It
is a stupid argument. Pakistan had been funding these outfits so please desist
from helping enemies of the country," BJP leader Venkaiah Naidu said.

The BJP also claimed that a "desperate" Congress was trying to play with
national security as the ruling party had "no answers for all the wrongs" it had
done.

"There is this competition among various Congress spokespersons and leaders to
deliberately communalize the country's political scenario, because they have no
answer to stinking corruption, malgovernance, price rice, unemployment, the
general sense of suffering the people of India are having," BJP leader
Ravishankar Prasad said.

Refuting Ahmed's contention, Prasad said terror outfits were active in the
country before the 2002 riots. "Why are they playing with national security? Is
it not a fact that IM has links with Pakistan-based terrorist outfits... Is it
not a fact that much before 2002, there was SIMI with designs to usher in
terrorist attacks in India. These are all too well known. Please don't play with
national security. This competitive politics for vote bank to deliberately stoke
communalism is reprehensible," he said.

In a charge-sheet filed on July 17 against five IM operatives for hatching a
conspiracy to carry out terror attacks in different parts of the country, the
NIA had said, "IM was formed in 2003 after ultra radicalized Muslim youth
segregated from the Student Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) due to communal
mobilization caused by factors like the riots in Gujarat in 2002 after the
Godhra train burning incident and the Babri Masjid demolition. They do not
believe in India's Constitution and IM's members nurse communal hatred against
the Hindu community."

Though IM came to notice for the first time when it sent emails to media houses
before serial blasts in Faizabad, Lucknow and Varanasi in UP in November 2007,
its genesis goes back to 2000 when the underworld network was roped in to
organize talent spotting, motivation and training of Indian youth in the
facilities of LeT and Pakistani intelligence agency ISI.

In fact, the terror outfit, in five of its six emails sent after carrying out
terror attacks in different cities during 2007-08, repeatedly mentioned Gujarat
riots and Babri Masjid demolition as responsible for their hatred towards the
Hindu community.

A dossier on IM, prepared by Delhi Police and other agencies, has explained in
length how the terror outfit was set up by ISI to project to the world that
Islamic terrorism in India was indigenous in character and content.

Calling IM a "start to finish jihad factory", the Delhi Police dossier had also
highlighted how Muslim youth were identified and trained as terrorists through
fiery and emotive 'taqrir' (speech) and attitude hardening 'dars' (lessons). It
noted that "brainwashing through doctored pictorials and videos, such as that of
Godhra and Babri Masjid incidents" was very common in those 'taqrirs' and
'dars'.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                        Facts on File World News Digest

                               December 31, 2003

India;
Dabhol Lenders Sue Government; Other Developments

SECTION: Pg. 1084E1

LENGTH: 1184 words


Foreign lenders to a failed Indian power business, Dabhol Power Co., had sued
the Indian government for about $600 million, it was reported November 7. The
banks included Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp., both of the U.S.;
Credit-Suisse First Boston of Switzerland's Credit Suisse Group; and ABN Amro of
the Netherlands. Dabhol, majority-owned by bankrupt U.S. energy giant Enron
Corp., had closed its power plant in 2001 after a local utility, its sole
customer, defaulted on payments. Upon Enron's collapse, a fight over the future
of Dabhol had ensued. [See 2002 Enron Bankruptcy: Shareholders Sue Enron's
Banks, Lawyers; Other Developments]

U.S.-based minority stake-owners General Electric Co. (GE) and Bechtel
Enterprises had also begun arbitration proceedings against the Indian government
to recover $600 million each in investments in Dabhol. A U.S. arbitration panel
September 9 awarded GE and Bechtel $28.5 million each in insurance payments from
the U.S. government's Overseas Private Investment Corp. to help cover their
Dabhol losses. The panel said India had seized the companies' investments
illegally. Dabhol was India's largest foreign investment to date.

Other News

 In other Indian news:

     ·    Nisha Sharma, 21, May 11 just before her wedding ceremony called the
          police when her groom's family demanded an additional dowry payment of
          $25,000. The groom and his mother were imprisoned, and Sharma, dubbed
          "Miss Anti-Dowry," became an instant nationwide sensation, inspiring
          more Indian women to resist dowry demands. Dowries were illegal in
          India, but the All India Democratic Women's Association had said it
          found an increase in dowry demands in a 2002 survey. Sharma, defying a
          lawsuit by her former groom, November 19 married someone else.
     ·    Taking advantage of a day designated by astrologers as auspicious,
          about 14,000 couples November 27 were married in Delhi. The day broke
          a slow period for India's large wedding industry due to what
          astrologers said was the "planetary mischief" of Jupiter.
     ·    Police in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state, were investigating
          complaints from villagers of maternal and fetal deaths due to
          negligence by unqualified workers, it was reported September 6. The
          Indian ministry of health in April had announced a program to improve
          maternal safety by paying women and midwives to deliver babies in
          hospitals, rather than at home, it was reported November 23. More than
          100,000 women died from pregnancy or childbirth complications each
          year in India, where most women gave birth at home. [See 2003 United
          Nations: News in Brief]
     ·    The Supreme Court September 10 ordered federal and state governments
          to enforce a ban on prenatal ultrasound scans for determining the sex
          of a fetus. The popular practice of aborting female fetuses had led to
          a gender imbalance in some states. [See 2001 India: Antiterrorism
          Decree Extended; Other Developments]
     ·    The World Bank, in its first review of Indian development policy, had
          warned India to reduce its public debt burden, which it estimated was
          between 80% and 90% of the country's gross national product, it was
          reported July 21. The high debt ratio threatened to hamper the
          economic growth rate, the bank said.
     ·    The southern state of Kerala's high court had ordered U.S.-based
          Coca-Cola Co. to stop drawing ground water at its bottling plant
          there, it was reported December 19. Locals had protested that the
          plant was ruining agriculture in their area by taking up too much
          water. The court ordered the company to find an alternative water
          source or stop work at the plant within one month. [See 2003 India:
          Cola Drinks Found Safe]
     ·    Indian troops in the northeast state of Assam November 19 moved to
          control violence between Assamese people and Hindi-speaking settlers
          from neighboring Bihar. Competition for scarce government jobs the
          previous week had triggered Bihari attacks on Assamese train
          passengers, followed by widespread looting and arson attacks on Bihari
          settlers' homes in which at least 15 people had died. An Assamese
          rebel leader November 14 ordered all Biharis out of the state. At
          least 10,000 Hindi-speaking settlers had relocated to government camps
          to escape the violence, it was reported November 27. [See 2003 India:
          News in Brief]
     ·    India September 3 agreed to purchase 66 Hawk training jets from
          Britain's BAE Systems PLC at a cost of $1.25 billion. The deal ended
          18 years of negotiations and was one of the largest defense purchases
          for India in a decade.
     ·    Indian defense officials October 10 signed an agreement with Israel
          and Russia to buy Russian-made IL-76 aircraft equipped with an
          Israeli-made Phalcon early-warning radar system. The deal, worth about
          $1 billion, would help India detect missile launches from Pakistan.
          [See 2003 India: Israeli Prime Minister Sharon Visits]
     ·    The fourth summit of Indian and European Union leaders was held
          November 29-30 in New Delhi, the capital. The two parties signed a
          $16.7 million trade agreement centered on Indian food exports. India
          also pledged to invest in the EU's satellite navigation system,
          Galileo. [See 2002 European Union: Summit Centers on Immigration,
          Expansion]
     ·    A court in the state of Gujarat November 24 convicted 15 Hindu
          defendants of murder in a case stemming from Hindu-Muslim riots in
          2002. They were the first convictions of Hindus in connection with the
          riots. All but three of the defendants November 25 were sentenced to
          life imprisonment. India's Supreme Court November 21 had halted 10
          other trials of people accused in the riots. India's National Human
          Rights Commission had advised that the trials be moved out of the
          state because of bias in its hard-line Hindu leadership. The high
          court October 9 had asked the state to appoint new prosecutors in
          riot-related trials and had appointed a monitor. [See 2003 India:
          Court Clears Deputy Prime Minister; Other Developments]
     ·    In what was billed as a victory for press freedom, the Supreme Court
          November 10 ordered a stay on an arrest order for six journalists
          issued by the state assembly of Tamil Nadu. The assembly had ordered
          the imprisonment of the editor and four other journalists at the Hindu
          , a respected newspaper based in the state, reportedly because the
          paper ran articles critical of the Tamil Nadu chief minister, P.T.
          Jayalalitha. A sixth journalist was targeted for reprinting the
          articles.
     ·    The U.S. Treasury Department had placed Dawood Ibrahim, a Mumbai crime
          lord and India's most wanted man, on its list of global terrorists and
          had frozen his U.S. assets, it was reported October 18. It accused him
          of having "common cause with Al Qaeda," a terrorist network, and of
          funding attacks by Islamic militants, including Pakistan's banned
          Lashkar-e-Taiba group, to destabilize the Indian government. Ibrahim
          was believed to be living in Pakistan. [See 2001 India, Pakistan Build
          Up Military Forces Along Border...Pakistan Arrests Militant Leader;
          Other Developments]
     ·    India's cabinet December 18 approved the death penalty for makers of
          counterfeit medicines. An estimated 20% of medicines in Indian
          pharmacies were fake. The measure required approval by Parliament.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 Facts on File, Inc.


                              56 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                Coastal Edition

Carroll, Phelps lead MDI girls past WA Raiders

SECTION: Pg. C3

LENGTH: 1341 words

DATELINE: BAR HARBOR


Sara Carroll scored 10 of her 22 total points in the third quarter to rally
Mount Desert Island to a 53-42 schoolgirl basketball victory over Washington
Academy of East Machias on Tuesday.

Megan Phelps scored 16 for the MDI Trojans while Jessica Swanson contributed
seven.

Andi Flannery scored 12 for the Raiders. Bree Nicely contributed nine.

Washington Academy (0-1) 42

Flannery 4-4-12, Jones 1-0-2, Lehman 1-0-2, Nicely 3-2-9, Bridges 2-0-4, Seeley
2-1-5, Smith 3-0-8, Hodgdon, Mitchell, Wright, Cushing

MDI (2-0) 53

Carroll 6-5-22, Phelps 7-2-16, Black, Sargent, Curtis 1-2-4, Swanson 2-3-7, Ross
2-0-4, Bryer

3-pt. goals: Carroll; Nicely, Smith 2

   Wash. Acad.  11 29 37 42
   MDI  9 26 43 53

JV: WA 36-27

Ellsworth 31, Bucksport 30

At Ellsworth, Bucksport made the first and missed the second free throw with 2.7
seconds left and Ellsworth missed a 1-and-1 with 0.7 seconds left, but the
visiting Golden Bucks couldn't get a last shot off.

Sarah Stanley scored 10 for the Eagles.

Sadie Wight scored 11 to lead Bucksport Golden Bucks.

Bucksport (0-2) 30

Wight 3-4-11, Churchill 1-0-2, Trasko, Pye 3-1-7, Blair 1-1-3, Redman 2-1-5,
Greenlaw 1-0-2, Gauvin, Daigle, Hurd

Ellsworth (1-1) 31

Stanley 4-2-10, Cooper 2-0-4, Wadman 1-0-2, Martin 1-0-3, Johnson 1-0-2, Martin
1-0-3, Johnson 1-0-2, Jackson 2-0-4, Clement 0-1-1, Stubbs 1-3-5, Domagala,
Chase

3-pt. goals: Wight; Martin

   Bucksport  7 14 21 30
   Ellsworth  7 22 26 31

Georges Valley 50, Wiscassett 35

At Wiscassett, Kennadi Grover netted 16 points to lead the Buccaneers of
Thomaston to the win.

Jill Bradbury added 11 points for Georges Valley.

Alli Johnson's 13 points paced Wiscassett.

Georges Valley (1-1) 50

Ste. Snow 1-0-2, Denault 1-0-2, Mazurek, Rich 1-3-5, Bradbury 4-3-11, Grover
6-4-16, Ames-Allen, Haskell 2-2-6, Frye 0-1-1, Veilleux 3-1-7

Wiscassett (0-2) 35

Austin 1-0-2, Johnson 5-3-13, Preble 3-0-6, McCrae 0-1-1, Connors 1-0-2, Slack
2-1-5, Footer, True 3-0-6

3-pt. goals: none

   Georges Valley 15 31 39 50
   Wiscassett 8 12 27 35

Winslow 46, MCI 23

At Winslow, the Black Raiders' tough defense set the tone for the victory over
the Huskies.

Alliyah Veilleux led Winslow with 11 points and Elizabeth Ferry scored 10.

Kylee Alton of Maine Central Institute in Pittsfield led all scorers with 12
points.

MCI (1-1) 23

Kitchin 1-0-2, Wright, Sinclair, Bennett, Glencross, Hughes 2-0-4, Houston
1-2-4, Alton 4-4-12, George, Morrell 0-1-1, Smedberg, Orchard, Cronkite

Winslow (2-0) 46

Constable 2-0-4, Weed 1-0-2, Veilleux 4-3-11, Pelletier 2-1-5, Vigue, Pomerleau
2-0-4, Risinger, Bouchard 3-0-8, Wolfe, Chenard 1-0-2, Ferry 4-2-10

3-pt. goals: Bouchard 2

   MCI 5 7 12 23
   Winslow 12 23 40 46

JV: Winslow 41-26

Nokomis 50, Mount View 26

At Newport, Kara Batchelder connected for a game-high 18 points as the host
Warriors pulled away for the win.

Nokomis outscored Mount View 27-9 in the second half to take control of the
contest.

Hayleigh Kein led the Mustangs of Thorndike with 10 points.

Mount View (0-2) 26

D. Kein 2-0-5, L. Larrabee, Murphy 2-0-4, H. Kein 5-0-10, Dyer 1-0-2, C.
Larrabee 1-0-2, A. Larrabee, Coolen, Smith, Piotti 1-1-3

Nokomis (1-1) 50

Badeen 1-1-3, Smith, Shaw 3-0-6, Reynolds 2-0-4, Stone, Dunton, Richardson
3-0-6, Batchelder 6-3-18, Perry, Tozier, Bradbury, Lyford 2-0-4, Watson 4-0-9

3-pt. goals: D. Kein

   Mount View 13 17 29 26
   Nokomis 13 23 36 50

JV: Nokomis 51-22

Medomak 52, Rockland 26

At Waldoboro, Alanna Vose fired in 17 points and Lacy Massengale tallied 12
including 2 three-pointers to pace the Panthers.

Vose and Massengale combined for 16 points in the second period for Medomak.

Hannah Plourde and Hannah Sirois each scored six points for the Tigers.

Rockland (0-2) 26

Hooper, Kinney, Curtis 0-5-5, Dennison 1-0-2, Sirois 3-0-6, Plourde 2-1-6,
MacArthur 2-1-5, Ferraiolo 1-0-2

Medomak(2-0) 52

Dyer 1-0-2, Davis, Massengale 5-0-12, Ranquist 1-0-2, Christensen 1-2-4, Conary
1-0-2, Severson, Rackliff 3-0-6, Vose 8-0-17

3-pt. goals: Plourde; Massengale 2, Vose

   Rockland  7 14 18 26
   Medomak  11 29 43 52

Orono 60, George Stevens 46

At Blue Hill, Ally Sherman had a double-double with 19 points and 18 rebounds to
lead the Orono Red Riots past George Stevens Academy.

Freshman Jillian Woodward scored 15 for the Riots.

India Frazier had 18 points and Stevie Theoharidis added 16 for the GSA Eagles.

Orono (2-0) 60

Sherman 9-1-19, Woodward 7-1-5, Keezer 1-4-7, Berry 2-1-6, Bryant 1-0-2, Fox
0-4-4, Saucier 1-0-2, Triandafillou 1-3-5

George Stevens (0-1) 46

Frazier 6-6-18, Theoharidis 7-2-16, L. Clapp 1-0-2, Gray, Kane, Elliot, Brown
1-2-4, A. Clapp 2-0-4, Brann, Vander Eb 1-0-2

3-pt. goals: Keezer, Berry

   Orono  11 33 50 60
   GSA  6 22 34 46

Camden Hills 55, Belfast 32

At Rockport, Jordan Knowlton tallied 16 points to propel Camden Hills by
Belfast.

Maddie Smeaton chipped in with 11 points for the Windjammers.

Caroline Carr scored 10 points to pace Belfast.

Belfast (0-2) 32

Curtis 1-0-2, Rae, Cross 2-2-6, Cummings 0-1-1, Rauch, Ryder 1-0-2, Carr 4-2-10,
Mansfield 1-4-7, Lapham, Nelligan 0-1-1, Doolan 1-1-3, Woodbury

Camden Hills (2-0) 55

Legage 2-0-4, Duke 2-0-4, Porter 2-4-8, Holmes 1-0-2, Richards, Johanson,
Carlsen 1-0-3, Steele, Heal 1-1-3, Smeaton 4-3-11, Knowlton 8-0-16, Buckheit
1-2-4

3-pt. goals: Mansfield; Carlsen

   Belfast  8 18 19 32
   Camden Hills  9 26 44 55

JV: CH 39-32

Hampden 41, Brewer 39

At Brewer, Ashley Danforth scored nine of her game-high 15 points in the fourth
quarter as the Broncos rallied to edge the Witches.

The Broncos made 13 of 20 free throws in the final period.

Michaela Stephenson added eight points for Hampden.

Lindsay Houp and Morgan Small led the Witches with 11 points each, and Faith
Thomas had eight.

Hampden (2-0) 41

DeRaps 2-1-6, Stephenson 2-3-8, Sherbourne 1-0-2, Danforth 4-7-15, Moore,
Lamberton, Doyon 1-0-2, Snyder 1-2-4, Robson 1-2-4

Brewer (1-1) 39

Hutchins 1-0-2, Adams 2-0-4, Thompson, Houp 3-5-11, Nickerson 1-0-3, Small
3-4-11, Thomas 2-4-8, Smith

3-pt. goals: DeRaps, Stephenson; Nickerson, Small

   Hampden 9 14 21 41
   Brewer 6 16 31 39

Boys basketball

GSA 53, Orono 49

At Orono Monday night, Elias Springer tossed in 17 points as the Eagles of Blue
Hill held off the Red Riots.

Nick Doolittle contributed 12 points for George Stevens.

Brandon Levasseur had 17 points and A.J. Coleman 16 to pace Orono.

George Stevens (1-0) 53

Elias Springer 7-0-17, Nick Doolittle 6-0-12, Crow 4-1-9, Bryant 3-0-6, Dunn
2-0-4, Lawson 1-0-3, Gale 1-0-2

Orono (0-2) 49

Brandon Levasseur 6-4-17, A.J. Coleman 7-1-16, Albert 3-0-6, Eddy 1-1-3, Johnson
1-0-2, Mower 0-1-1

3-pt. goals: Springer 3, Lawson; Levasseur, Coleman

   George Stevens 9 23 39 53
   Orono 8 23 35 49

Camden Hills 71, Belfast 43

At Belfast, Tyler McFarland poured in a game-best 28 points to propel the
Windjammers to victory over the Lions.

Joel Gabriele tossed in 20 points, including five 3-pointers, for Camden Hills
of Rockport.

Jack Davis and Dustin Howes netted 14 points each for Belfast.

Camden Hills (2-0) 71

Gabriele 7-1-20, Landwehr 1-1-4, Catell 1-0-2, Wincklhofer, Gartley 2-0-5,
Carlson1-0-2, White 2-0-4, Vlautin 1-0-2, Weferling 1-0-2, Scott, Wilson 1-0-2,
McFarland 13-2-28

Belfast (0-2) 43

Kulikowski, Sanderson, Reed 2-0-4, Peters 0-2-2, Baker, Jackson, Veal 1-0-2,
Bernosky 1-0-2, Davis 4-4-14, Mitchell, Dyer, Webster, Howes 2-10-14, Heroux
2-1-5

3-pt. goals: Gabriele 5, Landwehr, Gartley; Davis 2

   Camden Hills 19 37 56 71
   Belfast 7 22 32 43

Medomak 80, Rockland 40

At Waldoboro, Jason Vinal totaled 15 points while John Bartlett had 10 points
and 10 rebounds to lead Medomak Valley past Rockland.

Isaac Greenrose contributed 12 points and seven rebounds and Isaac Durkee 14
points for the Panthers.

Chris Nolan paced Rockland with 14 points.

Rockland (1-1) 40

Nolan 4-5-14, Hadley 3-4-10, Gufton 1-2-4, Harjula 0-1-1, Ecker 1-1-3, Meklin
4-0-8, Birch, Weldon, Nelson, Harrison

Medomak (2-0) 80

Bartlett 3-4-10, Vinal 5-2-15, I. Greenrose 3-6-12, I. Durkee 6-0-14, Ahlholm
1-0-2, Osler 3-0-7, K. Durkee 0-3-3, MacKenzie 3-1-7, A. Greenrose 4-0-8,
Judkins 0-1-1, Parmenter

3-pt. goals: Nolan; A. Greenrose, Olser, I. Durkee 2

   Rockland 7 16 30 40
   Medomak 16 34 55 80

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              57 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hawks cash in free throws, slip past Coyotes in OT

SECTION: Pg. C3

LENGTH: 1525 words

DATELINE: HERMON


Colton Gross hit two free throws with 0.7 seconds left in regulation to tie it
up and teammate T.J. Mayhew hit two free throws to take a one-point lead with
three seconds left in overtime and give the Hermon boys a 70-69 victory over Old
Town Tuesday night.

A desperation shot by Old Town at the buzzer fell short.

Taylor Gross scored 20 points, Colton Gross added 18 and Braddock Deabay had 10
for the Hermon Hawks.

Luke Bartlett led Old Town with 22 points after going 16-for-16 from the line.
Josh Boucher had 19 points and Bronson Merry added 13. Old Town hit 35 of 46
from the line.

Old Town (0-2) 69

Bartlett 3-16-22, Boucher 5-8-19, Merry 4-5-13, Clark 0-4-4, Kochis 1-0-3,
Boyington 2-0-4, Loring 1-1-3, Abbott 0-1-1

Hermon (1-1) 70

T. Gross 6-6-20, C. Gross 6-5-18, Deabay 4-0-10, Allen 4-1-9, T.J. Mayhew 1-5-7,
Adams 2-0-4, Newbury 1-0-2, Marseille, Fournier, Hamlin, C. Mayhew

3-pt. goals: Boucher, Kochis; T. Gross 2, C. Gross, Deabay 2

   Old Town  10 24 45 62 69
   Hermon  15 31 44 62 70

JV: Old Town 51-39

Winslow 38, MCI 33

At Pittsfield, the Maine Central Institute Huskies missed all five field goals
and two of eight free throws in the fourth quarter as the visiting Black Raiders
came back from a 10-point deficit to win.

Mike McCann scored 13 and Justin Murray added 11 for the Raiders.

Jacob Hunt scored nine to lead the Huskies.

Winslow (1-1) 38

Murray 3-3-11, McCann 4-5-13, Raymond, Reardon 2-0-4, Nivison 2-2-6, Wheeler
1-2-4, Audet, Price

MCI (1-1) 33

Hunt 3-1-9, Maloon 1-3-5, Bennett 0-1-1, Reazor 3-2-8, Egerton 1-0-2, Crocker
2-0-4, Chute, Cook 1-2-4, Yan

3-pt. goals: Murray 2; Hunt 2

   Winslow  6 11 21 38
   MCI  6 14 31 33

JV: MCI 45-41

GSA 53, Orono 49

At Orono Monday night, Elias Springer tossed in 17 points as the Eagles of Blue
Hill held off the Red Riots.

Nick Doolittle contributed 12 points for George Stevens.

Brandon Levasseur had 17 points and A.J. Coleman 16 to pace Orono.

George Stevens (1-0) 53

Elias Springer 7-0-17, Nick Doolittle 6-0-12, Crow 4-1-9, Bryant 3-0-6, Dunn
2-0-4, Lawson 1-0-3, Gale 1-0-2

Orono (0-2) 49

Brandon Levasseur 6-4-17, A.J. Coleman 7-1-16, Albert 3-0-6, Eddy 1-1-3, Johnson
1-0-2, Mower 0-1-1

3-pt. goals: Springer 3, Lawson; Levasseur, Coleman

   George Stevens 9 23 39 53
   Orono 8 23 35 49

Valley 47, Greenville 37

At Greenville, Chris Beane tossed in 17 points as Valley of Bingham defeated
Greenville.

Cameron Miller added 16 points for the Cavaliers.

Ricky Derboghasian had 14 points and Alex Jardine 13 for Greenville.

Valley (2-0) 47

Beane 8-1-17, Cam. Miller 8-0-16, Car. Miller 2-0-5, Wade 2-0-4, Schultz 1-0-2,
Stevens 1-0-3, Leathers, Malloy, West, Jackson

Greenville (1-1) 37

Derboghasian 6-1-14, Jardine 6-1-13, Hersey 2-0-4, Sikes 1-0-2, Stafford 1-1-4,
DiAngelo

3-pt. goals: Car. Miller, Stevens; Derboghasian, Stafford

   Valley 8 16 33 47
   Greenville 2 6 20 37

Mount View 60, Nokomis 52

At Thorndike, the Mustangs outscored the Warriors 19-9 in the fourth quarter to
pull away for the victory.

Zach Babin scored 20 points and Jason Hughes tossed in 18 for Mount View.

Chris Braley poured in a game-high 32 points, including 14 in the first quarter,
to lead Nokomis of Newport.

Nokomis (0-2) 52

Welch 5-3-15, Libby 2-0-4, Braley 11-4-32, Adams, Higgins 0-1-1, Wing, Chipman

Mount View (1-1) 60

Keller 3-1-7, Alton 2-1-5, Cochrane 3-2-8, Mehuren, Babin 10-0-20, Rednour,
Nealley, Hughes 9-0-18, Blanchard 2-2-8

3-pt. goals: Welch 2, Braley 6; Blanchard 2

   Nokomis 21 30 43 52
   Mount View  16 30 47 66


Girls basketball

Nokomis 50, Mount View 26

At Newport, Kara Batchelder connected for a game-high 18 points as the host
Warriors pulled away for the win.

Nokomis outscored Mount View 27-9 in the second half to take control of the
contest.

Hayleigh Kein led the Mustangs of Thorndike with 10 points.

Mount View (0-2) 26

D. Kein 2-0-5, L. Larrabee, Murphy 2-0-4, H. Kein 5-0-10, Dyer 1-0-2, C.
Larrabee 1-0-2, A. Larrabee, Coolen, Smith, Piotti 1-1-3

Nokomis (1-1) 50

Badeen 1-1-3, Smith, Shaw 3-0-6, Reynolds 2-0-4, Stone, Dunton, Richardson
3-0-6, Batchelder 6-3-18, Perry, Tozier, Bradbury, Lyford 2-0-4, Watson 4-0-9

3-pt. goals: D. Kein

   Mount View 13 17 29 26
   Nokomis 13 23 36 50

JV: Nokomis 51-22

Dexter 50, PVHS 20

At Howland, Sarah Murray scored nine points, including two 3-pointers, to lead
the Tigers past Penobscot Valley.

Kirstina Hallett connected for six points and Reese Leonard pulled down 14
rebounds for the Howlers.

Dexter (2-0) 50

Bell, Cr. Mountain 1-1-3, Pease 1-0-2, Ritland, Patterson 1-2-4, Ca Mountain
1-0-2, Murray 2-3-9, Gustin 2-0-4, Atwater 2-3-7, Crane 2-0-5, Lancaster 1-2-5,
Theodore 0-2-2, Adam 2-1-5,

Penobscot Valley (0-2) 20

Bean, Crawford 1-0-2, Batchelder, Rancourt, Keene, Mackin 1-0-2, Theriault
1-1-3, Hallett 1-3-6, Pelletier, Leonard 1-2-4, Vanadestine 0-1-1, Michaud,
Leveille 1-0-2

3-pt. goals: Murray 2, Crane, Lancaster; Hallett

   Dexter  8 22 31 50
   PVHS  2 5 6 20

Penquis 48, Schenck 39

At Milo, Kristyn Chapman netted 14 points as host Penquis defeated Schenck of
East Millinocket.

Shelby Fowles contributed 11 points for the Patriots.

Kristina Jamo and Sonja Brown had eight points apiece for the Wolverines.

Schenck (1-1) 39

Nicholson 3-0-7, Michaud, Thompson 1-2-4, Lowell 2-1-7, Powers, Jamo 4-0-8,
Deloge, DiCentes 1-3-5, Brown 4-0-8

Penquis (1-1) 48

Chapman 6-1-14, Fowles 4-2-11, Larson 3-0-6, Zambrano 2-0-4, C. Bess 2-1-5,
Weston 1-2-4, H. Bess 2-0-4

3-pt. goals: Lowell 2, Nicholson; Chapman, Fowles

   Schenck 4 16 25 39
   Penquis 9 20 31 48

JV: Schenck 39-19

Winslow 46, MCI 23

At Winslow, the Black Raiders' tough defense set the tone for the victory over
the Huskies.

Alliyah Veilleux led Winslow with 11 points and Elizabeth Ferry scored 10.

Kylee Alton of Maine Central Institute in Pittsfield led all scorers with 12
points.

MCI (1-1) 23

Kitchin 1-0-2, Wright, Sinclair, Bennett, Glencross, Hughes 2-0-4, Houston
1-2-4, Alton 4-4-12, George, Morrell 0-1-1, Smedberg, Orchard, Cronkite

Winslow (2-0) 46

Constable 2-0-4, Weed 1-0-2, Veilleux 4-3-11, Pelletier 2-1-5, Vigue, Pomerleau
2-0-4, Risinger, Bouchard 3-0-8, Wolfe, Chenard 1-0-2, Ferry 4-2-10

3-pt. goals: Bouchard 2

   MCI 5 7 12 23
   Winslow 12 23 40 46

JV: Winslow 41-26

Orono 60, George Stevens 46

At Blue Hill, Ally Sherman had a double-double with 19 points and 18 rebounds to
lead the Orono Red Riots past George Stevens Academy.

Freshman Jillian Woodward scored 15 for the Riots.

India Frazier had 18 points and Stevie Theoharidis added 16 for the GSA Eagles.

Orono (2-0) 60

Sherman 9-1-19, Woodward 7-1-5, Keezer 1-4-7, Berry 2-1-6, Bryant 1-0-2, Fox
0-4-4, Saucier 1-0-2, Triandafillou 1-3-5

George Stevens (0-1) 46

Frazier 6-6-18, Theoharidis 7-2-16, L. Clapp 1-0-2, Gray, Kane, Elliot, Brown
1-2-4, A. Clapp 2-0-4, Brann, Vander Eb 1-0-2

3-pt. goals: Keezer, Berry

   Orono  11 33 50 60
   GSA  6 22 34 46

Greenville 38, Valley 25

At Greenville, Saige Weeks had 12 points and 15 rebounds to lead the Greenville
Lakers past Valley of Bingham.

McKenna Peat scored 10 and Gretel Bretton grabbed 10 rebounds for the Lakers.

Jocelyn Lawyerson led the way for the Cavaliers with 15 points.

Valley (0-1) 25

Lawyerson 6-0-15, Rich, Vincent 1-0-2, Fortin 1-0-2, Hovey, Turgeon, Hines
2-0-4, Jackson, Hackley, Leathers, McQuilkin 1-0-2, Schultz

Greenville (2-0) 38

A. Peat 5-0-10, Weeks 4-4-12, Bretton 2-0-4, C. Peat 3-0-6, Munroe, Soule,
Lavigne, Theriault, 1-0-2, Sherman, Genoa, Gilbert 2-0-4, Howard

3-pt. goals: Lawyerson 3

   Valley  0 6 13 25
   Greenville  10 23 32 38

Central 53, Lee 33

At Corinth, Hannah Pray scored a game-high 30 points to pace the Central Red
Devils by Lee Academy.

Roberta Trafton grabbed 12 rebounds and Max McHugh made six steals for Central.

Alaina Hamilton scored 12 points and Katelyn Mallett added 10 for the Pandas.

Lee (0-2) 33

Hersom, Mallett 4-2-10, Hamilton 5-2-12, Thornton 1-2-4, Grass 1-0-2, Cowan
1-1-3, Gordon, Kerr 1-0-2, Rideout, Dill, Thomas

Central (2-0) 53

Pray 13-3-30, Speed 0-1-1, McHugh 4-0-8, Brownell, Day 1-0-2, K. Blanchard,
Pineo, S. Blanchard 1-0-2, Trafton 2-0-4, Portmann 2-0-4, Hardy 1-0-2

3-pt. goals: Pray

   Lee  9 18 24 33
   Central  8 24 38 53

JV: Central 60-31

Hampden 41, Brewer 39

At Brewer, Ashley Danforth scored nine of her game-high 15 points in the fourth
quarter as the Broncos rallied to edge the Witches.

The Broncos made 13 of 20 free throws in the final period.

Michaela Stephenson added eight points for Hampden.

Lindsay Houp and Morgan Small led the Witches with 11 points each, and Faith
Thomas had eight.

Hampden (2-0) 41

DeRaps 2-1-6, Stephenson 2-3-8, Sherbourne 1-0-2, Danforth 4-7-15, Moore,
Lamberton, Doyon 1-0-2, Snyder 1-2-4, Robson 1-2-4

Brewer (1-1) 39

Hutchins 1-0-2, Adams 2-0-4, Thompson, Houp 3-5-11, Nickerson 1-0-3, Small
3-4-11, Thomas 2-4-8, Smith

3-pt. goals: DeRaps, Stephenson; Nickerson, Small

   Hampden 9 14 21 41
   Brewer 6 16 31 39

Hockey

Orono 4, John Bapst 0

At Sawyer Arena in Bangor, Brewster Cherkis scored two goals to pace the Orono
Red Riots in a win over John Bapst of Bangor.

Jake Doing had a goal and an assist for the 1-0 Red Riots. Trevor Estes scored
the other goal and Tannar Francis had an assist. Michael Brown saved all 37
shots for the shutout.

Derek Duff made 20 saves on 24 shots for the 0-2 Crusaders.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              58 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                              May 20, 2002 Monday

Hindus take revenge after train fire, kill 60 Muslims CELIA W. DUGGER

LENGTH: 1157 words


NEW DELHI, India Hindu mobs killed more than 60 people Thursday, burning Muslims
alive in their homes and setting fire to Muslim-owned restaurants, shops, cars
and apartments.

The religious violence, the most serious India has experienced in years, was in
retaliation for a Muslim mob's attack Wednesday on a trainload of Hindu
fundamentalists in which 58 people were burned to death in a car. Most were
women and children.

Those on the train had been returning from a mission to build a temple in
Ayodhya, on the site of a mosque whose destruction by fervent Hindus in 1992 set
off riots across India that killed more than 1,000.

The central government sent 1,000 paramilitary troops Thursday to the scene of
the rioting, Ahmadabad, a city of 5 million in Gujarat State, which has India's
worst record of Hindu-Muslim violence.

The government plans to send 1,000 soldiers by today. Hindu nationalists have
called for a nationwide strike, bringing the total armed forces there to about
11,000, state officials said.

Curfews were declared in 30 villages, towns and cities across Gujarat, which has
a population of 51 million. Hundreds of people were arrested. Half a dozen were
shot and killed by police officers.

"The police opened fire on many occasions to stop rioters from looting and
killing people,' said Gujarat's home secretary, Nityandandam.

But many witnesses said the police stood by and watched as Muslims and their
homes, cars and businesses were attacked.

The city's police commissioner, P.C. Pande, acknowledged Thursday night that his
men "are equally influenced by the overall general sentiment.'

A teacher described in a telephone interview how he and a few other residents of
his small apartment complex all Muslims held off a mob of 500 Hindus by
brandishing two small revolvers.

But when one of the residents was shot in the arm by someone in the crowd, all
the residents fled to one apartment and locked themselves in.

"The police would drive by knowing the crowd was pelting us with stones, and
they did not even stop to disperse the crowd,' the teacher said.

The mob burned the cars and scooters in the parking lot, as well as the
teacher's apartment. His furniture was charred and smoldering when he got home.
He begged that his name not be used, saying, "I would be killed tomorrow.'

In one particularly horrific series of incidents in a suburb of Ahmadabad, young
men set fire to a number of houses, immolating 20 men, women and children, state
and city officials said.

Pande said the police were at the scene at the time and opened fire, killing two
men.

"But during this battle with police, the houses were torched,' he said.

The police officers were in front of the houses, while the mob entered through
the back, he said.

"It's certainly no defense' of the police's inability to protect the families in
their homes, he said.

Secretary Nityandandam, who uses one name, insisted the police had done the best
they could.

"The police were there and tried to prevent it,' he said. "They were
outnumbered.'

Leaders of the opposition Congress Party in New Delhi sharply criticized the
government for not sending the army quickly on Wednesday after the carnage at
the train station, in Godhra, especially given the state's history of ethnic
riots.

India's home minister, L.K. Advani, said in an interview Thursday evening that
Gujarat's chief minister had asked for the army reinforcements that morning and
that the government had had to hold a cabinet meeting Thursday evening before
his request could be approved.

Advani said he had dispatched paramilitary forces on Wednesday.

"Whatever I could spare, I sent,' he said, predicting the violence would be
brought under control "in a couple of days.'

The issue that set off the conflagration was the drive by the World Hindu
Council to begin building a temple to Ram, an incarnation of the god Vishnu, on
the site of the 16th-century mosque in Ayodhya that was torn down by militant
Hindus.

Hindus agitating to build the temple were moving by train toward Ayodhya from
Gujarat, a bastion of Hindu nationalism and the last major state in India that
is ruled by the nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. Ayodhya is in Uttar Pradesh,
a state in north-central India.

On train after train over the past week, Hindus had passed through a poor,
densely populated Muslim neighborhood in Godhra, often shouting slogans about
building a temple, slogans the Muslims found provocative, local police officials
said.

It was in Godhra that Muslims attacked one of these trains on Wednesday and set
the deadly fire. Among the dozens arrested were two Muslim members of the
municipal council. Three more Muslim council members were being sought, said
Raju Bhargava, district superintendent of police in Godhra.

Witnesses have told the police that the politicians incited the crowd gathered
at the station to violence.

"They seem to have been the prime movers behind the incident,' Bhargava said.

Advani, who led the movement for a Ram temple a decade ago and is seen as the
most hardline leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, is now the second-most
powerful elected official in India and responsible for law and order.

On Wednesday, he told the World Hindu Council that it must drop plans to build
the temple in defiance of court orders or he would stop them, a position that
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee also took.

But the council, in a rage about the killing of its followers on the train,
defiantly refused Thursday to comply unless Hindu religious leaders sanctioned
the court order.

Even as authorities closed off roads to Ayodhya, fearing riots there, Omkar
Bhave, a council official, said at a news conference that those who want to help
build the temple, whose construction is planned for March 15, should all head
for Ayodhya.

"If arrested in between, please resume the journey again when you are released,'
he said.

Bhave bitterly criticized the prime minister and the home minister for failing
to find a way to get the temple built or even to negotiate with Muslim groups
that want a mosque on the site.

He said it would be a good thing if the prime minister resigned.

"This is criminal negligence,' he said.

The temple movement threatens to contribute to the spread of Hindu-Muslim riots
as the government is confronting Pakistan with a huge military buildup along the
border.

Many in the opposition have called on the government to arrest the Hindu
council's leaders as threats to law and order.

But the Bharatiya Janata Party has a family relationship with the council and
instead chose to seek mediation from the "mother' of the family, the National
Volunteers Association, known by its Hindi acronym, RSS.

Thursday, after the prime minister met with leaders of the association, both
sides agreed that the RSS would try to find a compromise.

"I hope we'll be able to sort out that problem,' Advani said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc.


                              60 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              April 8, 2013 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Controversial Hindu nationalist may be next India PM

BYLINE: Jonathan Manthorpe, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Pg. C8

LENGTH: 826 words


Indian Hindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the man once cast as the "Hero of Hate"
and "a killer of Muslims," is well on the way to being the main challenger to
the country's dynastic natural party of power, the Congress Party, in next
year's elections.

Modi, 62, in his fourth term as chief minister (premier) of Gujarat state, was
recently appointed to the 12-member top decision-making committee of the Hindu
nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), India's main opposition movement.

The appointment positions Modi, one of the most divisive and controversial
figures in Indian politics, to become the front-runner in next year's elections
when the Congress Party is likely to be led its latest offspring of the Gandhi
family, Rahul Gandhi.

Modi, however, continues to be dogged by allegations about his role in the 2002
riots in his Gujarat state in western India.

The riots started after a train carrying Hindu pilgrims was attacked by a Muslim
mob. The train burned and about 60 Hindus died.

In retaliation Hindus attacked Muslim communities and in riots lasting several
days over 1,000 people were killed, 790 of them Muslims.

Modi has been accused of at best failing to deploy the police and army to end
the riots. At worst he has been accused of succumbing to his Hindu nationalist
sentiments and stirring up the anti-Muslim mobs. Several judicial inquiries,
including one by India's Supreme Court, have found no evidence on which Modi
could be charged.

Even so, Modi's tainted reputation led the United States in 2005 to revoke a
visa already granted to him. Soon after the 2002 riots the United Kingdom
government refused to have any dealings with Modi as did the European Union.

But those sanctions are being withdrawn as Modi emerges as a national political
figure and his management of the Gujarat economy wins applause from both Indian
and international business people. In 2012 both the British and the EU withdrew
their boycotts and while the American visa ban is still in place, several
Republican lawmakers are mounting a lobby to allow Modi entry to the U.S.

Under Modi's management Gujarat has retained and extended its reputation as one
of the freest economies with the most functional administrations in India.

Modi is also notable in Indian politics for being known as a man of intense
personal probity and honesty who runs one of the few corruption-free
jurisdictions in the country.

Modi won his fourth term as Chief Minister of the BJP government of Gujarat last
year, but since then his ambitions for national leadership have been clear.

The BJP is, since independence in 1947, the only party other than Congress to
have formed a government that ran a full term.

That 1999-2004 BJP administration quelled many fears it would be a blatantly
triumphalist Hindu government intent on suppressing India's 177 million Muslims,
the world's third largest community after Indonesia and Pakistan.

While some BJP leaders fear picking Modi as their candidate for prime minister
will lose them support among Muslim voters and smaller parties whose cooperation
may be needed to form a government, others see him as natural leadership
material.

Modi himself has been travelling the country and making speeches in which he
stresses his success as an economic manager, pointing to Gujarat's financial
surpluses while New Delhi is mired in deficits, and lays emphasis on India's
economic potential.

This appears to be going down well with an electorate that feels the current
Congress Party government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has lost its verve,
despite Singh's impressive record when finance minister in the 1990s.

Even so, Modi's past may yet come back to haunt him and persuade enough BJP
leaders that he would be a burden rather than an asset as the party's flag
carrier in the next election.

There remains a feeling that the full story of the Gujarat riots has not been
told. Modi has benefited from the lack of evidence, but his past, and especially
his membership since childhood of the militant Hindu paramilitary organization
Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), National Patriotic Organization in English,
is well known.

The RSS was founded in 1925 to oppose British rule and also Muslim separatism.

It was a former RSS member who shot and killed the hero of the Indian
independence movement, Mohandas "Mahatma" Gandhi in 1948.

It was the RSS that led the mobs which demolished the Babri Mosque in Ayodhya in
1992, setting off some of modern India's worst sectarian violence.

The mosque was reputed to have been built on a sacred Hindu site, the birth
place of Lord Rama, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.

The train attacked in February 2002 at Godhra in Gujarat that sparked the
anti-Muslim riots was carrying Hindu pilgrims returning from Ayodhya.

Amnesty International has charged that during the riots RSS members circulated
printouts of computerized lists, apparently of government origin, identifying
Muslim homes and businesses.

jmanthorpe@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ajit Solanki, The Associated Press; Narendra Modi, a deeply divisive
figure in Indian politics, is moving up the ranks of the main opposition
movement.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Buffalo News (New York)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Finding grace

BYLINE: By Susan Estrich - Creators Syndicate

SECTION: VIEWPOINTS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 603 words


I opened the garage to back my car out on Saturday morning and silently cursed
at the car blocking part of my driveway, making a difficult task so much harder.
I eased out a foot or two and saw what had just happened in front of my house. A
bicyclist was down on the pavement, alive but not moving, flat on his back. The
man who hit him had pulled over (halfway into my driveway) and was standing
there, undone by his utter misery and helplessness. The paramedics were just
pulling up.

It is a busy street, a five-lane road up the Pacific on which cyclists pedal
fast and cars drive faster. If you're pulling over, you pull into the bike lane,
and if you judge it just a little bit wrong, this is what happens.

I was on my way to get a manicure. Lucky me. But I was feeling lonely and
overwhelmed, facing a weekend of work, a weekend with my children away at
school, my children whom I love more than life, whom I depended on for so many
years to give me life. I am so proud of them. I am blessed. I am silly and
lonely and feeling sorry for myself.

I got out of the car, and I saw the poor cyclist and the poor man. And there but
for the grace of God go I.

Lucky me. Silly sad me. Stupid me. Living in a rental house by the ocean, about
to move back to my beautiful home. Life staring me in the face, news of this or
that person I know sick or struggling stoking my fears. Grace staring me in the
face, blessing me.

I am reading, devouring, Anne Lamott's newest book; it's about the first year of
her grandson's life. She is one of my favorite writers because of the beauty of
her prose and, even more, her unwashed honesty. She has found God and faith and
a church she loves.

Lucky her. But she is still wracked with anxiety and has trouble letting go;
some days she is devoured by her flaws and fights sadness and the rest. She has
loved her son so, held on to him so, and now that he is a father, she must let
go even more.

As she finds such joy in her grandson, she struggles not to hold on too tight,
not to impose her will and try to solve every problem. She struggles to let go
and rails at herself. She touches my soul. We flawed humans, who want to spare
our children the pain that is life and can't, must let them go and face our own
pain and loss and sadness and the rest.

I read my book while the young man paints my nails pink. Lucky me, with my good
job and my nice house and my wonderful children. Lucky me, who does not look
around hoping more customers will come in, turning the other cheek, as I see
Kenny doing, at the ones who treat these hardworking men and women like objects.
Lucky me, with two beautiful children in college, making their way. Lucky me,
selfish me, wallowing in my fortune.

Lamott is in India. She is surrounded by poverty and beggars she must shoo away
because they don't get to keep the money anyway (it goes to a pimp) and because
if she gives to one (a mistake made once), she starts a riot. India is a land of
beauty and of life, where mothers cremate their children and children their
mothers, all younger than me, than mine, where bodies float down the Ganges and
families live on the street. Lucky me, with my house and my supermarket and my
car and my clean linens and good doctors.

By the time I get home, with my perfect pink nails, the cyclist is gone, and the
man is gone, and the car and the fire department are gone. Another car is there,
parked a few inches back. I watch the cyclists, I drive slowly, I am thankful
when I park.

All of the signs of the tragedy of an hour ago are gone. But I try to hold them
in my heart and follow the road they point out for me. To grace.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Commentary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 The Buffalo News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Pakistan Today

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

â[#x20ac][#xfffd]Two-facedâ[#x20ac][TM] Qadri was all praise for Indian PM, CM
during 2012 Gujarat visit

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: New York



 Islamabad:A day after Dr Tahirul Qadri alleged that Indian spies were working
in Sharifs' factories and that Nawaz Sharif did not say anything on the arrest
of Indian spy Kulbhushan Jhadav, it emerged that the Pakistan Awami Tehreek
(PAT) chief had once praised Indian Prime Minister Naredra Modi.



 Indian media had reported that Tahirul Qadri on his first visit to Gujarat in
2012 thanked the chief minister Narendra Modi for the security arrangements
provided to him. Qadri, known for his strong views against terrorism and
extremism, however, refused to comment on 2002 communal riots, the India media
had reported.

 "It is my first visit to Gujarat and special Z-plus security arrangements have
been made by the state. I thank the CM for this," he said while referring to
Modi's hospitality.

 On repeated questions about the 2002 communal riots, Qadri insisted he did not
come to Gujarat to speak about specific incidents, but termed them as
unfortunate.

 At the time, Qadri had thanked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi for
providing him with security but the PAT leader did not say anything on the 2002
anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat.

 Qadri had visited Indian state of Gujarat in 2012 for the inauguration of India
headquarters of Minhajul Quran International in Karjan. He was provided with
full security during his visit for which he thanked former Gujarat chief
minister and incumbent Indian PM Narendra Modi.

 Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) leader Talal Chaudhry said that Qadri was
a two-faced person, adding that he spoke of Pakistan when he possessed a
Canadian nationality. He further said that Qadri mostly received funds from
India, adding that the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) would soon
provide details regarding his Indian funding.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Today's Muslim Peshawar

                             May 14, 2014 Wednesday

Modi, Gujarat riots and beyond

LENGTH: 1047  words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR


THE media is lining up to interview the much anticipated next prime minister of
India, the BJP nominee for the post, Narendra Modi. Since the number game will
remain uncertain till the election results are announced on the evening of May
16, he has been extra careful in taking positions on crucial issues.

The questions about which Modi has been the most evasive are related to his role
in the Gujarat's Hindu-Muslim riots of 2002. He was the chief minister of the
state at that time and has been in the same position since 2001, winning four
elections in a row. In his successive interviews during the current election
campaign, he has not given in to the calls to apologise over the worse communal
killings in India's recent past.

The courts in India have not been able to pin him down on any count of
complicity in the riots. This however does not exonerate him in the popular
imagination and this unforgiving position is not exclusive to common Indian
Muslims alone.

"I have no doubt about the role he played in inciting violence and then letting
the situation worsen to the point that communities took it to the streets. His
was not the role of a hapless onlooker, for sure," says Zahir Janmohamed in an
interview with media in Ahmadabad recently.

Zahir is an Indian-American or to be more specific a Gujarati-American. His
grandparents had migrated to Tanzania in 1920s and set up a business in the
African country. His parents were born there. At the time of Partition the rest
of his Kacchi-Khoja family migrated from Gujarat to Karachi. He is the third
generation of this migrant family that is raised in US. As a young man, curious
about his family roots he flew to India to reconnect with his past at the most
unfortunate of the times. He landed in February 2002 just days before the riots
broke out.

"Since I have no relatives here, I was staying with a Hindu friend family," says
Zahir adding, "that gave me ample opportunity to see it from both sides." He
believes that Modi's gestures and actions during and after the incident were
catalytic, if not the main igniter, of the majority's furore.

The communal riots in Gujarat had broken out when a train carrying back Hindu
pilgrims from the controversial Ram Mandir - Babri Mosque site in Ayodhya was
burnt down by arsonists at Godhra town, killing 59 including 40 children on the
morning of Feb 27, 2002. "On the same evening Modi blamed it on 'terrorists' and
called it a pre-planned act. That was as good as pointing finger towards
Muslims," says Zahir adding that 9/11 had happened just months ago and
bracketing Muslims with terrorism was the dominant media trend. "Why were the
dead bodies of Godhra victims were flown into Ahmadabad, from a distance of 300
kilometres and put on display," he raised another grave question.

Gujarat's capital, Ahmadabad was the worst hit by the riots that spread all over
the state in a matter of days. Various estimates put the total death toll
between one to two thousands. Muslims of Ahmadabad had to leave their homes and
take refuge in camps set up in the city by the community. "Though he went to
Godhra, he never visited a camp," Zahir charged.

"What was even more painful for me was that the society stood sharply divided.
There was little empathy on the other side of the divide. Since I have large
circle of Hindu friends, I would spend the day volunteering in refugee camps and
then would go attend a marriage ceremony with my hosts and friends in the
evening," laments Zahir.

Deeply scarred by the traumatic experience, Zahir went back to US late in 2002.
He came back to the city nine years later to study communalism in the
perspective of 2002 riots in more detail and is writing a book on the subject.
"Ghettoisation of Muslims is one thing that has redrawn the map of this
metropolis," he said briefing me about the trends in residential preferences of
Muslims by marking circles and lines on the map of Ahmadabad.

"This has turned Juhapura into a Muslim majority area. The minority is the
majority here. That's the only way they could feel riot-safe now," he says. "A
whole generation is being brought up in here, interacting mainly internally.
They cower when they go out. They have become more conservative in their
approach towards faith and society," he says.

Zahir has been intermittently living in Juhapura since his return in 2011. The
Muslim ghetto has an estimated population of 200,000. "The ghetto and the
community are stereotyped and demonised at large scale," says Zahir quoting
anecdotes of the rickshaw drivers advising him to not to go to the 'dangerous
dungeon' of a place, Juahapura. "They are aghast when I tell them in my American
accent that I live there."

The spectre of communalism has been instrumental in making the majority
internalise a perceived threat of dominance by a minority. Zahir compared the
situation with one in the West where white majorities are apprehensive of a
'takeover' by its coloured minorities. "The point of grudge here is however not
Muslims' economic condition or educational qualification but the misplaced
concept that they 'run child making factories' and will ultimately outnumber
them," he laughed elaborating that Muslims in Gujarat are around 9 per cent
while the over 80 per cent majority is of Hindus.

Zahir refused many publishers who wanted to market his upcoming book before the
current elections that are marked by the so-called 'Modi wave'. "Modi did not
invent communalism. There is no doubt that he has been able to put it to
personal political use but they were there in Gujarat, and in India, since at
least decades," says Zahir explaining further, "it is not right to see the whole
phenomenon in the shadow of one personality and reduce it to whether he was
responsible or not or to the question that whether he qualifies to be prime
minister or not on this count. They won't go away if he does not become the
prime minister."

Zahir may be right in his refusal to see communalism in India and the 2002
Gujarat riots from the eyeholes in the Modi mask, the most popular of his
election campaign gimmicks. But days before the announcement of election results
in one of the most important developing countries, the bigger question remains
unanswered - is the world ready to see Modi without his communal past?

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

Seven Arrested After College Publishes Critique of Modi

BYLINE: SUHASINI RAJ

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 511 words



HIGHLIGHT: Six students and a college principal were arrested at a Kerala
college after a student-run magazine published a negative article on Prime
Minister Narendra Modi.


A college magazine that published an implied, strident critique of Narendra
Modi, the newly elected prime minister, incited enough ill will that six
students on the magazine's editorial staff were arrested Wednesday and accused
of printing defamatory material and of provocation with the intent of causing
riots, among other crimes.

The principal of the college, which is the Government Polytechnic College at
Kunnamkulam in the district of Thrissur, Kerala, was also arrested Thursday. All
seven from the college have been released on bail.

The magazine depicted Mr. Modi under the headline, "Negative Faces," alongside a
grave-looking Adolf Hitler, Osama bin Laden and the smiling visage of the former
United States president George W. Bush.

Members of a youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party found an issue of the
magazine after some students at the college complained about it. The group's
president immediately called the local police, who filed charges against the
editorial staff of the magazine and the college principal.

The Students' Federation of India, an arm of the Communist Party of India, has a
strong presence at the college, according to one of the group's leaders reached
by telephone and the vice president of the B.J.P. youth wing. The Communist
Party of India has intermittently been in charge of the state government in
Kerala as well.

The incident comes after a series of riots in Pune, in the western state of
Maharashtra, after derogatory images of the deceased leader of a right-wing
party there were shared on social media.  One Muslim man was said to have been
killed in the riots by members of a right-wing Hindu group.

Two hundred copies of the controversial issue of the magazine had been
distributed, and police officers confiscated the rest of the 400 copies,
according to the local police.

"With the intention of maligning the image of our honorable prime minister, Mr.
Modi, the left-supported group of students and college published his photograph
alongside high-profile terrorists," said K.K. Aneesh Kumar, the vice president
of the B.J.P.-affiliate student group. "It was a horrible, wrong and criminal
act."

"The main issue is why should the local Communist Party be guiding what should
be published in a government-funded college?" he said.  "This is incitement to
violence."

Praveen Chanaserry Sivadasan, a 20-year-old engineering student and the
magazine's editor, who belongs to the Students' Federation of India, was
released on bail Wednesday and did not apologize for the issue.

"Modi is a negative face. He oversaw the killing of so many in the 2002 riots,"
he said, referring to the Gujarat riots, in which nearly 1,000 people, mostly
Muslims, were killed while Mr. Modi was chief minister of the state.

Mr. Modi has retained a lasting stigma that he has struggled to shake off,
especially with the country's liberals.  In 2012, a Supreme Court investigative
team declined to bring charges against Mr. Modi, saying there was not enough
evidence.

"We should have the right to criticize our political leaders," Mr. Sivadasan
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bangkok Post

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Outrage over Modi's 'puppy' line

LENGTH: 471  words


Hindu hardliner Narendra Modi, seen as the key opposition challenger in India's
2014 elections, has said he meant no offence when he compared victims of
anti-Muslim violence to puppies run over by a car.

In an interview published on Friday with an international news agency, Modi
spoke openly for the first time about 2002 anti-Muslim riots in western Gujarat
state in which Hindu mobs killed more than 1,000 Muslims.

The controversial Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, who is Gujarat's chief
minister and was in power during the riots, said he felt "sad" over the violence
- just the way one would feel "bad" when a car runs over a puppy.

The remark to Reuters was splashed on Indian newspaper front pages on Saturday
and trended on Twitter.

" 'Hindu nationalist' Modi kicks up storm with puppy remark," said a Times of
India headline.

Modi tried to counter the criticism by tweeting late Friday: "In our culture
every form of life (including puppies) is valued and worshipped." But critics
were not appeased.

"His comment is very bad, dangerous and humiliating," said Kamal Farooqi, a
senior leader of the regional Samajwadi Party, which draws support from Muslims
in India's most populous state of Uttar Pradesh.

"What is he really saying? Are Muslims less than puppies?" asked Farooqi.

Modi said he would have felt "guilty" over the violence "if I did something
wrong" but if "someone else is driving a car and we're sitting behind, even then
if a puppy comes under the wheel, will it be painful or not? Of course it is.

"If I'm a chief minister or not, I'm a human being. If something bad happens
anywhere, it is natural to be sad," said Modi, without explaining why he was not
"at the wheel" during the riots as chief minister.

Ruling Congress party general secretary Ajay Maken said Modi should apologise to
the country "for the kind of words and analogy he has used".

The regional Janata Dal (United) party called Modi "a very dangerous person".

National Law Minister Kapil Sibal also stepped into the row, demanding to know,
"What was [Modi] doing in the back seat?" when the riots occurred.

Modi, whose state has thrived economically under his leadership, is expected to
be tapped as candidate for prime minister if the BJP wins the elections to be
held by May 2014.

Modi paints himself as a pro-business reformist who can revive the fortunes of
the world's largest democracy. But he remains a divisive figure nationally after
being accused of doing nothing to stop religious riots in his state.

On July 10, Modi tweeted "Happy Ramzan. May this holy month bring joy, peace &
prosperity in our lives."

While he has never been convicted of any offence, one of his former ministers
was jailed last year for orchestrating some of the violence and India's top
court once compared him to Nero, the emperor who fiddled while Rome burned.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Lee warns of violence after riot in 'Little India'

LENGTH: 624  words


Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said on Monday that those responsible for
Singapore's first riot in four decades would face "the full force of the law"
after about 400 people were embroiled in violence in its Little India district.

"Whatever events may have sparked the rioting, there is no excuse for such
violent, destructive, and criminal behaviour," Lee wrote on his Facebook page.
"We will spare no effort to identify the culprits and deal with them." He urged
Singaporeans to "stay calm."

This photograph made available by The New Paper on Dec 9, 2013 shows a police
car (L) flipped on it side on fire after rioters went on a rampage in
Singapore's Little India district late on Dec 8. (AFP photo)

Singapore's police force arrested 27 people after the riot, which broke out in
the Little India district after a traffic accident. Police officers were injured
and vehicles damaged, with about 300 police were deployed to contain the
situation, Commissioner of Police Ng Joo Hee said at a briefing last night. More
arrests will be made, Ng said.

Large-scale demonstrations have been almost unknown in Singapore since race
riots in 1964 killed 36 people and contributed to the island's ouster from the
federation with Malaysia. Singapore and Malaysia were united from 1963 to 1965.
Clashes between the Chinese and Malay communities culminated in race riots in
1969 in Malaysia, which spilled briefly into Singapore. After the violence of
the 1960s the Singapore government imposed curbs on public assembly.

"What eventually transpired in terms of a riot -- that's a new thing, that's
definitely a watershed of a kind," Bilveer Singh, an associate professor at
National University of Singapore's department of political science, said by
phone. "I don't think we have seen this for decades now."

'Spontaneous act'

The violence began after a bus ran over and killed a 33-year-old Indian worker,
Deputy Commissioner of Police T Raja Kumar said at Sunday night's briefing.

Eighteen people, including four Singapore Civil Defence Force officers, were
taken to hospital for treatment, with 10 police officers hurt, Kumar said. Nine
SCDF vehicles were damaged in the riot, with five vehicles burnt, including
three police cars, the SCDF said in a posting on its Facebook page.

"In perspective, this is a spontaneous act. It is not something politically
motivated. At a broad, strategic level, it is something new after a long time,"
Singh from NUS said. The government would need to act sternly against those who
rioted, he said. "The future insecurities of Singapore are one, internal, two,
important. Singaporeans won't tolerate this because Singaporeans are becoming
very nationalistic."

Singapore is persisting with a four-year campaign to reduce its reliance on
foreign workers, after years of open immigration policy led to voter discontent
over increased competition for housing, jobs and education. The move has led to
a labour shortage and pushed up wages, prompting some companies to seek cheaper
locations.

Riot police stand guard as a vehicle goes up in flames during the riot
Singapore's Little India on Dec 8, 2013. (AP photo)

Bus strike

In November last year, Singapore authorities charged four Chinese nationals over
their involvement in an illegal strike that led to a disruption in some bus
services, an unusual public display of labor discord. Singapore is currently
hosting ministers from 12 countries such as the United States and Australia for
the final round of talks this year on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade
accord.

The government "will not tolerate" such acts, deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee
Hean said at a briefing last night on the riot. Those involved will be dealt
with "firmly, fairly, strictly, according to the law," said Teo.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Delhi Edition

Toughest test,admits Dhoni

BYLINE: Bobilli Vijay Kumar TNN

SECTION: TIMES SPORT

LENGTH: 908 words


Birmingham: Captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni only grudgingly conceded that this was
the toughest Test ahead of him and his team.On the eve of the must-win match
here at Edgbaston,he said there are no easy games in international
cricket."Every match we play is difficult.Every place we go presents a different
set of problems.When we play at home,there is pressure to win;when we play,there
is pressure to prove ourselves," he explained."But yes,given the injuries,the
conditions you can say that is one of our toughest matches.New Zealand,West
Indies,South Africa,Australia,we have faced tough moments at all these places,"
he argued."But England are a top side and you always knew that it was going to
be tough." Dhoni,who realizes that India will lose their number one ranking if
they lost one more Test here,is not losing much sleep over that."We don't want
to think too much about that.We just look at each match and try to win it," he
said."We know that if we are consistent,if we win matches we can regain that
spot again," he added.He,however,exuded confidence when it came to pulling off a
win,if not to leveling the series."We were in strong positions in the first two
Tests.But we still ended up losing.We need to first try and reach those
positions in this crucial Test match too."Then,we have to take it forward and
take advantage of them," he said."We have struggled after 40-45 overs and we
need to look into that too," he added,referring to the way England fought back
in both previous Tests with their lower order.Dhoni bravely claimed that they
would give in with the best XI,when asked if there was a possibility that four
seamers would play."We will pick the team according to the track.The XI who we
think can help us win." On the edge at Edgbaston In The Backdrop Of Riots,India
Hope To Save Number 1 Ranking Birmingham: As violence and rioting came to town,a
new dimension was added to India's desperate attempt to hang on to the World
No.1 ranking: fear.Late on Monday night,as this part of the world
slept,juveniles went on the rampage;by the morning 100 were arrested and anxiety
had overtaken the streets."All the members of the Indian team are safe and
accounted for," an official release declared."The management is keeping a close
watch on the situation," it added.Yes,the players are safe,and thankfully
too.But are they safe on the field?

Is their reputation as the world's best team on the line? Can they come out of
this series unscathed ? As the third Test begins here at Edgbaston on
Wednesday,there is mainly trepidation in the ranks.India know history is against
them: they have lost four out of their five Tests here,the other one being a
draw.Worse,they have already slipped from winning positions in the first two
Tests to look in disarray now;their main bowling hope,Zaheer Khan,has finally
been ruled out.Harbhajan Singh and Yuvraj Singh have also been consigned to the
injured bay,giving the team a desolate look.Virender Sehwag is the only sliver
of hope: the maverick opener has returned from a long lay-off and brings a sense
of audacity along with him.His batting mates know that he can be utterly
destructive;his bowling foes realize that too.In theory,it changes the
equation.The only problem is that Sehwag wasn't exactly in a rampaging mood in
the two-day game;if anything,he looked tentative and concerned.At Monday's
training session,too,he kept feeling his shoulder indicating that it was still
raw.His bat-speed was neither quicksilver nor his follow-through pronounced
enough.It doesn't augur well.The good news is that Gautam Gambhir has also
recovered from his Lord's blow.Together,they offer solidity to the batting which
has sorely been missing so far;with Rahul Dravid returning to No.3 and VVS
Laxman to No.5,India should finally hope to show their full prowess with the
bat.Sachin Tendulkar will be more comfortable too,sandwiched between the two
Test protagonists.He is the only Indian to have scored a century here but that
was way back in 1996,when his outlook towards his art was so different.He would
be hoping to regain a bit of that approach,if not the strokes,to get the 100th
100 out of the way.Only then,he and the team can focus on the job of saving the
series,if not their position.Suresh Raina should take the No.6 spot,even though
he didn't seem too happy to be in the line of fire.Virat Kohli has come in as
replacement for Yuvraj Singh but he didn't have a great time either in West
Indies;he will be happy just to soak in the English atmosphere.India's bigger
concern will be their bowling.They will seriously consider going in with four
seamers,especially with Harbhajan Singh out of the equation.The greenish tinge
makes it an even more tempting thought.But can Ishant Sharma,S Sreesanth,Praveen
Kumar and Munaf Patel exploit the conditions? Can they bowl England out twice
over? Or will they fail to drive home the last few nails,as it happened at
Lord's and Trent Bridge.England have a few concerns themselves.Their openers
have not laid a solid foundation yet;Jonathan Trott is out with an injury;Chris
Tremlett is yet to regain his fitness.But they still bat deep and have enormous
confidence in their bowling.James Anderson,Stuart Broad and Tim Bresnan are a
particularly formidable trio.They have hunted well as a group and will fancy
their chances here too;it will give them a third straight victory and the World
No.1 title too.After that,they will know no fear.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                               Hyderabad Edition

Burningham: Riots spread beyond London

BYLINE: Ashis Ray TNN

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 702 words


London: London,Birmingham and several other English cities continued to convulse
with violence on Tuesday as 16,000 policemen patrolled the streets to check
arson and looting.A worried Prime Minister David Cameron cut short his vacation
in Italy to hasten back to the burning metropolis.Despite the massive
deployment,rioting took place in West Bromwich in Birmingham early on Tuesday
evening.Birmingham,with its large South Asian population,has been in the thick
of violence since Monday evening.Tuesday's clashes weren't too far away from the
Edgbaston Cricket Ground where India will be playing the third Test against
England on Wednesday.Rioting was also reported from Manchester.Until Tuesday
evening,525 people were arrested and 100 charged in connection with violence in
the capital.In Birmingham,138 others were rounded up by the police.The riots
claimed their first victim when Scotland Yard said a 26-year-old man,found shot
in a car in Croydon in South London,had died in hospital on Tuesday.Cameron
described the riots as "sickening" and almost tripled the number of policemen
whose job would be to prevent riotous young people from plundering shops.Team
India stay in,but 3rd Test's on Team India was making dinner plans after
training and shopping all of Tuesday,when the violence on London's streets hit
home.They were told to stay in the hotel as arson and loot was spreading to
Birmingham.But that was about it.Within hours of doubts being expressed about
the third Test beginning Wednesday,the English cricket board clarified: "There's
nothing to think the match won't go ahead... It's business as usual.The match
will start at 11am local time."P 17 LONDON BURNING Indian-majority areas isles
of peace The riots claimed their first victim when Scotland Yard said a
26-year-old man,found shot in a car in Croydon in South London,had died in
hospital on Tuesday.PM David Cameron described the riots as "sickening" and
almost tripled the number of policemen whose job would be to prevent riotous
young people from plundering shops.Although he stopped short of calling in the
military,the police considered using plastic bullets for the first time in the
country.Cameron,who recalled the Parliament from summer recess,tried to reassure
the city's population,saying,"People should be in no doubt that we will do
everything necessary to restore order to Britain's streets."

He told rioters,"You will feel the full force of the law.And if you are old
enough to commit these crimes,you are old enough to face the punishment."
Parliament will meet on Thursday and there is bound to be a political fallout of
this widespread lawlessness.The crisis will be a test for the coalition
government,accused of making cuts in government spending which infuriated the
economically deprived sections.Leaves have been cancelled for the police in
London and reinforcements have been brought in from all over the
country.Armoured vehicles moved around in some of the worst-hit areas but even
then it was difficult to deal with the chaos which unfolded in different parts
of London,as well as in Bristol,Liverpool and Birmingham.There was no single
unifying cause for the rioters.According to officials,what had begun as a
protest against the killing of Mark Duggan,allegedly shot by the police,had now
become an excuse for invading shops and taking away goods.Cops said it was a
manifestation of "criminal greed" though some rioters insisted they were opposed
to sharp government spending cuts and the proposal to do away with tens of
thousands of public sector jobs.But most were attracted simply by the
opportunity for violence."Come join the fun!" shouted a man in Hackney,east
London.All London police holding cells were full and prisoners were being
shifted outside the city,officials said.Among those charged was an
11-year-old.Even Twitter was being monitored.The police issued warnings that
those who posted messages inciting others could face arrest.Notably,boroughs
where Indians or Indian-origin people are largely settled have been relatively
peaceful.West London suburbs of Southall and Hounslow,Harrow and Wembley in the
north-west and Leicester in the East Midlands of England did not report any
violence.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

India fans bad losers as SA nails T20 series in style

BYLINE: Telford Vice

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 235 words


JUST like that, South Africa have won a series in India. And in some style: they
wiped the floor with the home side in the second T20 in Cuttack last night,
winning by six wickets with 17 balls remaining.


 But there was nothing easy about this success, achieved between bouts of crowd
violence and after a 2000km journey from the first match of the series in
Dharamsala on Friday.
 A full house of 44790 red-misted fans had crowded into the Barabati Stadium to
see the first T20 international at a ground that India have graced with their
presence in just two Tests and 17 one-day internationals since 1982.
 They did not like what they saw. India were shot out for 92. That left South
Africa's batsmen minimal work, and JP Duminy did the biggest chunk in his
unbeaten 30.
 "It's easy to be a captain when the bowlers perform like that," Faf du Plessis
said. "They were exceptional - that's probably the best we've ever bowled in a
T20."
 It was indeed a handsome win but it was earned amid ugliness. Perhaps the
shower of plastic bottles filled with water that flew from the stands towards
the field as victory and defeat neared, preventing play for a total of 54
minutes, explained why India don't play in Cuttack more often.
 RUNNING RIOT: India's Virat Kohli, right, dives for the crease as AB de
Villiers runs him out during the second T20 cricket match in Cuttack yesterday
Picture: DIBYANGSHU SARKAR/AFP PHOTO

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Victory, and then setback, for Indian opposition chief

BYLINE: GARDINER HARRIS and HARI KUMAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

ABSTRACT

A court has rejected a call seeking the prosecution of Narendra Modi over his
role in ethnic riots in 2002, but an inquiry has been started into whether he
used state assets to spy on a woman.

FULL TEXT

The fiery head of India's leading opposition party, who remains under pressure
for his handling of an ethnic riot 11 years ago, has won a victory in one of the
many disputes dogging him as he seeks to become India's next prime minister, but
faces a setback in another.

An Indian court on Thursday rejected a petition seeking the prosecution of the
opposition leader, Narendra Modi, the head of the Bharatiya Janata Party, over
his role in riots in his home state, Gujarat, in 2002 that killed more than
1,000 people, most of them Muslims.

But the government ordered a formal investigation into allegations that Mr.
Modi's top lieutenant, using state intelligence and security officers, oversaw
wide-ranging surveillance of a woman on behalf of Mr. Modi.

Top members of Mr. Modi's party hailed the court decision but denounced the
government-ordered investigation as a politically motivated witch hunt.

In response to the court judgment, Arun Jaitley, the leader of the opposition in
the upper house of Parliament, said on Twitter, ''The verdict has proved that
propaganda can never be a substitute for truth.'' But after the government's
announcement of the spying investigation, he told reporters, ''This action is
politically motivated.''

The petition seeking Mr. Modi's prosecution was filed by Zakia Jafri, the widow
of Ehsan Jafri, a Muslim lawmaker in the governing Indian National Congress
party who was among 69 killed - some burned alive - during the riots when a
Hindu mob attacked a Muslim enclave in the city of Ahmedabad.

Neither case is likely to derail Mr. Modi's growing popularity in India, since
his tough-guy image is a big part of his appeal. Yet taken together, the cases
demonstrate why he is a deeply divisive figure.

The most serious allegations against Mr. Modi concern the 2002 riots, which
began in February of that year after Muslims set fire to a train carrying Hindu
pilgrims who were returning from a visit to a shrine. Fifty-nine Hindus were
burned alive.

In the days following the train attack, riots rippled across Gujarat, in western
India, fed by a strike called by Hindu groups and encouraged by some of Mr.
Modi's close associates. Initial investigations by the Gujarat authorities were
so suspiciously incompetent that the Indian Supreme Court ordered special police
units to redo the investigations, which eventually resulted in hundreds of
convictions.

Ms. Jafri claimed that Mr. Modi, a Hindu and chief minister of Gujarat, was
criminally negligent and complicit in neglecting to quell the riots. A judge in
Gujarat rejected that argument on Thursday.

Ms. Jafri said she was disappointed in the ruling. ''I won't give up the
fight,'' she told reporters. ''I will appeal the verdict to a higher court.''

Mr. Modi responded on Twitter, ''Truth alone triumphs.''

The spying allegations are more sordid but less serious. They came to light
after transcripts of conversations between a top Modi aide and police officers
were published by a website that said it had received the recordings from a
Gujarat police officer, G.L. Singhal, who is accused of participating in
assassinations and is now cooperating with the authorities.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 1, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hindu Rioters Kill 60 Muslims in India

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1168 words

DATELINE: AHMEDABAD, India, Friday, March 1


Hindu mobs rampaged through this city in western India on Thursday, killing more
than 60 people as they burned Muslims alive in their homes and set fire to
Muslim-owned restaurants, shops, cars and apartments.

The religious violence, the most serious India has experienced in years, was
retaliation for a Muslim mob's attack Wednesday on a trainload of Hindu
fundamentalists in which 58 people were burned to death in a single car. Most
were women and children.

Those on the train had been returning from a mission to build a temple in
Ayodhya, on the site of a mosque whose destruction by fervent Hindus in 1992 set
off riots across India that killed more than 1,000.

On Thursday the central government sent 1,000 paramilitary troops to this city
of five million in Gujarat State, which has India's worst record of Hindu-Muslim
violence.

The government plans to have 1,000 soldiers on hand here today, when Hindu
nationalists have called for a nationwide strike, bringing the total armed
forces there to about 11,000, state officials said. Curfews were declared in 30
villages, towns and cities across Gujarat, which has a population of 51 million.
Hundreds of people were arrested. Half a dozen were shot and killed by police
officers. "The police opened fire on many occasions to stop rioters from looting
and killing people," said Gujarat's home secretary, Nityandandam.

But many witnesses said the police stood by and watched as Muslims and their
homes, cars and businesses were attacked. The city's police commissioner, P. C.
Pande, acknowledged Thursday night that his men "are equally influenced by the
overall general sentiment."

A teacher described in a telephone interview how he and a few other residents of
his small apartment complex -- all Muslims -- held off a mob of 500 Hindus by
brandishing two small revolvers.

But when one of the residents was shot in the arm by someone in the crowd, all
the residents fled to one apartment and locked themselves in.

"The police would drive by knowing the crowd was pelting us with stones, and
they did not even stop to disperse the crowd," the teacher said.

The mob burned the cars and scooters in the parking lot, as well as the
teacher's apartment. His furniture was charred and smoldering when he got home.
He begged that his name not be used, saying, "I would be killed tomorrow."

In one particularly horrific series of incidents in a suburb of Ahmedabad, young
men set fire to a number of houses, immolating 20 men, women and children, state
and city officials said.

Commissioner Pande said the police were at the scene at the time and opened
fire, killing two men. "But during this battle with police, the houses were
torched," he said. The police officers were in front of the houses, while the
mob entered through the back, he said.

"It's certainly no defense," of the police's inability to protect the families
in their homes, he acknowledged.

Secretary Nityandandam (who uses only one name) insisted the police had done the
best they could. "The police were there and tried to prevent it," he said. "They
were outnumbered."

Leaders of the opposition Congress Party here in New Delhi sharply criticized
the government for not sending the army quickly on Wednesday after the carnage
at the train station, in Godhra, especially given the state's history of ethnic
riots.

India's home minister, L. K. Advani, said in an interview Thursday evening that
Gujarat's chief minister had asked for the army reinforcements in the morning
and that the government had had to hold a cabinet meeting before his request
could be approved.

Mr. Advani said he had dispatched paramilitary forces on Wednesday. "Whatever I
could spare, I sent," he said, predicting the violence would be brought under
control "in a couple of days."

The issue that set off the current conflagration was the drive by the World
Hindu Council to begin building a temple to Ram, an incarnation of the god
Vishnu, on the site of the 16th-century mosque in Ayodhya that was torn down by
militant Hindus.

Hindus agitating to build the temple were moving by train toward Ayodhya from
Gujarat, a bastion of Hindu nationalism and the last major state in India that
is ruled by the nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. Ayodhya is in Uttar Pradesh,
a state in north-central India.

On train after train over the past week, they had passed through a poor, densely
populated Muslim neighborhood in Godhra, often shouting slogans about building a
temple, slogans the Muslims found provocative, local police officials said.

It was in Godhra that Muslims attacked one of these trains on Wednesday and set
the deadly fire. Among the dozens arrested are two Muslim members of the
municipal council. Three more Muslim council members are being sought, said Raju
Bhargava, district superintendent of police in Godhra.

Witnesses have told the police that the politicians incited the crowd gathered
at the station to violence. "They seem to have been the prime movers behind the
incident," Mr. Bhargava said.

Mr. Advani, who himself led the movement for a Ram temple a decade ago and is
seen as the most hard-line leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, is now the
second most powerful elected official in India and responsible for law and
order.

On Wednesday he sternly told the World Hindu Council that it must either drop
plans to build the temple in defiance of court orders, or he would stop them, a
position that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee also took.

But the council, in a rage about the killing of its followers on the train,
defiantly refused on Thursday to comply unless Hindu religious leaders
sanctioned the court order.

Even as authorities closed off roads to Ayodhya, fearing riots there, Omkar
Bhave, a council official, said at a news conference here that those who want to
help build the temple, whose construction is planned for March 15, should all
head for Ayodhya.

"If arrested in between, please resume the journey again when you are released,"
he said.

Mr. Bhave bitterly criticized the prime minister and the home minister for
failing to find a way to get the temple built or even to negotiate with Muslim
groups that want a mosque on the site. He said it would be a good thing if the
prime minister resigned. "This is criminal negligence," he said.

The temple movement threatens to contribute to the spread of Hindu-Muslim riots
at a time when the government is confronting Pakistan with a huge military
buildup along the border. Many in the opposition have called on the government
to arrest the Hindu council's leaders as threats to law and order.

But the Bharatiya Janata Party has a family relationship with the council and
instead chose to seek mediation from the "mother" of the family, the National
Volunteers Association, known by its Hindi acromym, R.S.S.

On Thursday, after the prime minister met with leaders of the association, both
sides agreed the National Volunteers Association would try to find a compromise.

"I hope we'll be able to sort out that problem," Mr. Advani said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In escalating religious violence, Hindu protesters in Ahmedabad
attacked Muslim homes and businesses yesterday, killing scores, a day after
Muslims killed dozens of Hindus by setting fire to a train. Poonam Ben, left,
searched for the body of her father, a passenger on the train, at a morgue.
(Reuters); (Associated Press) Map of India highlighting Ahmedabad: Hindus
pillaged and burned houses yesterday in Ahmedabad.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 6, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Deadly Firestorm, India Officials Ask Why

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: GODHRA, India, March 5


While the nation's attention has been riveted on the deadliest Hindu-Muslim
riots India has seen in almost a decade, investigators here have been trying to
fathom the unspeakable crime that ignited them.

Last Wednesday morning a train loaded with Hindu activists coasted into the
densely populated heart of a poor, tough Muslim neighborhood here. Minutes
later, a Muslim mob materialized from the ether and descended on it. The mob
sent Coach S-6 up in flames, and with it cities, towns and villages across the
western state of Gujarat.

Fifty-eight people -- mostly Hindu women and children -- were burned alive here
in a matter of minutes, while 519 people, mostly Muslims, have been burned,
stabbed, beaten and otherwise killed in the vengeful bloodletting that has
followed.

A week later, this city of 120,000 is under a curfew so complete it has left
hardly more than policemen slouching languorously in lawn chairs and goats,
pigs, dogs and cows on the streets.

There are still many unanswered questions. Was there an altercation on the
platform that sparked the rage of the Muslims? Was the attack planned or
spontaneous? Was India's favorite nemesis, Pakistan's military intelligence
agency, pulling the rioters' strings?

The Muslim mayor of Godhra and two Muslim city council members have been
arrested in connection with the train attack, as have 38 Muslims who lived along
the railway tracks, officials here say. The officials could not be reached for
comment because they are in police custody.

In Ahmedabad, another city here in the western state of Gujarat, the police are
said to have filed reports accusing local Hindu politicians and leaders of the
World Hindu Council -- the group that rolled into town last week -- of
encouraging the attacks against Muslims that followed.

However unclear the particulars of what happened in Godhra remain, the context
for the crime is etched in this small city's history.

In a predominantly Hindu country where Muslims are a minority of about 12
percent of the population, Godhra is almost evenly divided between Hindus and
Muslims.

It patently lacks the kind of social, civic and workplace integration that
blesses more peaceful cities, says Asutosh Varshney, a political scientist who
has studied both India's riot-prone and harmonious cities in his book, "Ethnic
Conflict and Civil Life" (Yale University Press, 2002).

Rioting is a habit that Godhra has been practicing for more than half a century.
The clashes began around the time known as partition, when India and
overwhelmingly Muslim Pakistan were carved from the British Empire in 1947.

A legendary episode came in the early 1980's when the district administrator
imposed a day-and-night curfew that lasted six months. The violence reignited in
1992 when Hindu fanatics, including many from the World Hindu Council, tore down
a northern Indian mosque with their bare hands, crowbars and other implements.

Today, the mutual contempt and mistrust with which Hindus and Muslims regard
each other here is remarkable for its openness.

Gopalsinh G. Solanki is a member of Parliament from the Hindu nationalist
Bharatiya Janata Party that governs this state and leads the government at the
national level. Without self-consciousness, Mr. Solanki, a prosperous lawyer,
described the Muslims of his city as pro-Pakistani people who do little work
except to steal.

Gujarat borders the Pakistani province of Sindh and Mr. Solanki asserted that
"ladies and gents" from the Muslim community here marry Pakistanis, establishing
a linkage that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency can exploit.

"Many people are spies," he said.

Senior leaders of the national government from his party said the possibility of
a link to Pakistani or outside groups was being investigated.

But for the poor people of the Signal locality that stretches along the railway
tracks, the trouble was caused by the great, oppressive "they" -- the Hindus on
the train and the Hindus in their town.

"They created some trouble, then arrested all Muslim leaders to break the back
of Muslims, to make Muslims slaves," said Mohammad Salim, a truck driver, as
dusk fell and swarms of mosquitoes rose from fetid puddles of still water in the
muddy courtyard. "They themselves burned the bogies," meaning the train cars.

The fateful events of Wednesday morning unfolded in the span of 15 minutes. The
Sabarmati Express pulled into Godhra station at 7:43 a.m., according to the
station superintendent, Jaisinh Katija.

Most people agree that some scuffle ensued in the five minutes the train paused
at the station. It was probably between the Muslim tea and pakora vendors and
Hindu activists who had just returned from the northern Indian town where the
World Hindu Council is trying to build a temple on the site of the 16th century
mosque razed in 1992.

Rajendrasinh Patel, a state assemblyman from the Congress Party, said a witness
told him that a worker from the World Hindu Council, known for its virulent
anti-Muslim rhetoric, demanded that a tea vendor say, "Jai Shri Ram" -- or
"Victory to Ram" -- the incarnation of the Hindu god Vishnu -- before the Hindu
would pay him.

There are dozens of Muslim tea and snack vendors who work the platform and the
trains -- and they may have helped rouse a mob to avenge the insult, some
officials say.

Seventeen minutes after the train arrived at the station -- and after someone
twice pulled a chain to stop the train as it eased away from the platform -- a
mob variously estimated at 500 to 2,000 people engulfed the train, stoning and
burning it.

Pradeepsingh B. Thakur, who drives the city's only fire engine, said he roared
toward the train station by 8:20, only to be waved down by Bilal Haji, a member
of the town council. Mr. Thakur pulled over, figuring that the elected official
was going to give him directions. Instead, Mr. Haji signaled the crowd to begin
stoning the fire truck, then raced off on his motorcycle, the firefighter said.

"I was delayed 8 to 10 minutes because of the crowd," Mr. Thakur said.

Jayanti Ravi, a decisive, commanding district administrator who wears a thick
braid down her back, was the first to enter the still smoldering coach.

Determined not to give in to emotion, she was nonetheless moved by the horror of
what she witnessed.

The fire must have been most intense on the sides of the sleeper car.

"There was a heap of bodies in the middle," she said. "People ran to the middle
to save themselves. There on the top was what must have been a lady with an
infant sheltered in her hands. I saw skulls black and charred."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Ahmedabad, Muslims dug graves yesterday for victims of
reprisal killings after a Muslim attack on a train carrying Hindu
fundamentalists last week. Some asked if Pakistan might have had a hand in the
train attack. (Associated Press) Map of India highlighting Godhra

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            February 19, 2010 Friday

Home alone

BYLINE: The Indian Express

LENGTH: 379  words


Cities are where strangers meet. But in Ahmedabad, a town which is yet to
recover from the intense trauma of the 2002 communal riots, both Hindus and
Muslims still perceive each other purely through a lens of fear and insecurity.
The municipal corporation randomly picked some 8,000 families to resettle them
along the Sabarmati Riverfront project - a list that naturally included Hindus
and Muslims, and placed them in proximity to each other. There was no deliberate
social engineering element to this exercise, but both communities protested and
demanded to be kept separate because they felt this situation would leave them
defenceless in the event of communal violence.

Ahmedabad is notable for its lack of civic mixing. Generally speaking,
associational forms of civic engagement (through trade unions, business
associations, non-communal cadre-based parties) blunt religious tension and
prevent it from spiralling into violence.

As political scientist Ashutosh Varshney has pointed out, in 1969, the town
witnessed one of the worst riots India had seen, but unlike in 2002 state
machinery was not perceived as complicit. Cities of stark partitions are always
vulnerable to communal conflagration - making them highly dependent on the
police and administration to make sure the sparks are doused in time. In this
case, the fact that representatives of both communities insist on fresh
allotment, and intend petitioning the courts to undo this decision, goes to
prove how little faith they repose in the state's capacity to deal with
incidents, or in each other. This nervous and dysfunctional dynamic means that
citizens possess a true sense of trust and security only when they live among
neighbours of their own community. Obviously, this kind of set-up would only
sharpen existing fissures, and create an even more destructive, mutually
suspicious climate.

If the state accedes to this demand, it would be a clear admission of its own
failure in keeping the peace. If it has any intention of subduing the flickering
animosities and moving on from the pain and anger of the riots, it must insist
on keeping the relocation plan as it is, and then ensure that the neighbourhood
remains utterly safe. But then again, if only a single housing project could
ensure integration.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Deadly Bombs Strike India's West;
Attack Came Day After Similar Blasts in South

BYLINE: Emily Wax; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, July 26


At least 29 people were killed and 88 injured when as many as 16 small blasts
tore through the western city of Ahmedabad on Saturday evening. It was the
second synchronized bomb attack in India in two days.

The coordinated, low-intensity blasts occurred outside a diamond market, near a
hospital, next to a railway station and inside a bus, a day after at least seven
small explosions killed two people in the southern technology hub of Bangalore.
There were no leads in the investigation in Bangalore, a cosmopolitan city known
as India's Silicon Valley.

"The blasts seem to be along the lines of yesterday's Bangalore blasts," the
minister of state for home affairs, Sriprakash Jaiswal, told reporters. "It is a
conspiracy to unsettle the country. All metros are on a high alert."

In Ahmedabad, television images showed windows of buses and storefronts blown
out. A red car under which a bomb had been placed was shown in flames outside
the hospital. Police sealed the city's main railway station. Indian news media
reported that several of the bombs were hidden in metal lunchboxes.

Some of the blasts took place in communally sensitive areas. Gujarat state,
where Ahmedabad is located, endured sectarian rioting by Hindus and Muslims in
2002 that left an estimated 1,000 Muslims dead and thousands of homes and
businesses burned across the region.

Saturday's first explosion, of a bomb planted on a bicycle, occurred at 6:40
p.m. in Maninagar, an area in the southern part of the city at the heart of the
constituency of Gujarat's controversial chief minister, Narendra Modi.

Modi, from the right-leaning Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had angered the
state's Muslims, who have joined human rights groups in accusing him of
complicity in the 2002 sectarian riots.

India's president, Pratibha Patil, blamed the explosions on those who wish to
fuel communal hostilities, and she urged civic leaders to try to maintain peace.

India's Intelligence Bureau announced that earlier Saturday it had received an
e-mail from a little-known terrorist group called Indian Mujaheddin about a
possible attack.

A similar message was received in May when the pink-walled city of Jaipur, in
northwestern India, was rocked by a series of simultaneous blasts that killed
more than 83 people and seriously wounded more than 200. The Jaipur bombings
remain unsolved.

India has experienced a wave of bombings in recent years targeting mosques,
markets, trains and temples. Many of the attacks remain unsolved, despite being
blamed on Islamist groups in Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Modi's BJP has accused India's ruling Congress party of being soft on terrorism,
criticizing it for overturning a controversial 2002 law known as the Prevention
of Terrorism Act.

"It looks like our anti-terror legal framework is not up to the mark, and it got
exposed," a senior BJP leader, L.K. Advani, said Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Associated Press; Vehicles burn at the site of one of the 16
explosions that tore through the Indian city of Ahmedabad, in western Gujarat
state.
IMAGE; By Amit Dave -- Reuters; An injured man is taken to a hospital in
Ahmedabad. Indian news media said that some of the bombs had been planted in
lunchboxes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Indian Troops Move to Prevent Riots;
Renewed Hindu-Muslim Violence Feared After Temple Attack

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: GANDHINAGAR, India Sept. 25


Soldiers moved into position today to prevent new religious rioting in western
India after two gunmen identified as Muslims killed 28 worshipers at a Hindu
temple.

India flew extra troops into the western state of Gujarat, where the temple was
attacked Tuesday, and said they would be deployed if Hindu-Muslim clashes
erupted. The Defense Ministry said the troops were requested by the state
government, which had been criticized for not acting quickly to quell sectarian
rioting earlier this year that killed at least 1,000 people.

Indian troops stormed the Akshardham Temple at dawn today after an overnight
siege and killed the gunmen. The gunmen had eluded government forces for nearly
14 hours, lying quiet for long periods then returning fire and lobbing grenades,
Brig. Raj Sitapathy said.

One commando was killed during the assault, and two policemen died later of
their wounds, police said, bringing the death toll, including the gunmen, to 33.
Seventy-four people were wounded, including at least 23 police officers.

No one claimed responsibility for the attack, and the gunmen were not
identified. But Indian officials said they were young Muslims apparently bent on
avenging Muslim deaths in this year's riots. Sitapathy said letters found on the
gunmen said they acted "because they could not tolerate what happened to
children, women and Muslims during the Gujarat riots."

India blamed the attack on its Muslim neighbor and rival, Pakistan, which
dismissed the allegation. A spokesman for Pakistan's Foreign Ministry, Aziz
Ahmad Khan, said: "These accusations are ridiculous. Such terrorist attacks
don't promote any cause. We feel those behind the terrorist attack are trying to
heighten tension in the region."

Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee visited the temple and called for an end to
the violence. "I have seen blotches of blood here. This blood will dry up but
will leave behind its marks, which will be a challenge to us," he told
reporters. "I assure you we will fight terrorism and defeat it together."

The World Hindu Council, a group allied with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party,
called for a nationwide general strike Thursday to protest what it called
"jihadi terrorism."

"The strike is to warn that if the government does not act in time, people will
take the law into their own hands," said Mohan Salekar, the group's general
secretary.

But Vajpayee said in Gandhinagar: "First there is a violent incident in one
place, then there is mindless revenge. We need to end this."

Up to 500 pilgrims, priests, museum guides and souvenir traders were in the
complex when the attackers zoomed up in a car and leaped over the fence. At
first they were mistaken for policemen.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              79 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                       Political & Business Daily (India)

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday

'Accountability' for Gujarat riots is of interest to all: EU

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Feb. 7 -- AT a time when Narendra Modi is reaching out to
cross-section of people nationally and internationally, the European Union today
stressed on the "accountability" for the 2002 Gujarat riots, maintaining that
the matter was of "interest" to everyone.

It also said the issue of 2002 riots figured in its meeting with Modi, who had
met the EU delegation last month after victory in the Gujarat polls.

"Modi came to (have) lunch with us in January at our invitation to discuss what
happened in 2002. To discuss issues that have risen in terms of judicial
process, accountability for 2002, to also discuss the development in Gujarat and
his recent electoral victory," said Joao Cravinho, Ambassador of the EU to
India.

Asked if the EU, which has boycotted Modi after the riots was softening up, he
said, "The accountability of what happened in 2002, I think is the matter that
is of interest to Indians and is of interest for people around the world." He
said that in India, there is a certain amount of emotion attached to what
happened in 2002."Yesterday, I understand the CM went and gave his speech which
was a matter of great interest but then there were others who were very
unhappy... What I know is there is a certainly a lot of emotions in this matter.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Political & Business Daily.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 pbd.in
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

It's not worth risking a bigger conflict for this disputed enclave;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth Daily Express columnist

SECTION: LEADER ; 12

LENGTH: 947  words


FOR anyone studying the RussianGeorgian hostilities two words should leap off
the page and those words are: Disputed Enclave.

That is what South Ossetia really is: a knob of land, not much bigger than
Norfolk, that is claimed as sovereign territory by Russia to its north and
Georgia to its south.

It has a tiny population, grows nothing, manufactures nothing and exports
nothing. It has no priceless gem stones, strategic minerals or valuable
deposits; and it certainly has no oil or gas, the modern equivalents of a cause
for war.

Is it important enough to justify conflict between Russia and Nato? Absolutely
not. Is it the only such place in the world? Again, no, no, no.

Let us just look around. Even we British own three disputed enclaves.

Though the Irish constitution has been amended to withdraw the formal claim to
Ulster, 90 per cent of the Irish devotedly believe it is part of their Republic
of Ireland. The IRA sought to prove it for 30 years with bombs and murder.

We say Gibraltar is ours, Spain says it is theirs. And Argentina insists the
Falklands - and, yes, an island or archipelago can be an enclave in the sea -
are theirs; we say they are ours and have fought a vicious war to prove it.

IN EACH case the acid test, a referendum, is something we need not fear. We know
each population would vote to stay British. That is why the claimants think it a
very bad idea. But, then, as Mandy RiceDavies once remarked in court, they
would, wouldn't they?

Across the Atlantic, President Ydigoras of Honduras once claimed neighbouring
Belize (formerly British Honduras) as his and threatened to invade. We won;
Belize got its independence on British terms.

Nearer home there are two Spanish enclaves gouged into the north coast of
Morocco that Morocco wants back.

Madrid replied: "No chance."

A resolution by referendum?

Ah, here's the rub. Statesmen only agree to a plebiscite they know they can win.
The last one in Gibraltar said about 97 per cent of Gibraltarians wanted to stay
British. But in Melilla and Ceuta, the Spanish-Moroccans would probably vote to
rejoin Morocco, so they can whistle in the wind for a referendum.

Governments can become mildly lunatic over the most ridiculous of land claims.
Some years ago, Moroccans landed on a Spanish-owned, goatgrazing islet called
Parsley and a chunk of the Spanish fleet was put to sea. For years, China lusted
after Hong Kong and Macao but wisely waited until the treaties of occupation ran
out and the British and Portuguese left peacefully.

Goa was once a Portuguese enclave until the oh-so-peaceloving Indian premier
Pandit Nehru invaded and annexed it in a single afternoon.

President Sukarno, dictator of Indonesia, claimed North Borneo (the enclaves of
Sabah and Sarawak) was his and sent in troops. We claimed both territories, once
ours, belonged to Malaysia and slipped in the Ghurkas and the SAS. That usually
slows 'em down. The secret war eventually fizzled out. The two enclaves still
belong to Malaysia.

But if there are two pieces of land whose sudden invasion could easily trigger a
huge regional or global war, they are Kashmir and Taiwan.

The latter, formerly Formosa, was the offshore Chinese island to which the
defeated Nationalist Chinese of Chiang-KaiShek retreated in 1949 as mainland
China fell to Mao Tse Tung's Communists. Since then, Beijing has repeatedly
claimed it back. But Formosa is now Taiwan, a prosperous, democratic,
USA-aligned republic and America would have to take its side - and that includes
force of arms, of which America has a mighty arsenal.

The two giants India and Pakistan ought to be the jewels in the post-Raj
Commonwealth crown. Yet they have been at virtual war since 1947 and twice at
actual war because of two small but beautiful enclaves lying between them:

Jammu and Kashmir.

India owns and occupies them; Pakistan claims them.

Once lovely resorts for tourists, they are proving grounds for fundamentalist
terrorists (or patriotic liberators) and given over to kidnaps, murders and
riots. India and Pakistan are incredibly passionate about Kashmir; both have
huge armies and nuclear weapons and Pakistan is profoundly unstable. Why not a
referendum? Because Kashmir is mostly Muslim, would vote pro-Pakistan and India,
therefore, will not grant one.

These disputed enclaves are almost all the residues of former empires which
collapsed and withdrew. The latest such empire was the Soviet one, of which
Vladimir Putin is a loyal son and unreformed devotee. A majority of Russians
absolutely agree with him.

As it ebbed in defeat 17 years ago, the empire left behind, as a tide leaves
rock pools, enclaves of ethnic Russians which Moscow had deliberately implanted
to head off any sign of nationalism. Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, for example,
have large Russian minorities.

SOME of these disputes aren't even with Moscow.

Nagorno-Karabakh is 80 per cent Armenian-ethnic but belongs to Azerbaijan,
another potential powder keg.

The end of the Soviet empire was the messiest of them all and left a tangle of
claims and mixed populations, especially in the Caucasus and around the Black
and Caspian Seas.

Now a new and ruthless tsar in Moscow is using his oil wealth to afford the
armed strength to avenge the death of empire, even threatening Ukraine.

South Ossetia and Abkhazia were Soviet, then Georgian, now Russian again. Short
of an insane war, they are not recoverable. They will die down, like storms in a
samovar.

But what of the future? Will Putin go on? And if he does?

The West can penalise Russia politically, diplomatically, economically. And we
should. But we must not plunge into war for an enclave in the Caucasian
patchwork quilt no bigger than Norfolk. Sad but true.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASH POINT: Georgian soldiers under attack as Russia asserts its
control of the region

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Are the British just too phlegmatic?;
Customer service

BYLINE: Philip Hensher

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 943 words


While I was in Calcutta over the new year, an interestingly violent incident
occurred at the railway station. On 29 December, The Times of India reported,
Howrah station "turned into a battlefield". An angry mob "smashed ticket
counters" and "fought police with bricks". The mob, the report said, was
dispersed only by a police charge.

The riot was caused by delayed trains. The passengers on a late-running service
set off the violence by heckling the train's "motorman" and spitting on his
face, before ransacking the station manager's office and destroying the ticket
office. "The vandals didn't even spare female railway employees on duty at
ticket counters 1, 3 and 5". The Times of India opined that the violence was
"waiting to happen".

To a British reader, the breaking out of a riot over poor service is an
unexpected and unfamiliar phenomenon. It starts to sound still more peculiar
when the details of the unsatisfactory train service are gone into. The mob
broke into violence because the train that was carrying them was all of 23
minutes late. It was supposed to arrive at 9.55, and was delayed until 10.18.
Let me just write that again, in astonishment: a train running 23 minutes late
was the direct cause of a protest riot in Calcutta.

We British riot about the imposition of new burdens, such as the increase in
university tuition fees, the introduction of the poll tax; occasionally over
points of political principle; occasionally in protest against heavy-handed
policing tactics. In the course of such riots, consumer outlets are often
smashed up. But the idea of smashing them in because their service is terrible
is a curious idea to us. We would not think of throwing a brick or smashing a
window over a late-running train. We would shake our heads and shuffle our feet,
and curiously comradely conversations between suffering strangers might start to
break out.

I had an opportunity to observe this on a train journey in England just after
Christmas. The arrival of the morning of 27 December came as a total surprise to
the train companies, who were still dozily carrying out track maintenance. All
reservations had been lost, and after half an hour the train was jammed full -
some quite elderly and distressed people were forced to stand. After 40 minutes
on this lunchtime service, the buffet had run out of any food. Then the train
stopped dead for three-quarters of an hour. When we pulled into St Pancras an
hour and a half late, did we weep, scream or start to smash things? No, we just
said, "Oh well, what do you expect?"

But once you started to riot in Britain over failures of service, where would
you stop? This week, it was reported that large numbers of Christmas cards were
still being delivered by the Royal Mail, three weeks after they were posted -
and the Royal Mail used, not 20 years ago, to be one of the most reliable and
efficient organisations in the land. How we used to laugh when we heard of the
Italian postal service taking 10 days to get a postcard from Tuscany to London.
Not any more. But still we wouldn't riot about it.

India is not necessarily associated in the mind with great efficiency, and
certainly its most elaborate systems present an antiquated face to the Western
visitor. Nevertheless, the structures which unfailingly return your laundry to
you, or manage to type your name on a passenger list and stick it to the door of
a train compartment do deserve the accolade of systems that work.

Most remarkable is the legendary case of Bombay's tiffinwallahs, examined many
times as an example of supreme efficiency. Lunch for office workers is prepared
at home, in the suburbs of Bombay, and brought to the office worker in the
centre by 5,000 tiffinwallahs. Some 200,000 lunches are delivered every day,
identified not by dockets or writing but by a complex set of markings. The
lunches arrive, and the boxes afterwards are returned. The tiffinwallahs, it is
claimed, on average lose one tiffin box every two months - for all effective
purposes, the system is actually perfect.

On the other hand, on three of the last four occasions I've caught a train in
Britain, the buffet manager has announced that, to his astonishment, he seems to
have run out of food well before the end of the journey. Customer demand for
food at lunchtime is just one of many entirely novel concepts for our large
organisations.

We could go on wondering why India, with its immense disadvantages of scale,
investment, lack of competition and antiquated infrastructure, nevertheless
seems able to serve its customers well in important areas. It might have
something to do with this fact: that when a train is 23 minutes late into
Howrah, the passengers are quite likely to get off, spit in the driver's face
and mount a no doubt exhilarating though rather deplorable riot through the
station premises. That must be quite a high incentive to run your business
efficiently.

I don't recommend violent protest against the wanton inefficiencies of transport
and communications in this country. Don't, whatever you do, start throwing
bricks through the windows of the post office when they deliver letters three
weeks late, or kicking the employees of South West Trains up the arse when, yet
again, they prove incapable of getting a train 200 miles within half an hour of
the promised time. That honestly wouldn't be an appropriate response, and
probably rather illegal to boot. Perhaps we could, at most, upgrade from tutting
and rolling of the eyes to, say, deliberately spilling the train manager's tea
when he passes us by. We pay the price for our Gandhian commitment to
non-violent protest in the quality of the service we get.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

India run-fests too much of a good thing?;
FINAL WHISTLE Strokeplay can seduce you but ODI rule changes have made bowling
in this form of game a thankless task

BYLINE: STEVE JAMES

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 717 words


I loved it, but then I was once a batsman. I was supposed to be out and about on
holiday last week, but the clouds over west Wales were enjoying a particularly
angry time, so some TV viewing was almost unavoidable. It was on, and I became
transfixed.

I am talking about the one-day international between India and Australia in
Nagpur, when the hosts chased down 351 to win in the style of a laughing village
team knocking off a small target before heading to the local hostelry. It was
that easy.

But it was that intoxicating too.

They do say opposites attract, so this former blocker was deeply seduced by the
riot of strokeplay and the torrent of boundaries. But it has certainly provoked
a reaction. Or rather the whole series, that ended on Saturday with another
runfest as India posted 383 batting first to take the series 3-2, has.

Seven ODIs for the Australians just before the Ashes was always going to be
controversial, and with Shane Watson suffering a hamstring injury, the calls of
complaint have only loudened, but it has been the run-drenched nature of the
series that has sparked an even wider debate.

On Saturday Rohit Sharma became only the ODI game's third double centurion, so
has batting in the 50-over game just become too easy? My esteemed friend from
the Guardian, Mike Selvey, certainly thinks so. "It is easy to rubbish bowling
in ODIs but the game is loaded towards batsmen to a ridiculously
disproportionate degree," he tweeted after Nagpur.

He found a rather powerful, and close-to-the-action, ally in India captain MS
Dhoni, who remarked after the same game: "A few of the bowlers are disappointed,
they actually feel it will be better off to put a bowling machine there."

That made me chuckle. Many a time have I heard that line about being a bowling
machine from a disgruntled bowler. But it is true that matters have changed
dramatically in ODIs. The regulation introduced a year ago that only four
fielders can be positioned outside the fielding circle in non-powerplay overs
has made a huge difference. That is one fewer fielder than previously, so it
means one more boundary option every ball for the batsman. And, believe it or
not, many batsmen, even in this macho Twenty20 age, still prefer to aim to hit
sixes at untenanted areas of the ground, rather than attempting to clear
boundary-riding fielders. It is little wonder that batting freedom has reached
new levels.

Another change has been the use of two white balls, so, with each ball only ever
reaching 25 overs of use, reverse swing has become all but extinct. That fast
bowlers are now permitted to bowl two bouncers, rather than one, does not seem
to have appeased the leather-flingers too much either.

My view? These matches have just been extreme examples because of the flatness
of Indian pitches, allied to the speed of the outfields. It is how India will
have wanted things. They possess a batting line-up so powerful in such
conditions that they were simply playing to their strengths. It is what happens
in cricket. India are also pretty handy on turning pitches, thus why England
were privately miffed last summer when they lost the Champions Trophy final to
them at Edgbaston on a pitch spinning like a top. But that was an International
Cricket Council event. Generally in all forms of the game England prepare
pitches to suit themselves these days. It is called using home advantage, not
"cheating", as Malcolm Conn opined about the pitches used for last summer's
Ashes.

That famous Pom-baiter is on a mission, along with Shane Warne, to change what
he saw as the timid Australian press coverage during England's last visit Down
Under.

Not all ODIs will be like those in India recently. Nor should they be. That
would be boring. Pitches will differ. I still think that, most of all,
spectators want to see their teams win, an aim obviously helped by creating
conditions to which their heroes are best suited.

It was the argument I had with Sky Sports last summer when one of their
commentators, Nick Knight, was criticising a three-spinnersladen Glamorgan for a
spinning pitch - and so a low-scoring match - in a Twenty20 match. He said fans
wanted sixes, I said victories.

Glamorgan did not produce another such pitch, and that, I suppose, is the power
of television.

But that is another story.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Running riot: India's Rohit Sharma hit a double century

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       June 2, 2016 Thursday 9:01 AM GMT

24 convicted over 2002 religious riots in western India

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 290 words


An Indian court has convicted 24 suspects, 11 of them for murder, for their part
in religious riots in 2002 in western India.

Special Court Judge PB Desai said that their sentences will be announced next
week. Those convicted of murder could be sentenced to death.

The judge acquitted 36 charged in connection with the rioting in Ahmadabad, the
main city in Gujarat state, in which 69 people - including former Congress
politician Ehsan Jafri - were killed by a Hindu mob.

The riots were triggered when Muslims set fire to a train carrying Hindu
nationalists, killing 60.

More than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims, were killed in three months of
violence that hit the state after that.

A prominent Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Bipin Patel, was
acquitted because of a lack of evidence.

Mr Jafri's widow, Zakia, welcomed the verdicts, but was upset at the 36
acquittals.

"This verdict is half justice to me," she said.

India's judicial system is notorious for its delays. The first high-profile
convictions from the 2002 riots came 10 years later when Maya Kodnani - a former
government minister - and 31 others were convicted on charges ranging from
rioting to murder - stemming from an attack in a small industrial town on the
outskirts of Ahmadabad that killed 95 people.

Ms Kodnani, who was sentenced to 28 years in prison, has been free on bail while
her appeal is being heard by a higher court.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the state's chief minister at that time
of the riots, and Muslim leaders and human rights groups say Mr Modi and his
Hindu nationalist government did little to stop the violence, which he has
denied.

India's Supreme Court has said it has found no evidence to prosecute him for the
violence.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     December 16, 2002 Monday Final Edition

Indian elections won on Hindu fears: Nationalist BJP wins in state of Gujarat.
Outcome raises worries that country will abandon tolerant, multi-religious
vision

SOURCE: Washington Post

BYLINE: JOHN LANCASTER

SECTION: News; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

Capitalizing on communal and anti-Muslim passions, hard-line Hindu nationalists
won an overwhelming victory yesterday in a state election seen as a potential
bellwether of India's future as a secular pluralistic nation.

Candidates of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the western state of Gujarat,
which was the locus of fierce communal rioting earlier this year, won 125 of 182
seats in the state legislature, an increase from 117 seats it took in the last
election, in 1998, according to results from Thursday's voting that were tallied
yesterday. The secular Congress Party came in a distant second with 52 seats.

The decisive victory by the BJP, which also heads India's national governing
coalition, appeared to vindicate an electoral strategy that played heavily on
Hindu fears and anger toward Gujarat's Muslim minority in the aftermath of last
spring's riots, which killed more than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims.

BJP's victory also raised fears among secular-minded Indians and religious
minorities that the party will adopt a similar approach in other state elections
and in national elections scheduled for 2004. That, some fear, could threaten
the tolerant multi-religious state envisioned by the founders of modern India,
including Mahatma Gandhi, Gujarat's most famous native son.

"It's definitely going to spell danger for the rest of the country," said Cedric
Prakash, a Jesuit priest who runs a human-rights group in Gujarat's commercial
capital, Ahmedabad.

Some analysts cautioned, however, that the BJP's winning formula in Gujarat
might prove less effective in other settings. They note, for example, that a
large share of Gujarat's population lives in cities, which traditionally have
proved more hospitable to the BJP's core ideology of Hindutva - literally,
"Hindu-ness" - than rural villages where most Indians live. They also note
Gujarat's relative dearth of regional and caste-based parties that in other
states have siphoned support from the BJP.

At the very least, political observers said, the BJP's strong showing will
increase pressure on Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who has cast himself
as a moderate, to adopt a more stridently nationalistic tone, particularly in
dealings with Pakistan. The BJP has lost several state elections in recent years
and has been looking to Gujarat as a laboratory for rebuilding its political
fortunes at the national level.

In conceding defeat yesterday, the head of the Congress Party in Gujarat,
Shankersingh Vaghela, described the BJP win as a victory for Hindutva. "People
are supreme in democracy and they have chosen to go with the communal lines of
the BJP," he said in Ahmedabad.

In particular, the outcome was a victory for Gujarat's chief minister, Narendra
Modi, a swaggering, charismatic figure who has emerged as a leading spokesman of
the BJP's right wing. Modi derived much of his campaign platform from last
spring's riots, India's worst communal violence in a decade, which began when a
Muslim mob torched a train carrying Hindu activists in the town of Godhra,
killing 59 people.

In the riots that followed, Hindu mobs slaughtered Muslims throughout the state,
burning some of them alive; thousands of Muslims have yet to return to their
homes. Last month a citizen's panel that included several retired Supreme Court
judges charged that the anti-Muslim rioters had acted "with the deliberate
connivance and support" of Modi's government.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: AMIT DAVE, REUTERS; Supporters of the ruling Hindu
nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party celebrated election victory on the streets of
Ahmedabad yesterday.; Color Photo: Gujurat's chief minister Narendra Modi
celebrates his victory.

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

                     July 29, 2002 Monday National Edition

Newcomers keep cricket tradition alive: 'Thriving in certain areas'

SOURCE: National Post

BYLINE: Douglas Bell

SECTION: Best of Summer; Toronto: Sports; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 854 words

DATELINE: TORONTO

TORONTO - In 1996 the national cricket teams of India and Pakistan played a
series of matches over several days at the Toronto Cricket, Curling and Skating
Club.

Several thousand fans turned up at a jerry-built stadium that surrounded the
pitch in the otherwise quiet North Toronto neighbourhood. The fans, mostly
ex-pats from the sub-continent, were passionate, but in keeping with the norms
of their adopted homeland, mostly polite. The event came and went with modest,
slightly bemused notice in the local press.

I covered it as a stringer for an Irish newspaper, the angle being that Canada
was pretty much the only place on Earth these two death's-door rivals could play
without causing a riot (India and Pakistan almost never play each other on the
sub-continent due to the potential for violence on a mass scale).

One fact from the reporting that week stayed with me. With the possible
exception of the opening ceremonies at the Montreal Olympics, more people
watched those games than had ever watched any sporting event emanating from
Canada.

Hundreds of millions of Indian and Pakistani cricket fans watched those
eight-hour-plus games through the night and into the early morning, their time.
That a game so sedate, so seemingly irrelevant in the North American context
could generate that kind of reverence and intensity left a lasting impression.

I have followed cricket on and off ever since, both at the international and the
local level. It is a game most people in Toronto see only occasionally, probably
dismissing it as some sort of hangover from our colonial past, a game played by
private school brats at Upper Canada College.

In fact, local cricket is much closer to Toronto's present and future than to
its past. More than 1,000 registered cricketers play for 34 teams spread over
four divisions of escalating skill and competition at 17 venues around the city.

The vast majority of players are so-called new Canadians, most from the
sub-continent and the West Indies, traditional cricketing powers which, along
with England, South Africa and Australia -- matched lately by Zimbabwe, New
Zealand and Sri Lanka-- dominate the sport.

A blazing Saturday afternoon on the vast playing fields of Sunnybrook Park saw
three games played simultaneously, each involving the Yorkshire cricket club, a
fixture on the Toronto cricket scene since the league started in 1920.

It is a pleasing, idylic scene. The pitch is bordered by majestic oak and elm
trees that sway in the hot summer winds; families picnic on tarps around the
field's oval border. During breaks in the play, an outfield player flies a kite
over the heads of the combatants. At the south end of the pitch, a couple of
elderly Pakistani fans dressed in kurtus, traditional light white cotton suits,
alternately take drags off a houka pipe, sweet-smelling smoke wafting over their
heads.

I find myself chatting with one of the Yorkshire players, Rajwinder Randhawa, an
East Indian Sikh who points out some of the game's subtleties, punctuating his
explanations with shouts of encouragement at his teammates-- "Shabas! Shabas!"

Without waiting to be asked, he whispers, "it means well done."

He is wearing canary yellow Nautica shorts, his Kirpan held in a jewelled
scabbard tucked into the waistband beside his cellphone holster. He excuses
himself to go into bat. He removes the cellphone. "It's the only time I can get
rid of the bloody thing."

The knife stays.

Bruce Maxwell also plays for Yorkshire. He is the only "Anglo Saxon" in sight.
He started out playing school-boy cricket at Lakefield College, one of the old
line boys' private schools in Ontario. He teaches now at Holy Trinity, a private
school in Richmond Hill. He bemoans the lack of interest in the game among the
sorts of Canadians he went to school with.

"I coach at a club in Ajax and of the 30 or so kids involved, every one is from
outside the country. The sport is dying in the private school system, but it's
thriving in certain areas of the public system."

He shakes his head, bemused by the sport's current predicament. Later, he goes
in to bat and quickly scores 10 or so runs.

"Shabas! Bruce, shabas!"

I meet Mahamad Iqbal, who plays with Yorkshire's top side but is out for a bit
of practise with the scrubs. Until recently, he played county cricket in
England, the sport's version of major league baseball. He has also played
internationally for Pakistan. It is a bit like running into Carlos Delgado
moonlighting with Toronto's inter-county team at Christie Pits.

He is a landed immigrant and is desperate to play for Canada at the World Cup
next February in South Africa. "But I must wait for the citizenship," he says,
shrugging his shoulders and smiling warmly. (That Canada is playing in the World
Cup at all is considered a huge upset. The Cricket World Cup draws hundreds of
millions of fans, second only to soccer's World Cup.)

Up to 90% of Canada's players are drawn from the Toronto District Cricket
Association. When they suit up next February, it will be a far cry from their
kite-flying Saturday afternoons at Sunnybrook Park.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Kevin Frayer, The Canadian Press; There are more
than 1,000 cricket players registered and playing for 34 Toronto-area teams,
which meet at 17 venues throughout the city.

TYPE: Sports

               Copyright 2002 National Post, All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                     December 16, 2002 Monday Final Edition

Result may threaten secular India: Anti-Muslim fears exploited in region where
1,000 died in religious riots: HARDLINE HINDUS SWEEP GANDHI'S BIRTHPLACE STATE

SOURCE: The Washington Post

SECTION: World; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: New Delhi

Capitalizing on communal and anti-Muslim passions, hardline Hindu nationalists
won an overwhelming victory Sunday in a state election seen as a potential
bellwether of India's future as a secular, pluralistic nation.

Candidates of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the western state of Gujarat,
which was the centre of fierce communal rioting earlier this year, won 125 of
182 seats in the state legislature, an increase from 117 seats it took in the
last election, in 1998, according to results from Thursday's voting that were
tallied Sunday. The secular Congress Party came in a distant second with 52
seats.

The decisive victory by the BJP, which also heads India's national governing
coalition, appeared to vindicate an electoral strategy that played heavily on
Hindu fears and anger toward Gujarat's Muslim minority after last spring's
riots, which claimed the lives of more than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims.

BJP's victory also raised fears among secular-minded Indians and religious
minorities that the party will adopt a similar approach in other state elections
and in national elections scheduled for 2004. That, some fear, could threaten
the tolerant multi-religious state envisioned by the founders of modern India,
including Mahatma Gandhi, Gujarat's most famous native son.

"It's definitely going to spell danger for the rest of the country," said Cedric
Prakash, a Jesuit priest who runs a human rights group in Gujarat's commercial
capital, Ahmedabad.

Some analysts cautioned, however, that the BJP's winning formula in Gujarat
might prove less effective in other settings. They note, for example, that a
large share of Gujarat's population lives in cities, which traditionally have
proved more hospitable to the BJP's core ideology of Hindutva -- literally,
"Hindu-ness" -- than rural villages where most Indians live. They also note
Gujarat's relative dearth of regional and caste-based parties that in other
states have siphoned support from the BJP.

For those reasons, said Mahesh Rangarajan, an independent political analyst in
New Delhi, the appeal of the BJP's ideology "may not be a winning card
elsewhere, but it will still be a card."

At the very least, political observers said, the BJP's strong showing will
increase pressure on Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who has cast himself
as a moderate within the party, to adopt a more stridently nationalistic tone,
particularly in dealings with Pakistan. The BJP has lost several state elections
in recent years and has been looking to Gujarat as a laboratory for rebuilding
itself politically.

The election outcome was seen as a victory for Gujarat's chief minister,
Narendra Modi, a swaggering, charismatic figure who has emerged as a leading
spokesman of the BJP's right wing. Modi derived much of his campaign platform
from last spring's riots, India's worst communal violence in a decade, which
began when a Muslim mob torched a train carrying Hindu activists in the town of
Godhra, killing 59 people.

In the riots that followed, Hindu mobs slaughtered Muslims throughout the state,
burning some of them alive; thousands of Muslims have yet to return to their
homes.

Last month, echoing findings by Human Rights Watch and other independent
monitors, a citizens' panel that included several retired Supreme Court judges
charged that the anti-Muslim rioters had acted "with the deliberate connivance
and support" of Modi's government.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reuters; Supporters of the ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya
Janata Party (BJP) celebrate election victory on the streets of Ahmedabad on
Sunday.; Photo: AP; Narendra Modi

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Star

                             March 1, 2014 Saturday

No change in policy on communal riots in Gujarat: US

SECTION: Vol. 19 No. 59

LENGTH: 428  words


The United States continues to express concern about communal violence in India,
the Obama Administration has said, strongly refuting reports that it has gone
soft on the Gujarat communal riots in 2002 and the alleged role of its Chief
Minister Narendra Modi.

"I wouldn't characterise our assessment that way. I think you'll find if you
review the text that we're very clear about our concerns about several episodes
of communal violence across India," US State Department Spokesperson Jen Psaki
told reporters on Thursday.

Psaki was responding to a question on the latest annual Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices released by Secretary of State John Kerry.

"If Modi was mentioned in previous human rights reports for India by name, and
(why) he is not mentioned in this one," she was asked.

Paski said that there is no change in the US policy on communal riots in Gujarat
about a decade ago. Both the annual reports of the 2011 and 2012 mention Modi in
its report but it no way refers to his role in the communal riots.

The latest report said: "Civil society activists continued to express concern
about the Gujarat government's failure to protect the population or arrest many
of those responsible for communal violence in 2002 that resulted in the killings
of more than 1,200 persons, the majority of whom were Muslim, although there was
progress in several court cases," the report said.

"The Gujarat government appointed the Nanavati-Mehta Commission to investigate
the 2002 violence. In December, the Gujarat government granted an extension for
the 21st time, extending the commission to June 30, 2014," it said.

The State Department said the Gujarat government withdrew its consent to seek
the death penalty for former minister Maya Kodnani and others convicted in the
2002 Naroda Patiya violence that killed 97 Muslims.

The investigating agency questioned the Gujarat government's move in a petition
in the Supreme Court in June.

Kodnani, the first senior politician to be convicted for 2002 violence, was
sentenced to a 28-year jail term for her involvement in the post-Godhra riots
case.

The report also talked about last year's communal violence in the Muzaffarnagar
area of Uttar Pradesh that led to 65 reported deaths, 42,000 persons displaced,
and hundreds of injuries during the months of August and September.

"The violence started with a sexual harassment incident between a Muslim man and
a Hindu Jat woman and escalated following a political meeting of officials and
others from more than 300 local villages during the weekend of September 7-8,"
it said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 30, 2012
                                 First Edition

32 found guilty over deadly riots;
INDIA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 155 words


An Indian court convicted a former state government minister and 31 other people
in connection with deadly anti-Muslim riots that shook the western state of
Gujarat in 2002.

The violence, which killed more than 1,100 people, almost all Muslims, began
after a train fire that killed 60 Hindu pilgrims. Hindu mobs, convinced Muslims
started the fire, went on the rampage burning Muslim homes and businesses.

Rights groups and survivors have accused the state government, controlled by the
Hindu right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, of not doing enough to stop the
violence. The convictions Wednesday, on charges ranging from rioting to murder,
stemmed from an attack in Naroda Patiya, a small industrial town on the
outskirts of Ahmadabad, Gujarat's capital, that killed 95 people. Those
convicted included Maya Kodnani, a state legislator at the time who later became
minister of education and child welfare in the Gujarat government. AP

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Congress links IM birth to Gujarat riots, BJP hits back

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, July 22 -- The political slanging match between the Congress and the
BJP became shriller on Sunday after the ruling party alleged that home-grown
terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM) was an outcome of the 2002 Gujarat riots.
The BJP hit back saying such an insinuation was reprehensible even as both the
parties accused each other of playing the communal card.

The current spat started on Sunday morning when Congress spokesperson, Shakeel
Ahmed, fired the first salvo. He wrote on micro-blogging site twitter: "Indian
Mujahideen was formed after the Gujarat riots, says NIA in its chargesheet. Even
now BJP and RSS will not desist from their communal politics?"

Ahmed was referring to the chargesheet filed by the National Investigation
Agency (NIA) on Wednesday last against five suspected operatives of IM for
hatching criminal conspiracy to carry out terror strikes in India.

He said, "This (2002 riots) was the reason behind the creation of Indian
Mujahideen. If they forsake their communal politics, outfits like IM will cease
to exist. The communal politics of BJP has led to a chain reaction. They should
give up such politics. The main of communalism in the country is RSS and BJP.
Those who want to stop communal politics should build pressure on BJP and RSS".

The BJP leaders hit back at Ahmed as his statements were not only against their
party, but were clearly aimed at Gujarat CM Narendra Modi. BJP leaders Ravi
Shankar Prasad, Venkaiah Naidu and Meenakshi Lekhi, countered Ahmed, saying the
IM's origin was linked to Pakistan. Deputy Leader of BJP in Rajya Sabha
Ravishankar Prasad said, "There is this competition among Congress spokespersons
and leaders to deliberately communalise the political scenario, as they have no
answer to corruption, mal-governance, price rise, unemployment, the sense of
suffering the people have."

Prasad countered Ahmed's statements on IM saying, "Is it not a fact that IM has
links with Pakistan-based terrorist outfits? Is it not a fact that much before
2002, there was SIMI with designs to usher in terror attacks in India. These are
too well known. Please don't play with national security. This politics for vote
bank to deliberately stoke communalism is reprehensible."

BJP spokesperson Lekhi tweeted, "CON's (Congress) political alliances with
similar outfits hv preceded Gujarat an excuse to justify such a mindset.
Alliance with Muslim league, MIM, TNMMK!"

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 29, 2013 Tuesday

High time for assertive policy on Bangladesh

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Oct. 29 -- History has a dangerous way of repeating itself in the
haunted country of Bangladesh with years of military rule since its traumatic
birth in 1971. The fresh 60-hour shutdown, called by the Opposition Bangla
Nationalist Party (BNP) demanding a caretaker government, shows yet again the
bitter political rivalry between prime minister Sheikh Hasina and BNP leader
Khaleda Zia that has kept the country on permanent turmoil. Hasina has offered a
national government in the run-up to the general elections slated by January
2014. Khaleda is bent upon a neutral caretaker government-a provision long
abolished from the constitution by the present regime.

The sordid power struggle has only fuelled Islamic radicalism over the years
once perpetuated once by the military rule. Khaleda has sided with the country's
largest fundamentalist party, Jamaat-e-Islami, and the more radical
Hefazat-e-Islam, an outfit swearing by Taliban-like social system and largely
responsible for the present violence. Adding to the turmoil is a war tribunal
set up by Hasina to try genocide cases and seen by the Opposition as proof of an
anti-Islam government. Flexing of political muscles on the streets has become
perilously frequent despite a notable economic growth and a large population
vouching for moderate Islam.

The messy democracy must be brought on track and the two major parties made to
talk. The growing radicalisation of Bangladesh politics has remained a worrying
factor for India, probably the only regional country that can exercise some
influence on the not-so-hostile Hasina regime. New Delhi needs to take note of
the turmoil and ensure that Islamists do not get an upper hand during election.
Islamic insurgency, imported from across the border, has already created a
dangerous situation in Assam and elsewhere, often triggering communal riots.
India must step in; an assertive, if not aggressive, diplomacy is the need of
the hour.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             April 14, 2014 Monday

Time to Put the Leash on Preachers of Hate

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, April 14 -- The Election Commission (EC) was constrained to take action
against BJP leader Amit Shah and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Mohammed Azam Khan
for their inflammatory speeches while campaigning in Uttar Pradesh. The
commission has asked the state government to file criminal cases against them.
They have also been banned from addressing election meetings in the state. Of
course, they can claim that their right to speech and freedom of expression have
been curtailed but it will not carry conviction with the masses. What they did
was to cause enmity between communities and thereby derive political advantage.
Had they been allowed to persist with their campaign style, it would have led to
communal clashes, which are what they wanted to polarise the voters.

Though the BJP and the SP are in the dock, the conduct of other parties like the
Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress has not been any better, at least in
UP, which accounts for the single largest number of seats in the Lok Sabha. If
the BSP had made an ill-advised comparison with the Partition riots, the
Congress' Imran Masood threatened that BJP's prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi would be cut to pieces. So abhorrent was the political discourse
that it would have caused a bad reputation to the democratic process in India.
Unfortunately, parties like the Congress and the BJP did little to prevent the
gutter politics that their leaders indulged in.

Had the political parties taken deterrent action against those who tried to pit
one community against another, the EC wouldn't have been forced to crack the
whip against them. Political parties should evolve a code of conduct for their
leaders so that they show utmost restraint while addressing public meetings.
There is nothing more dangerous than an unrestrained tongue as the history of
successive riots India has witnessed bears out. One silver line in all this is
that the young voters, who play a major role in these elections, are unlikely to
be influenced by such abominable campaigns. They should also make clear that
such characters have no place in the democratic system.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Why torch my bus?

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, May 11 -- With grim humour, the Karnataka State Transport Corporation
has launched a campaign to save its buses.

Under Rajendra Kumar Kataria, managing director of the transport service, the
department on Tuesday organised a "funeral procession" of buses that were
charred during the recent agitation by the garment factory workers.

Early last month, the city was nearly brought to a standstill for a few days
when the workers began a protest against the new Provident Fund rules. KSRTC's
seven buses were torched during the agitation and many more were damaged.

At Tuesday's event, named 'It's My Bus', KP Ratna, General Secretary of the
Karnataka Garment Worker Union, apologised for the loss. "We realise that it is
our responsibility to safeguard public property," she said. "At the same time,
we would also like our grievances to be redressed."

While the immediate trigger for the event was the losses at the workers'
agitation, Kataria says that buses are the first targets of any riot.

"If India is following a Make-In- India campaign, why are they adopting a
Damage-In-India approach? Riots are not exclusive to Karnataka alone. Take for
instance the buses that were burnt during the Patel agitation in Gujarat and the
various Jat agitations. These buses could have served a few more years if they
weren't torched. The public are funding these buses by paying tax, and if they
destroy these buses, it is ultimately their own loss," Kataria told City
Express.

This campaign, where the charred buses were on display also at Kempegowda Bus
Station on Tuesday at 11 am, was to create awareness among the public against
burning buses during protests. The event was a mark of respect for the buses
that were rendered immobile during the protests. The event was attended by State
Transport Minister Ramalinga Reddy.

The burnt buses were towed from Peenya bus station to Kempegowda Bus Station
(KBS). In two days, they will be towed to the Mysuru bus station from KBS. KSRTC
plans to document this ceremony and then screen it at various bus stops across
the state, and subsequently the country, to prevent bus burning in future.

At KBS, the buses were wreathed and decorated in banners carrying slogans such
as "Respect and value your own property" and "Destruction is your own loss."

After the exhibition of the buses, there was a street play and display of
paintings.

Then Ramalinga Reddy addressed the audience: "We are not against protests, but
we request the public to protest peacefully. Only in India it is fashionable to
damage public property to express agitation. It is akin to throwing stones at
one's own house."

People were requested to sign a petition supporting the cause.

Our bus was on the way to Shivamogga via Jalahalli when the garment factory
workers' agitation started. The mob started pelting stones and I suffered a few
minor injuries. There were 20-30 passengers who were made to alight while the
bus was set on fire, and the passengers then had to board a different bus.

Syed Khalander, Bus driver

We are here to apologise for our mistake. We realise that it is our
responsibility to safeguard public property. At the same time, we would also
like our grievances to be redressed. K P Ratna, General secretary, Karnataka
Garment Workers Union

Like any other initiative, this campaign will take some time to gain momentum.
However, the first step in the right direction has been taken, and there is a
long way to go. A Sheriff, Visitor at the event

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Assam riots are the result of hatred campaign of communal elements ' Ram
Puniyani

LENGTH: 1298 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Sept. 13 -- Keeping silent on hatred terms is proving costly these
days. For the refugees who migrated to Assam to earn their bread, the communal
elements started using two different terms yesterday to create hatred. Its
result is before our eyes in the form of communal riots.

This was disclosed by noted writer and social activist Mr. Ram Puniyani at a
meeting organized by Elders' Think Tank, at Mahboob Hussain Jigar Hall in Siasat
Office. He told that the non-Muslims who enter Indian territory are termed as
refugees or immigrants by the communal elements whereas for such Muslims they
call infiltrators. This created hatred among the communities which resulted in
communal riots. Mr. Ram Puniyani told that we show see them with the spects of
humanity. Those who spread communal riots do so by spreading hatred to fulfill
their political motives.

The meeting was presided over by Mr. Zahid Ali Khan, Editor Siasat. The other
speakers were Mr. Zaheeruddin Ali Khan, Managing Editor, Siasat, Mr. Irfan
Engineer, Mr. Syed Aziz Pasha, former M.P., Mr. P. Madhu, former M.P., Mr. Hamid
Mohammed Khan, President of MPJ and others.

Commenting on the communal riots of Assam, Mr. Ram Puniyani told that more than
four lakh Muslims have been dislodged. They are afraid of going back to their
homes. He told that the number of dislocated persons is the largest after the
independence. He said that so long as we don't find out the root cause, we won't
be able to eradicate this evil. He stressed the need to send back the refugees
to their houses and to create confidence among them for their security. He told
that Congress is the worst political party. Its objective is to save its power
even if it has to sacrifice any thing. He told that for all these incidents, we
are responsible because we exhibited carelessness towards these conspiracies. He
revealed that there are 13.4% Muslims in India but in communal riots, 90% of the
persons suffer.

In order to fulfill the requirements of 'Oil' America linked the Muslims with
so-called Islamic terrorism. India is also taking its advantage. He told that
anyone who crosses the border is not an infiltrator. It is the fire of hunger
which forces him to cross the border. He stressed the need to communicate the
issue of Assam riots to International media. He told that we won't be able to
succeed in our attempts unless we struggle jointly to eradicate the feelings of
hatred from the minds and hearts of the people.

He declared Assam Gana Parishad as the supporter of R.S.S. Communal feelings
were aroused right from the reign of AGP Govt. in Assam. He appealed to the
human rights activists to pressurize the Govt. of India to convene the special
meeting of National Integration Council.

Mr. Zahid Ali Khan, speaking on this occasion told that the donations collected
from the people of Hyderabad would b utilized for promoting education in riot
hit areas of Assam. On receiving the information about the desperate condition
of the Muslim in Assam, Mr. Zaheeruddin Ali Khan, Managing Editor, Siasat
visited Assam and elicited the details about their immediate requirements. He
informed that after consulting the other members, he will write letters to Home
Ministry and Prime Minister of India demanding to convene the special meeting of
National Integration Council. He told that the nature of earlier communal riots
was quite different fro the communal riots of Assam. In the present communal
riots of Assam, the Muslims were targeted declaring them as non-mulkis, which is
a unique precedent. It gives rise to apprehensions that in future also such
situations could arise any where in India.

We should take appropriate steps for not recurring such events. Mr. Zahid Ali
Khan told that Hyderabad has a unique place due to its Ganga-Jamuna
civilization, humility and noble character. There is a need to popularize this
kind of atmosphere throughout the country.

Mentioning the events of post cessation of Hyderabad state, he said that Govt.
of India had appealed to all the citizens to deposit their arms with the Govt.
After enacting the Bodoland pact, arms were not taken back from the Bodos. As a
result of it, Bodos are targeting the Muslims with there arms.

Speaking on this occasion, Mr. Irfan Engineer told that the conditions of the
relief camps is very pathetic. He blamed the dilly-dallying policy of Govt. of
India for it. He also blamed the Central Govt. for promoting extremist
activities. He told that there is a need to review Assam communal riots in the
light of history. Everybody in Assam is a non-Assamese. Someone is a Bengali,
the other one is a Bihari or Oriya. He pointed out that on the occasion of the
partition of India in 1947, the predominately Muslim populated district was
given to East Pakistan. After this, opportunities were provided for more than
once for the immigrants of Bangladesh but the situation didn't change. From 1951
to 1961, more than 2,90,000 Muslims were forcibly sent to East Pakistan. The
then Minister, Mr. Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed had protested to Govt. of India against
this move. During the war of 1971, new refugees reached Assam. Instead of
solving the regional bias, Govt. of India started the campaign to arm the
people. Mr. Irfan Engineer told that in 2008 large scale communal riots were
started.

Mr. Zaheeruddin Ali Khan in his speech told that the present situation in Assam
is very deplorable. He felt the need to organize a national level conference of
secular leaders in order to improve the atmosphere in Assam and also to create
national integration. He informed that he has negotiated with some tribal
leaders. They are prepared to organize such a conference.

He told that whenever communal riots occur in any part of the country, human
rights activists and other social workers raised their voice on the issues
related to the Muslims. We are grateful to them. Mr. Zaheeruddin Ali Khan
disclosed that the literacy percentage among the Muslims of Assam is 39 whereas
it is 70% for the non-Muslims. The innocence and ignorance of the Assamese
Muslims is such that they consider voting in favour of a Muslim candidate as the
visa to go to Heaven.

While reviewing the basis of Assam communal riots it was revealed that there are
40,000 RSS workers and 30,000 Bajrang Dal activists actively engaged in Assam.
Mr. Aziz Pasha in his speech told that Assam has inscribed the largest migration
of Assamese history which is a black spot. Despite serious conditions, Central
Govt. didn't take any concrete measures to rehabilitate the refugees. Mr. Aziz
Pasha demanded the Govt. to seize all the weapons from the Bodos. He said that
there is a need to continue struggle till the rehabilitation work is completely
ensured. Non-rehabilitation of the dislodged persons will communicate a wrong
message to the people of India.

Mr. P. Madhu, former M.P told that there are rumours that organized efforts are
being made to spread hatred and incitement through posters and pamphlets.

If the communal riots of Assam are reviewed scrupulously it will be revealed
that behind these disturbances, BJP and its allied parties are involved in these
activities. He told that the tribals of Kokrajhar were incited which resulted in
the outbreak of communal riots.

Mr. Hamid Mohammed Khan, President of Movement for Peace and Justice also spoke
on this occasion. He condemned these incidents and expressed the need to
accelerate the rehabilitation works.

Mr. Mohammed Aliuddin Quadri, Secretary of Elders' Think Tank conducted the
meeting. Mr. Osman Bin Mohammed Al-Hajiri presented a shawl to Mr. Ram Puniyani.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

Judge Who Convicted Modi's Minister In Riots Case Now Fears for Her Family

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Aug. 5 -- Irony has many faces. That a former woman judge, a
standardbearer of justice, should fear for her life and that of her family in a
state ruled by a woman Chief Minister, is one of them.

The former judge, Jyotsna Yagnik, who convicted 32 people - including Maya
Kodnani, who had been part of Chief Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet - for the
Naroda Patiya massacre of 97 Muslims in Ahmedabad during the 2002 communal riots
is today fearful for the safety of her family.

She is being subjected to mental torture through threatening letters and
telephone calls at all times of the day while the Anandiben Patel-led Bharatiya
Janata Party government has failed to provide an adequate response. A picture of
dignity in the face of great mental strain, Yagnik, known for her unerring
judicial instincts even in taxing cases remains unfazed, even defiant. "It was
my duty to inform the authorities about the threats and I have done that. I
refuse to beg or grovel before anyone," she told this correspondent on Wednesday
night.

Yagnik who has been a POTA judge as well as heard such cases as the serial bomb
blast case was provided Z category security in 2012 which was scaled down to Y
category in 2014.

Immediately after she began receiving threatening letters and calls, she sent a
confidential letter to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) appointed by the
Supreme Court to probe the worst incidents of 2002 enumerating the systematic
attempts being made to terrorise her family and her."I even passed on the
telephone numbers from which the [threatening] calls were coming but to no
avail. I do not blame the SIT. They are just a forwarding post-office. It is the
state government which has to act, and unfortunately, there has been no
response," she pointed out.

It is not as if the former judge has failed to keep the state authorities
informed of the threats."I had met the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) of the
Gujarat government to inform him [about what is going on] but there does not
seem to have been any response," she said.

In August 2012, Yagnik held Kodnani, Babu Bajrangi of the Bajrang Dal and 3o
others guilty of the Naroda Patiya massacre. In her judgment and subsequent
sentencing orders, Yagnik was scathing about the role of Kodnani:

"[She] has been proved to be the kingpin of the entire communal riot and one of
the principal conspirators who has actively instigated the rioters and has
abetted them to form unlawful assembly to execute the conspiracy hatched under
her leadership with other co-conspirators. ..

"The gruesome and barbaric act of the accused and more particularly those seven
accused who have been mentioned herein above, have crossed all limits of
inhumanity. Their dastardly acts by killing as many as 96 victims by burning
them alive at the site of the Muslim chawls itself is horrifying .

"The submission of [Kodnani, as part of her request for leniency in sentencing]
that she is a victim of politics has been pleaded for the first time without any
background created in the cross-examination . As a matter of fact, this Court
has observed in its judgment that [she] was tremendously favoured by the then
investigating agencies. All care, at the cost of the duty of I.O. and even the
interest of the victims of crime, was taken to see to it that, the involvement
of [Kodnani] does not come on the books. This fact, comes in the way to believe
that [Kodnani] was ever a victim of any politics.

"It needs to be noted that at that time, [Kodnani] has played a role of one of
the principal conspirators and a kingpin of the communal riot. India is a
secular state and such offence by the elected member of the constitutional body
needs to be viewed by the Courts very seriously where disharmony, hatred and
enmity based on religion was created by instigation and where such commission of
the crimes were abetted by A-37.

"The communal hatred displayed by communally surcharged mob on account of
instigation of accused like [Kodnani], [Babu Bajrangi] and participation of the
remaining . on account of some vested interest who wants division of society on
communal bases resulted into the massacre."

The appeal of Kodnani and other Naroda Patiya convicts is due to be heard by the
Gujarat High Court this month.

Yagnik, who now runs the Unitedworld School of Law here, also spoke about the
threats she was facing to reporters who had come for a briefing on a seminar she
is organising on Corporate Social Responsibility.

Yagnik mentioned the recent issue of some convicts approaching High Court judges
when their appeals were pending."If they can approach High Court judges, you can
imagine under what pressure a trial court judge [like myself] would have
delivered the judgment."

Recently, Justices M.R. Shah and K.S. Jhaveri of the Gujarat High Court opted
out of a hearing after some of those convicted in the Naroda Patiya case tried
to contact them, it is learnt.

-Courtesy "The Wire"

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday

Silent majority in govt. wants 13 A in full: DEW

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, June 25 -- A host of senior government Ministers representing the
left and the SLFP said yesterday that the government had a silent majority to
defeat any attempt to curtail the 13th Amendment. "There is a silent majority
within this government which is not depicted and that majority stands with us.
We are speaking on behalf of them and have gathered here on this common platform
to represent their views" the Ministers said.

Ministers Rajitha Senaratne and D. E. W. Gunasekara during yesterday's news
briefing. Pic by Nisal Baduge

Addressing the news briefing, SLFP Ministers Rajitha Senaratne, Reginald Cooray
and leftist party leaders Vasudewa Nanayakkara, Prof. Tissa Witharana and
Chandrasiri Gajadeera explained each and every facet of the 13th Amendment and
countered all 'fears' against it.

"These are ghosts and 'goni billas' that are created by these chauvinist forces
who can't comprehend the 13th Amendment. These were the very same forces that
were against the Tamil language being given an equal status. It took bloodshed
and 40 years for us to realize the vices of this move," Minister Tissa Vitharana
said.

The former head of the All-party Representative's committee (APRC) Prof.
Vitharana said those against the 13th Amendment were ignoring the root causes of
the political problem in the country.

"They fear that the TNA would go on a separatist agenda, but the separatist
sentiment culminating in the rise of the LTTE was exactly because the Tamils
were alienated repeatedly. This is the exact situation that the tampering of the
13A would create" he said.

Vitharana reiterated that the Provincial Council system had not failed and was
the most potent method of devolving power to the villages.

Minister Rajitha Senaratne alluding to Minister Wimal Weerawansa said the JVP
during the Indo Lanka accord had threatened all those who would go to vote at
the PC elections with death and even went on to state that the people would have
to get visas to travel from one province to another.

"They murdered people who were for the provincial council system even going to
the extent of saying that anyone who voted would be killed. But millions of
people voted during the elections. That's the mandate given by the people. What
more of a mandate do you want?. This has been in existence for 25 years now and
the people against it are against it out of pure jealousy, they don't want to
give the North what they enjoy in the South. The rest of the fears were ghosts
created by the chauvinist forces which in the end proved today to be utter lies"
he said.

Speaking on the argument relating to the Indian involvement in the making of the
13th Amendment, Minister D.E.W Gunasekara said the Indo Lanka accord was a
culmination of debates that began in the 1920's and rejected the notion that it
was forced upon the country by India.

"SWRD Bandaranaike wanted a federal system way back in 1926. The debate began
thereafter leading up to the languages act, the Banda-Chelvanayagam accord, the
Dudley-Chelvanayagam accord among many others. The debate took a different turn
only after 1983 riots with India being compelled to intervene leading to the
culmination of the Indo Lanka accord in 1988" he said.

Speaking further the Ministers said the LTTE did not raise a finger against any
of those against the 13th Amendment today.

"Not a finger was raised against them and the LTTE and the JVP both killed only
progressive people. Racists were not killed because each side thrived on the
existence of the other" he said.

Minister and SLFPer Reginald Cooray said that the today many forces had moved
away from the need to a political solution, which was the root cause of the
conflict.

"With the end of the war there was euphoria all around and everyone ignored the
root of the problem moving away from the need to address the political problem.
Racism, extremism, and the tribal mentality is the best tape to be playing and
is the oldest tape that has been played. We have to learn from our past
mistakes," he said. "These heroes who scream against the international community
within this country don't know an atom about how political systems work. Every
country in this world has devolved power to a certain extent and that is a
must," he said.

A charged up Vasudewa Nanayakkara said the only reason many forces are against
the implementation of the 13th amendment is due to the fact that they could not
face an election in the North.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Strengthen first line of defence: The police

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 23 -- India's police forces are inadequate, under-equipped and
ill-trained. They function on a shoe-string budget and are subject to political
interference. Law and order, therefore, becomes the main victim

A riot in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar on September 7 led to the killing of a
television reporter and 50 others. The violence had its roots in an incident of
eve-teasing that happened in August. Two Hindu brothers from another town had
killed a Muslim boy who had molested their sister. This led to a violent
backlash which claimed the lives of the brothers as well.

Ironically, the bloodshed began a day after the Union Government issued an alert
to seven States, including Uttar Pradesh, over fears of communal polarisation
and hostility ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Uttar Pradesh had already
seen a spike in communal violence since the Samajwadi Party returned to power in
March 2012. At least 95 people have been killed in 50 (as per State record) to
110 (as per the Intelligence Bureau) clashes.

If a disease is not treated in time, it is bound to aggravate. The same is true
of controlling riots. Security personnel on the spot have to be given a free
hand and there can be no remote control which tells them from the shadows how to
handle the situation. Having said this, I must hasten to add that one does not
plead that the police be allowed to use indiscriminate force.

The standard response after the riot is over is to set up an inquiry committee
which decides on the basis of affidavits filed before it. Sometimes, it takes
decades for an inquiry to be completed - for example, the inquiry into the Babri
structure demolition took 15 years. There is no time limit for a judicial
inquiry, as the inquiry officer may take umbrage if he or she is told to
complete the investigation within a given time-frame. Also, the result of all
these inquiries, despite the visits of VIPs from Delhi, is often nothing at all.

Human nature is fragile. One cannot predict what will be the tinder fuse. The
Government feels that the universal remedy to any law and order problem is the
policeman, but he is told not to use force or open fire, especially on rioters
in a communally-charged situation. This is because the ruling party fears that
it will lose its vote-bank.

August Vollmer, who was the first police chief of Berkeley, California, and also
a leading figure in the development of the field of criminal justice in the US,
had rightly said in his book, The Police in Modern Society: "The citizen expects
police officers to have the wisdom of Solomon, the courage of David, the
strength of Samson, the patience of Job, the leadership of Moses, the kindness
of the Good Samaritan, the faith of Daniel, the tolerance of the Carpenter of
Nazareth (Jesus Christ), and, finally, an intimate knowledge of every branch of
the natural, biological, and social sciences. If he had all of these, he might
be a good policeman."

But it is ultimately for the Government to decide what is in the best interests
of the country. Communal riots in India are not an infrequent occurrence. Yet
after six decades of Independence, the Government appears to be clueless about
how best to handle such incidents. Serious ailments require intensive treatments
and surgical operations - but the importance of these is forgotten in the quest
for vote-banks.

The police force forms the first line of defence in any riot situation. But
neither Uttar Pradesh nor any other State has examined if it has an adequate
police force and good training facilities so as to ensure that security
personnel are well-prepared to deal with the complex problem of communal
violence. Uttar Pradesh, in fact, has one of the lowest police to population
ratios - just 74 policemen for every 1,00,000 persons, as against the United
Nations norms of 240 policemen for every 1,00,000 persons. And these figures
refer to the total sanctioned strength of the police force. In other words, they
include security personnel assigned to VIP duty. With police protection now
being seen as a status symbol by many, the Uttar Pradesh Government is spending
a whopping Rs 120crore of public money every year to provide security cover to
around 1,500 VIPs, as per official records.

Former Union Minister for Home Affairs P Chidambaram had publicly admitted in no
uncertain terms that the country's police forces were "inadequate and
ill-equipped". He said, "We need to at least double the police strength and
create necessary infrastructure to impart them quality training to improve the
policing in the country. The police-population ratio for the country is about
130 per 1,00,000 persons, which is lower than the international norms".

At a time when communal riots and even other crimes like murder and atrocities
against lower castes are abnormally high in Uttar Pradesh - it often registers
the highest number of criminal cases - the State's police force has only
1,49,168 personnel out of the 3,68,260 sanctioned posts as of January 1, 2011.
It means there is an overwhelming vacancy of 60 per cent in the police force. On
that same date, the nationwide police vacancy rate was 25 per cent with 5,01,069
posts of the sanctioned strength of 20,64,370 lying empty.

Forget about additional personnel, the police forces do not even have the
budgets to maintain the existing numbers. For instance, a senior police officer
from Uttar Pradesh told me that when an honest station house officer pointed out
that he had no money to get his police jeep repaired, tyres replaced and buy
petrol, he was reprimanded by his seniors for not being able to manage such
small matters.

Once, when I was a district police chief, I had taken up the matter of
increasing the stationary grant and the prisoners' diet allowance from two
rupees per month and 75p daily respectively, I was curtly told that I had to
manage with whatever money was available. I sent letters to the police chief
that we needed stationary but there was no reply. Then I sent a stinker saying
that the letter was being written on the last piece of paper in the office, and
no correspondence should be expected from my station till we get the stationary.
My demands were met eventually but my seniors gave me a lot of grief for my
conduct.

Clearly, things have not changed since my time. There is a saying in Punjabi and
Hindi that you get sweetness in proportion to the sugar you add. Similarly, you
get the police force you deserve. The communal problem in India is becoming
worse by the day, with the Government, both at the Central and State levels,
only indulging in verbal diarrhoea. Transfers and suspensions of IPS or IAS
officials are no solutions; they garble the issue and mislead the people. The
unity of the country comes first and it cannot be sacrificed at the altar of
vote-bank politics. The Government should know that its actions speak louder
than words.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

'Riots content at NIC meet poor'

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: India


India, Sept. 27 -- A meeting of the National Integration Council was held on
September 23, 2013 after a gap of two years.

Issues such as terrorism, Maoist insurgency, activities of groups working
against national interest was not on the agenda. The communal situation after
the Muzaffarnagar riots, increased offences against women and SCs & STs were on
the agenda of the meeting. These are also important subjects. Whereas there was
a complete consensus on the final draft resolution passed, there could be a
little basis for a contrarian opinion on the offences against women, Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes.

The discussion on the communally tense situation in India, however, was
inadequate in content. The anatomy of the riot that took place in Muzaffarnagar
was insufficiently discussed. The one-sided violence which took place in
Kishtwar was not properly analysed. The Chief Minister of UP was keen to pass
the buck and invent conspiracies as to who engineered the riots. The Chief
Minister of Jammu & Kashmir was not concerned with a large section of the local
population which has lost confidence in his Government. He preferred trading
charges rather than analyse as to what went wrong. Both the Chief Ministers
indulged in self-certification of how well they controlled the communal
violence.

Both Kishtwar and Muzaffarnagar have a lesson in store for us. In Kishtwar,
violence started in the earlier part of the day. A Minister of the Government
was stationed in Kishtwar. Mobs raising anti-national slogans, carrying
anti-India symbols attacked members of a community and their business
establishments. Finally, the Army came in the evening and normalcy was restored.
There is still no answer as to why anarchy prevailed during all that period.

The lesson of Muzaffarnagar is why in communally surcharged atmosphere two
separate congregations of both communities were allowed. Once congregations in
such atmosphere are allowed, speeches become provocative. Affected people play a
victimhood card and it becomes difficult to control the crowds. Rather than
invent conspiracy theories, the Government of Uttar Pradesh should introspect
whether its fundamental mistake was to allow the crowd to collect at both places
which resulted in the situation going out of control.

The sub-text in the National Integration Council meeting was not an analysis of
what happened in Kishtwar or Muzaffarnagar. It appeared to be a road towards the
2014 general elections. It defied logic that efforts were made in this meeting
to link Narendra Modi with Kishtwar and Muzaffarnagar when none existed.

(The writer is Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

In love with her second innings

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: India


India, June 16 -- Actress Sarika, who now will appear in the Amitabh Bachchan
starrer Yudh, says she is more comfortable with new-age storylines that allow
her to challenge her skills. She chatted with Divya Kaushik


The actress who worked as a child artist in many B and C grade films and was
mostly cast as a "westernised girl" in the cinema of 80s, took everyone by
surprise as a Zoroastrian woman who loses her child during the 2002 riots of
India in the film Parzania. The role fetched Sarika the National Film Award for
best actress. The actress, who is all set to make her television debut with the
Amitabh Bachchan starrer Yudh, says that more than her previous work, she likes
films that are being offered to her now. "There are films like Anpadh and Griha
Pravesh, which I am very proud of, but I am not a fan of every film I did during
my early stint as an actor.

I like my second innings more. When I made an entry in Hindi cinema after taking
a break, the change just started to happen. The style of filmmaking was
changing, new-age directors were coming up with interesting stories and
fortunately I got an opportunity to be a part of change. I feel, any actor has
to embrace change that comes over time to connect with the audience. Some really
interesting stories came my way and as an actor I was able to play a variety of
roles. Each was a challenge and allowed me to redefine myself as an actress.
Parzania and Bheja Fry are two different kind of films. I shot them
simultaneously. It was difficult as an actress to switch between characters but
I enjoyed it. I am proud of both the films. Each character gave me a chance to
evolve. I feel more comfortable in this present state, it's real," said the
actress.

She added that one of the biggest reasons she agreed to do fiction series on TV
was Amitabh Bachchan. She said, "I said yes to be part of Yudh because of Mr
Bachchan. We worked together in two films earlier. They were alright. Then we
did Shoebite together which was a brilliant experience. When they approached me
for this series I had to say yes as I had a wonderful time working with him in
Shoebite. I am privileged to be part of Yudh. For me it is special because it is
my first television experience. And I could not have got a better project than
this to make my small screen debut. Everyone involved with this project is very
talented be it the cast or the crew."

The actress who was last seen on the silver screen in Club 60 says Yudh is
one-of-its-kind show that she agreed to do and she will be only doing TV shows
if she will be offered something distinct. "I don't think something as grand as
this show can be made often on T, but if I am offered something equally
interesting I will definitely do it. I am more interested in doing finite
series. The concept of seasons works better for TV," she said.

Sarika's younger daughter Akshara Haasan is soon going to make her Bollywood
debut in R Balki's next, Shamitabh. "I feel happy that both of us will share the
same space. I think somebody up there has planned it and is being very nice to
us," she ended.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Mirror (Sri Lanka)

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

India's BJP spokesperson to deliver Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Lecture

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Nov. 5 -- At the invitation of the Pathfinder Foundation, Bharatiya
Janata Party (BJP) National Spokesperson M.J. Akbar, an eminent journalist,
author and former member of Lok Sabha, will deliver the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru
Memorial Lecture to mark his 125th birth anniversary.

Akbar has authored many books including 'Tinder Box: The Past and Future of
Pakistan', 'Kashmir Behind the Vale', 'Riot After Riot', 'India: the Siege
Within', etc. Akbar's highly acclaimed biography of India's first prime
minister, 'Nehru: The Making of India' was published in the centennial year of
Jawaharlal Nehru's birth.

The Indo-Lanka relationship is multifaceted and offers considerable scope for
significant expansion and rapid improvement in the coming years. The
commencement of a new political cycle in India provides an opportunity to cast
aside mutual suspicion and apprehensions and work together to lay a firm
foundation for closer and mutually beneficial cooperation in many fields,
including security, trade, investments, education, health and culture. Akbar is
well placed to address these issues.

The public lecture is organised by the Pathfinder Foundation with the support of
the Indo-Lanka Foundation. Lirnenasia Chairman Professor Rohan Samarajiva and
University of Colombo Professor of Economics Dr. Sirimal Abeyratne will be
discussants. Former Foreign Secretary and Pathfinder Foundation Chairman Bernard
Goonetilleke will chair the event.

The event will be held on November 7 at 5:30 p.m., at the BMICH, Baudhaloka
Mawatha, Colombo 7, Committee Room D. Reservations could be made by calling Tel:
112372895/6 or through Email:

pm@pathfinderfoundation.org

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Mirror Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Wijeya Newspaper Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                               May 6, 2016 Friday

AISSF welcomes HC's order to set up one-man commission

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: Jamshedpur


Jamshedpur, May 6 -- All India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF) has welcomed the
High Court's order to State Government to set up one-man commission under
retired judge of High Court to probe into anti-Sikh riots.

Addressing a press conference, state president of the federation Satnam Singh
Gambhir said in response to his Civil Writ ( PIL) No. 5251 of 2013 in Jharkhand
High Court, the High Court has said that the Jharkhand Government must set up
'One Man Commission' for disposal of 1984 Sikh riots cases. Gambhir said that
Jharkhand has witnessed similar bloodshed during the riots, a One Man
Commission' will help to give justice.

Gambhir said that said that the assassination of Indira Gandhi led to the 1984
Sikh Massacre in India. Sikhs in Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ranchi, Ramgarh and Adityapur
(Seraikela Kharsawan District) were murdered to death while their properties
were destroyed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday

World In Brief

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 645 words


US pays £625m to indigenous tribes UNITED STATES: The government will pay more
than £625 million to settle lawsuits brought by indigenous communities. The
agreement resolves claims by 41 tribes from across the country to reclaim money
lost in mismanaged accounts and from royalties for oil, gas, grazing and timber
rights on tribal lands. The settlement was announced on Wednesday by the Justice
Department and the Interior Department, which manages more than 100,000 leases
on tribal trust lands and about 2,500 tribal trust accounts for federally
recognised tribes. South Sudanese troops to stay SUDAN: South Sudan President
Salva Kiir said on Thursday he will not withdraw troops from Sudan's oil-rich
border town of Heglig, despite mounting international pressure.

The advance of South Sudanese troops into territory internationally recognised
as Sudan's, brought swift condemnation from the US and Britain who urged South
Sudan to withdraw. Sudan's ambassador to the UN has filed a complaint to the
security council condemning the "heinous attack" on Heglig and demanded troops
to pull out Two killed in 'war games' air crash MOROCCO: Two US marines were
killed and two severely injured in an air crash during joint US-Moroccan
"African Lion" war games near Agadir on Wednesday. The annual exercise,
involving over 2,000 US and Moroccan military personnel, practices "combined
arms fire, aerial refuelling and non-lethal weapons training," according to the
US marine website. 18 jailed for killing Muslims in riots INDIA: An Indian court
sentenced 18 people to life imprisonment on Thursday for killing 23 Muslim
citizens during the 2002 Gujarat riots. The men were part of a rampaging mob
that set a house on fire and prevented mostly women and children inside from
escaping during riots in western India. The riots were sparked by a train fire
that killed 60 people and was blamed on Muslims. More than 1,000 people, mostly
Muslims, died or went missing as mobs whipped up by Hindu extremists rampaged
through towns and villages. Marzouki marks synagogue attack TUNISIA: President
Moncef Marzouki on Thursday marked 10 years since a deadly al-Qaida attack on a
synagogue by reassuring the country's Jewish people of their place in society.
He flew to the island Djerba, where a lorry bomb killed 21 people in 2002, with
grand rabbi Haim Bitan to lay a wreath in remembrance. He called Tunisia's Jews
"an integral part of our people" and said: "Whoever violates their rights
attacks all Tunisians." KFC apologises for tsunami message THAILAND: KFC has
said sorry for posting a Facebook message during Wednesday's tsunami scare that
urged people to rush home and order a bucket of chicken. As people were being
urged to evacuate from beach areas, the company said: "Let's hurry home and
follow the earthquake news. And don't forget to order your favourite KFC menu."
Hundreds of Thais criticised the company online and on Thursday the message was
replaced with one asking for forgiveness. Profs slam attack on Occupy protest
UNITED STATES: Academics criticised University of California, Davis officials
and police on Wednesday for pepper-spraying Occupy protesters last November. The
professors said it was "objectively unreasonable." State assembly speaker John
Perez called the report's findings "very troubling" and said he'd work with the
university's board and other politicians to hold the people responsible to
account. First president Ben Bella dead at 95 ALGERIA: Liberation leader Ahmed
Ben Bella died aged 95 at his family home in Algiers on Wednesday. The country's
first president had been treated twice in the last month at a military hospital
for discomfort, but his family didn't give reveal the cause of death. One of the
six "historic leaders" of Algeria's eight-year war of independence, Mr Ben Bella
spent 23 years in French and Algerian prisons.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Globalisation

BYLINE:  Kuldip Nayar - E-mail:knayar@nation.com.pk

LENGTH: 1036  words


No doubt, India's drought is nature-made. It is due to the failure of monsoon in
more than half of India that has made the country fall short by 10 million
tonnes in rice and an equal quantity of sugar. But the nation could have avoided
the man-made misery, the food crisis which is because of globalisation. Massive
land grabbing, displacing farmers and abnormal growth of the landless have led
to a situation where those who depend on the land have been further
marginalised.

Our growth rate has been hitting nearly 10 percent for the past two decades.
Even this year it is 6.1 percent. Yet the number of the poor, roughly 70 percent
of the population, has not shown any appreciable dent. There is no paradox
except that the extra-earned money has gone to the pockets of the rich.

The growing luxury crops for exports have told upon the cultivation of rice and
wheat. Rice has also been exported on a large scale when India needs every grain
of it. The globalisation had put India under an obligation to export. But this
could have been avoided if some ministers and top bureaucrats had not fallen
prey to the temptation of making money under the table. The Centre has shown a
lot of concern, but there is no word about an inquiry into the scandal.

India has not yet realised that the growth rate does not reduce poverty and
hunger. It aggravates both. The Manmohan Singh government has not yet woken up
to the fact that the model of industrial agriculture and globalised trade on
food are responsible for the creation of hunger. Farmers have inevitably
depended on debt for help, not realising that a debt trap is also a hunger trap.

Many suicides have taken place and many more would. The poor in India are worse
off because the avenue of their livelihood has been destroyed, thanks to
globalisation. The middle classes are even worse because they are eating
inferior, not better. Junk and processed food is forced on them through
globalisation. The country is now the epicentre of the malnutrition of the poor
who do not get enough.

The malnutrition of the rich is because their diets have been degraded with the
Americanised food culture.  President Bush made a fallacious argument when he
was in office. He said the food crisis in India was because the Indian middle
class has expanded more than America's total population and is consuming more
food grains. But what he does not know is that India on the whole still eats
less. A report on the Causes and Cures for Food Security which has come out in
the last few days says: "President Bush's bio-fuel policies and his protection
of the grain cartel are the real reason for the price rise." Food has been
transformed into a commodity controlled by joint corporations.

The uncontrollable rise in food prices is clearly an outcome of the economic
policies which have been framed to fit into the neo-liberal paradigm enunciated
by the West. The government has intervened at every step to create corporate
monopolies in the food system:  from steel to domestic production, trade to food
process, to liberalised imports to export oriented agriculture. Though the
government intervention has unleashed a forced driving up food prices, it is now
throwing up its hand and saying it can do nothing to control prices.

At the Global Agro-Industrial Forum meeting on April 11 last year, PM Manmohan
Singh said a steep rise in food prices would make inflation control more
difficult and might hurt macro-economic stability. He, however, ruled out the
return to an era of blind control to check prices. "We cannot react to such a
situation by returning to an era of blind controls and by depressing agriculture
terms of trade," said the PM. After having shaped an economy which is leading to
high cost food for the poor, he has said he believes in running a "hands off
economy." This is putting the economy on autopilot for corporate control of food
systems.

Imports are no longer affordable, and a model based on import dependency might
be in the interest of the US government which has always used food as a weapon.
It is definitely not in the interest of India's food sovereignty, nor in the
interest of the 70 percent of India's population, already denied access to
adequate food.

A decade and more of corporate globalisation has devastated agriculture
worldwide with the promise of cheap food. Yet the very forces and processes that
have launched the globalisation are taking food beyond people's reach. Prices of
food are rising worldwide. More than 33 countries have witnessed riots. India
has had very high increase in prices of essential commodities. All kinds of
reasons are being thrown around, including population growth. These are outrages
explanations because prices have doubled over the past year, but not the
population.

When India's first PM Jawaharlal Nehru found that after pumping in thousands of
crores in the economy through the First Five Year Plan, there was no
improvement, he immediately appointed a top economic expert to find out where
the money had gone. The report showed that the extra money was pocketed by the
rich. Nehru was not surprised but felt hurt that Mahatma Gandhi's advice to the
industrialists and businessmen to act as trustees had made no difference. In
fact, whatever Mahatma Gandhi preached on village economy and self-reliance has
not been followed at all. He is not to blame but those who run the government
are.

The main reason why more hunger is increasing when India is growing financially
is because the globalisation which the trio:  PM Manmohan Singh, the then
Finance Minister P Chidambaram and Deputy Chairman of Planning Commission Montek
Singh Ahluwalia:  has pushed is detrimental to the country. Economically
competent, they have got lost in the theories they have themselves adumbrated
for development. What surprises me is that the PM has not set up a committee:
he appoints one at the drop of a hat:  to find out where the income generated
through nearly the trebling of the GDP has vanished. The rich and middle classes
have no doubt lined up their pockets. Still this is only a partial answer. The
nation needs to know the full story.

The writer is a former member of the Indian Parliament and senior journalist

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Progress, not peace

BYLINE: Jagieet Sharma, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 321  words


Re: India-Pakistan rivalry should be friendly, Aug. 2.

The rivalry between India and Pakistan can never be friendly, as letter-writer
Ron Santana proposes. Hostilities between the two countries prevail whether on
the cricket grounds or the Bollywood/Lollywood grounds.

The reason can be traced to 1947 or even before. India and Pakistan were created
on the graves of many of their people. The two newly created nations'
governments faced the major task of not only healing these three cultures,
Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs, but also the task of mitigating the hatred each group
felt towards the others. The healing process still continues: the two nations'
writers, film producers, directors, journalists and ordinary people of that era
still express the horrors of 1947.

Canadian film director Deepa Mehta has captured the hatred and cross-migration
of 1947 in her movie Earth -- 1947. The minorities continue to live together in
harmony until external forces intervene and trigger acts of hatred and thus
communal riots.

India's film industry has to be commended for extending a hand of friendship and
involving Pakistani singers, producers and directors in its movies. Though some
members of Bollywood have strongly opposed the exchange, the majority have
conceded. The cultural exchange has been successful so far.

However, while the cultural link is being strengthened, the political link
falters. The 1999 Kargil war in Kashmir and recent terrorist attacks are prime
examples of how the peace process is stalled. In the Kargil conflict, India
sustained a large number of casualties, but efforts to pursue the peace process
continue. It took the shape of starting a new bus service that connects
Sikhism's two holiest sites, Amritsar in India and Nankana Sahib in Pakistan.

A proponent of peace and love, I remain convinced that both countries have the
potential for progress but not the potential for peace.

Jagieet Sharma,

Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2006



CORRECTION: Letter-writer Jagjeet Sharma's name was misspelled on this page Aug.
11. The Citizen regrets the error.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2006 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             August 13, 2012 Monday

Investigate all angles: Community members

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 258  words


A day after riots hit the Azad Maidan, members of the Muslim community have said
that "all angles" should be explored during the investigations. "What happened
was condemnable. But the police should do a thorough investigation. They should
not just stick to people who were attacking and should explore all the angles,"
said Maulana Mustaqeem Azmi, president of the Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind.

"Even some press reports have indicated that a probe beyond what happened needs
to be done. Till the time I was there, we did not foresee any problem," said
Maulana Ather Ali, member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, who left
minutes before the riots.

Some members of the community held a meeting on Sunday and commended the
police's work. "This time they showed lot of restrain and instead bore the
brunt. It would have been better had they not fired, but maybe that was
necessary," said Maulana Hakim Mehmood Dariyabadi of the All India Ulema
Council.

However, some people were unhappy with the police arrangements. "They seemed to
have failed in their intelligence. They probably underestimated the turnout,"
said Farib Khan, a prominent activist. "The theory that people got incited due
to some fiery speech does not stand, as there have been instances where the
community has been a lot angrier but have been peaceful." The activist cited
Prophet Mohammed's cartoon episode as an example. "Here, the loudspeakers were
not so loud that people outside could have heard and got incited. Those who had
come to riot had come with that intention," added Khan.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Film festival for & by the youth;
Feature and documentary films will be screened for 'Filmograph' festival

BYLINE: Kinjal Desai

LENGTH: 494  words


Organised by a few cultural and educational institutes, 'Filmograph' is a film
festival that screens feature and documentary films based on a particular
subject. For their fifth edition, which will be held from October 3-6 at
Rangmandal theatre, Paldi, the theme is 'About Youth. For Youth'.

Theatre personality and convener of Rangmandal Kabir Thakore said, "The idea of
Filmograph emerged keeping in mind the need for the youth to watch good quality
and intellectual films. We wanted to screen issue-based films for the youth so
that they could question the reasons behind the occurrence of incidents in the
country, the change of political scenario, why the rich continue to become
richer while the poor slip into deep misery, why farmers commit suicide, and
more."

The first film festival held in 2011 was based on communal harmony. Thakore
explained that films made from 1942 to 2002 were screened during the festival.
There were also films based on riots of India, ranging from 'Garam Hawa' (1948)
to 'Parzania' (2007). "The idea was to show how films too reflected the
happenings and events of our society. We also wanted to teach youth on how they
should pursue film viewing. One other time, the festival concentrated on
migration of men and their displacement issues. We have had the likes of Farooq
Sheikh and Pavan Malhotra participating in the festival guiding youngsters and
other film buffs on film viewing and other filmy particulars," said Thakore.

This year, the festival will screen four commercial films namely, 'Sikandar' by
Piyush Zha (October 3), 'Hazaaron Khwaishen Aisi' by Sudhir Mishra (October 4),
'Mere Apne' by Gulzar.  The same day there would be interaction with Vinay
Shukla, director of the film 'God Mother' (October 5). Screening of 'Gulaal' by
Anurag Kashyap followed by an interaction with actor, singer and musician Piyush
Mishra will take place on the last day (October 6).

However, this year the organizers will also screen documentaries made by
students of National Institute of Design. These are related to Gujarat and its
surroundings. Films include Saraii by Prachi Mokashi - which shows how an NRI
from Leicester, Siddhis from Africa and an old Sindhi woman, call Ahmedabad
their 'home'; Tran Eka Tran by Aastha Gohil is a documentary film about a
teacher, a nurse and a young girl, each one shown pursuing their dreams and
ambitions; A Dream Called America by Anoop Sathyan  is a documentary made on
Shahbaz, a 15-year-old boy from Gujarat, who had studied in US for a year on a
scholarship, where he was hosted by an American couple. The one year he spent in
US changed his attitude and he wants to return and settle in US, leaving his
parents in a dilemma; and Vayro by Aashini Shah is a short documentary on three
individuals and their families. Three people in their 40s and 60s have started
learning dance, English and computers respectively in order to bond better with
their families, especially the younger generation.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

How the world changed with SRT;
Just how long is 24 years? dna lists a few world-changing events that
corresponded with Master Blaster's career in top flight cricket

BYLINE: Team DNA

LENGTH: 810  words


1989

Fall of the Berlin Wall

After 28 years, Berlin Wall was open to the West for travel through the border
on November 11. It was constructed in 1961 to cut off West Berlin from
surrounding East Germany and from East Berlin

1990

Nelson Mandela freed

On February 11, South Africa freed Nelson Mandela, who was imprisoned for 27.5
years. In August 1962, Mandela was convicted and jailed for leaving the country
illegally and inciting workers to strike

1991

Rajiv Gandhi assassinated

Former Prime Minister of India, Rajiv Gandhi, was killed in a bomb explosion in
Sriperumbudur, near Chennai, while campaigning for re-election. Gandhi was
India's prime minister when Sachin made his international debut

1992

Official end of Cold War

US president George Bush and Russian president Boris Yeltsin proclaim a formal
end to the Cold War. This followed the recent breakdown of communist USSR

1993

Michael Jordon retires

After his father was killed and allegations of gambling, Michael Jordon retires
and only plays minor league baseball. But 17 months later, he returns to
basketball

1994

Blacks vote

South Africa holds first interracial national election; Nelson Mandela elected
president with 60 per cent votes, saying, "Voting in our first free and fair
election has begun. Today marks the dawn of our freedom"

1995

First planet outside solar system found

For the first time in history, a gas giant outside the solar system was found by
two Swiss scientists, who claimed to have discovered the first planet outside
Earth's solar system. The planet was larger than Jupiter

1996

Kabul seized

In September, the Taliban seized the Afghan capital Kabul and established the
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. The Taliban's Emirate received recognition only
from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the UAE

1997

Internet users touch 100mn

In 1994, a mere three million people were connected to the internet. By the end
of 1997, more than 100 million were using it

1998

India resumed nuclear testing

In May, India conduct three atomic tests despite worldwide disapproval. Pakistan
stage five nuclear tests as a response

1999

NATO attacks Serbia

In March, a 78-day offensive by NATO forces began in response to Serb attacks on
Croatians. The NATO offensive was a response to a new wave of ethnic cleansing
launched by Serbian forces against the Kosovar Albanians

2000

North-South Korea peace accord

In June, presidents of North and South Korea sign peace accord, and ended half a
century of antagonism. The two countries' animosity erupted into open aggression
that time

2001

9/11 terrorist attack

On September 11, two planes crashed into the North and South Twin Towers, The
Pentagon, and attempted to attack the USA White House, killing 2,819 people

2002

Gujarat riots

India's worst Hindu-Muslim violence in a decade rocked Gujarat after a Muslim
mob fire-bombed a train, killing Hindus. More than 1,000 were killed in riots
that ensued

2003

Mars exploration rovers launched

Two Mars rovers -- Spirit and Opportunity -- were launched to Mars, primararily
in search of answers about the history of water on Mar. They landed on Mars in
January 2004

2004

Tsunami strikes

Eleven Asian countries were devastated by the tsunami in December, which is
described as one of the worst natural disasters in history of mankind, killing
more than 280,000

2005

Launch of YouTube

February 2005 was when YouTube, the video-sharing website, was launched. It
caught instant attraction, and touched about 100 million views per day within a
year

2006

Birth of Twitteratis

Arguably the most popular social networking site, Twitter  was founded in 2006.
It now has 554,750,000 total users. And, Sachin joined Twitter  in 2010

2007

Assassination of Bhutto

Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in December, after leaving from a political
rally in Rawalpindi - two weeks before the scheduled Pakistan elections

2008

Obama's historic election

Barack Obama, then 47, broke more than 200 years of history by becoming the
first African-American president of USA

2009

Water discovered on moon

The Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS) was the first
American mission to the Moon in more than 10 years, which revealed significant
amounts of water ice

2010

Haiti's devastating earthquake

A 7.0-magnitude quake struck Haiti in January. With a death toll of more than
230,000, it is considered one of the deadliest

2011

Osama Bin Laden killed

Osama bin Laden, mastermind of the September 11 attacks, was shot dead by USA's
Navy Seal in Abbottabad, Pakistan

2012

End of the world?

The Mayan calendar, which is a system of calendars used in pre-Columbian
Mesoamerica, finished its last cycle in December 2012. It fueled speculations
that the world will end on December 21, 2012

2013

End of an era

The world didn't come to an end, but 463 ODIs and 200 Tests later, Sachin
announced his retirement from the international stage. Twenty four years on,
it's being called the end of an era

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Honk if you're hungry to spice it up;
CHILL OUT HORN PLEASE

BYLINE: LARISSA DUBECKI

SECTION: LIFE & STYLE; The Good Life; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 432 words


This fresh take on Indian cuisine could drive your taste buds wild.

WHERE AND WHAT

What, no typical colonial name such as Indian Palace or Royal Indian? Owners
Jessi and Jennifer Singh must be tired of explaining their curious choice of
Horn Please (it's the rule governing the riot of India's roads), in the more
sedate context of Fitzroy North, just near the Edinburgh Gardens. Horn Please is
an offshoot of their Kyneton restaurant Dhaba at the Mill, doing its bit to
elevate the local stocks of an often-abused and little-understood cuisine.

WHERE TO SIT

A generously proportioned shop front had no need to expunge the broad, white
archways from the days it was a Nepalese restaurant. Bollywood movies are
projected silently onto the wall, with solemn portraits and bold Hindi script
adding to the understated flair.

WHEN TO GO

Monday to Wednesday 6-9pm; Thursday-Saturday 6-10.30pm; Sunday 5.30-9pm.

DRINK

Indian food goes brilliantly with a beer and Horn Please takes its selection
seriously, with a 20-plus list on a serve-yourself system from a fridge near the
door. Wine sticks patriotically to the Macedon region - seven whites and reds -
or you can BYO (it's $10 corkage a bottle).

EAT

No oil slicks, more sophisticated spicing than usually encountered among
Melbourne's Indian restaurants - Horn Please had me at the fat samosas, which
were stuffed with pea and potato, green mango and pomegranate. Chilli-dodgers
will find plenty to like here, the heat trumped by the fragrant aromatics of
fenugreek, cardamom, cloves and all the mysterious spicing of the subcontinent,
although if heat is what you're after, a hot chilli sauce and a powerful pickle
turn up for you to add at will. Pappadums are also worth ordering, if just for
the accompanying trio of minty coriander, sweet mango, and date and tamarind
chutney. "Street food" starters include an unusual papdi chaat, billed as the
Indian take on nachos and starring fried chickpea fritters with a zingy combo of
tomato, pomegranate and coriander. There's no seafood on the short menu but from
the eight mains, goat curry in a dark gravy that's heavy with cardamom hits the
right notes, and grab some of the chewy, fat naan (made with organic and
unbleached flour) to soak up the sauce from the free-range butter chicken in a
creamy lake. Among three desserts is kulfi - the sweet, rich ice-cream made with
evaporated milk - and mango lassi.

WHO'S THERE

Locals have embraced it, and it's overflowing on weekends.

WHY BOTHER?

Indian food doesn't have to mean chicken tikka masala.

Horn Please

167 St Georges Road, Fitzroy North, phone 9497 8101

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Chef Jessi Singh offers up samosas (left) stuffed with pea
and potato, green mango and pomegranate. PICTURES: SIMON SCHLUTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

US court to hear arguments in anti-Sikh riots case on May 1

BYLINE: YoshitaSingh

LENGTH: 378  words

DATELINE: New York


A US court will hear on May 1 the arguments in the anti-Sikh riots case against
India's ruling Congress party, which has opposed a default judgement being
sought by a Sikh rights group against it for its failure to defend charges for
conspiring and organising the 1984 riots.

Lawyers from international law firm 'Jones Day', which is representing the
Congress in a court here, has opposed the entry of default judgement against the
political party arguing the 1984 riots case "involves significant issues of
public international law that should not be decided by a default judgement."

Judge Robert Sweet of US federal court in Manhattan is presiding over the
anti-Sikh riots case filed against the Congress and some of its leaders
including Minister for Urban Development Kamal Nath.

The Minister has denied the charges made against him. The judge has set as May 1
the date for hearing arguments in the case.

In its 32-page response filed in the US District Court in New York on behalf of
the Congress, the law firm said all events relating to the November 1984 Sikh
riots took place in India and there is not much interest in the US about the
case.

"All the individuals and property purportedly harmed by the Congress was located
in India.

"Any witnesses or documents that the Indian National Congress may have relating
to the alleged events are located in India.

"The cost, effort, and time required to conduct discovery, nevertheless trial,
of this dispute would be significant.

"Moreover, the administrative difficulties this Court would face in hearing
these claims would be burdensome, local interest in this action is nil, and
imposing jury duty on American citizens to hear this entirely-Indian dispute
would be inappropriate", the Congress said in its papers.

It said the class action filed against the Congress by the Sikhs For Justice
group is "against a foreign political party for alleged acts occurring entirely
abroad more than 27 years ago."

Congress party's lawyer Thomas Lynch said the "magnitude of issues at stake, the
public international and foreign nature of the lawsuit, the fatal deficiencies
in the plaintiff's claims and the long standing principle that cases should be
resolved on the merits all preclude entry of a default judgement against the
INC.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday

Tell me I am mad

BYLINE: Surjit S Bhalla

LENGTH: 2051  words


How do Nitish Kumar and L.K. Advani become secular? How does rainfall determine
monetary policy?

When I woke up this morning/ Secularism was on my mind/ So I went to Nitish/
Just to ease my pain (with apologies to We Five, "You were on my mind")

If I had enough hair, I would tear it out. Several "events" of the last few days
I am just not able to understand. See if you can. Top of my madness list is the
behaviour of Nitish Kumar, Bihar chief minister and wannabe PM. Everybody wants
to be PM, just like everybody "must" get stoned. So that is not the problem. The
issue is the reason given for Nitish to be a born-again secularist. After being
a pseudo-secularist for the last 17 years (being pseudo comes with the territory
of being with the BJP), Nitish appears to have suddenly discovered religion.
Though we may never know the real reasons, most people see his actions as
something less than rank opportunism. The Congress is short of candidates

for PM - does he possibly see himself as a Congress-front candidate (all

puns intended)?

Along the same lines has been the Congress-friendly media's response to L.K.
Advani's tantrums. The most amusing aspect about the "Sonia is happy" networks
was their projection of Advani as the ultimate secularist. The man singly
responsible for Babri Masjid - which then led to the Mumbai communal riots,
which then possibly influenced the Godhra riots. The man who chose disturbing
yatras over fasts as

his main weapon of political destruction. He is the new Congress icon of
secularism?

Can we all be honest and forbid

When I woke up this morning/ Secularism was on my mind/ So I went to Nitish/
Just to ease my pain (with apologies to We Five, "You were on my mind")

If I had enough hair, I would tear it out. Several "events" of the last few days
I am just not able to understand. See if you can.

Top of my madness list is the behaviour of Nitish Kumar, Bihar chief minister
and wannabe PM. Everybody wants to be PM, just like everybody "must" get stoned.
So that is not the problem. The issue is the reason given for Nitish to be a
born-again secularist. After being a pseudo-secularist for the last 17 years
(being pseudo comes with the territory of being with the BJP), Nitish appears to
have suddenly discovered religion. Though we may never know the real reasons,
most people see his actions as something less than rank opportunism. The
Congress is short of candidates for PM - does he possibly see himself as a
Congress-front candidate (all puns intended)?

Along the same lines has been the Congress-friendly media's response to L.K.
Advani's tantrums. The most amusing aspect about the "Sonia is happy" networks
was their projection of Advani as the ultimate secularist. The man singly
responsible for Babri Masjid - which then led to the Mumbai communal riots,
which then possibly influenced the Godhra riots. The man who chose disturbing
yatras over fasts as his main weapon of political destruction. He is the new
Congress icon of secularism?

Can we all be honest and forbid the use of the S-word in our political
discourse? Apart from delightedly watching all the Congress leaders and Lalu and
Mulayam and now Nitish squirm while they attempt to find a new vocabulary with
which to communicate with the masses, the banning of the S-word will also help
our democracy. The leaders of all stripes will be forced to communicate on
issues and not on empty platitudes. So my question to journalists and
politicians and spokespersons is: since we get nothing, and actually negative
nothings from insipid discussions about secularism, can we ban its usage? If you
disagree, call me mad.

Banning the S-word will also help in discussing communal riots and mass killings
objectively rather than suggesting that "the Mumbai riots were secular and
Godhra riots not secular". There should be an objective comparison between the
three major "communal" events of the last 30 years - the pogrom against the
Sikhs in 1984, and the communal riots in Mumbai 1992-93, and Godhra-Gujarat,
2002. If Narendra Modi has to be congratulated on any issue, it is in forcing
the Indian media to confront the comparison. Let us get some simple facts
straight (else call me mad) - there is no comparison between the Sikh pogrom and
the communal riots. Note: one was a pogrom, the others were communal clashes.
The dictionary defines a pogrom as "the organised killing of many helpless
people usually because of their race or religion". That is what happened in the
capital of India in 1984. The army wasn't called in until five days after the
killing had started. The number of helpless Sikhs killed -  close to 8,000 with
about 3,000 in Delhi alone. In other words, there were more innocent Sikhs
killed in the pogrom in Delhi than in the Mumbai and Godhra riots put together -
about 2,000 killed, including about 1,500 Muslims and 500 Hindus. Note that
both Hindus and Muslims were killed in Mumbai-Godhra - unlike the killing of
only Sikhs in the pogrom.

My plea is that we recognise that atrocities have been committed under the watch
of both political parties - the Congress was ruling India and Delhi during both
the Sikh pogrom and the Mumbai riots and Modi was at the helm in Gujarat in
2002. It is time for truth and reconciliation, rather than arrogant
holier-than-thou pronouncements from political leaders. Again, let us shift the
debate to governance rather than indulge in vacuous polemics about bad morality.

And then, there is the question of terrorism and development fighters. Why is
there not a reasonable discussion, let alone a debate, on the destruction of
lives, civil liberties and governance by the Taliban in Pakistan and the
Naxals/Maoists in India? Why do learned intellectuals and politicians of a
particular ideological persuasion have a lump in their throats criticising these
different groups, both in India and Pakistan? Nobody condemns their
extraordinary violence outright - it is always qualified. Why? Maybe I am mad.

And now for something (almost) completely different. I find the economic debate
in India, as conducted by the RBI, professionals and the media, extremely
unenlightening. The economy has literally collapsed, yet we are not looking for
causes and cures. Let me illustrate my problem with a recent quote from the
monetary authorities. RBI governor D. Subbarao, at an event in Hyderabad, said:
"...Most importantly, we also chase the monsoon like millions of farmers across
the country. So, the monsoon outlook, the monsoon performance is going to be the
important factor in determining the RBI policy in the next three months."

We all recognise that food inflation is a major problem in India, and that food
inflation has been primarily caused by the misguided and wrong procurement
pricing policies of the UPA government. But it is for the first time that I have
heard of the level of rainfall determining monetary policy in India or any other
country. Given the depressing and depressed state of the Indian economy, no
matter what happens to rainfall, the argument is for a cut in the interest
rates. Assume for a moment the rainfall is bad -  growth declines and there is
close to a zero effect on food inflation, since the prices of all the important
food items are administered. The RBI should cut repo rates to help growth.
Assume rainfall is plentiful. Again, not much effect on inflation. But
agricultural growth will be up and the RBI should... I get it -  the RBI should
tighten up because growth will be too high! Tell me I am mad to think so.

The writer is chairman of Oxus Investments, an emerging market advisory firm,
and a senior advisor

to Blufin, a leading financial information companythe use of the S-word in our
political discourse? Apart from delightedly watching all the Congress leaders
and Lalu and Mulayam and now Nitish squirm while they attempt to find a new
vocabulary with which to communicate with the masses, the banning of the S-word
will also help our democracy. The leaders of all stripes will be forced to
communicate on issues and not on empty platitudes. So my question to journalists
and politicians and spokespersons is: since we get nothing, and actually
negative nothings from insipid discussions about secularism, can we ban its
usage? If you disagree, call me mad.

Banning the S-word will also help in discussing communal riots and mass killings
objectively rather than suggesting that "the Mumbai riots were secular and
Godhra riots not secular". There should be an objective comparison between the
three major "communal" events of the last 30 years - the pogrom against the
Sikhs in 1984, and the communal riots in Mumbai 1992-93, and Godhra-Gujarat,
2002. If Narendra Modi has to be congratulated on any issue, it is in forcing
the Indian media to confront the comparison. Let us get some simple facts
straight (else call me mad) - there is no comparison between the Sikh pogrom and
the communal riots. Note: one was a pogrom, the others were communal clashes.
The dictionary defines a pogrom as "the organised killing of many helpless
people usually because of their race or religion". That is what happened in the
capital of India in 1984. The army wasn't called in until five days after the
killing had started. The number of helpless Sikhs killed -  close to 8,000 with
about 3,000 in Delhi alone. In other words, there were more innocent Sikhs
killed in the pogrom in Delhi than in the Mumbai and Godhra riots put together -
about 2,000 killed, including about 1,500 Muslims and 500 Hindus. Note that
both Hindus and Muslims were killed in Mumbai-Godhra - unlike the killing of
only Sikhs in the pogrom.

My plea is that we recognise that atrocities have been committed under the watch
of both political parties - the Congress was ruling India and Delhi during both
the Sikh pogrom and the Mumbai riots and Modi was at the helm in Gujarat in
2002. It is time for truth and reconciliation, rather than arrogant
holier-than-thou pronouncements from political leaders. Again, let us shift the
debate to governance rather than indulge in vacuous polemics about bad morality.

And then, there is the question of terrorism and development fighters. Why is
there not a reasonable discussion, let alone a debate, on the destruction of
lives, civil liberties and governance by the Taliban in Pakistan and the
Naxals/Maoists in India? Why do learned intellectuals and politicians of a
particular ideological persuasion have a lump in their throats criticising these
different groups, both in India and Pakistan? Nobody condemns their
extraordinary violence outright - it is always qualified. Why? Maybe I am mad.

And now for something (almost) completely different. I find the economic debate
in India, as conducted by the RBI, professionals and the media, extremely
unenlightening. The economy has literally collapsed, yet we are not looking for
causes and cures. Let me illustrate my problem with a recent quote from the
monetary authorities. RBI governor D. Subbarao, at an event in Hyderabad, said:
"...Most importantly, we also chase the monsoon like millions of farmers across
the country. So, the monsoon outlook, the monsoon performance is going to be the
important factor in determining the RBI policy in the next three months."

We all recognise that food inflation is a major problem in India, and that food
inflation has been primarily caused by the misguided and wrong procurement
pricing policies of the UPA government. But it is for the first time that I have
heard of the level of rainfall determining monetary policy in India or any other
country. Given the depressing and depressed state of the Indian economy, no
matter what happens to rainfall, the argument is for a cut in the interest
rates. Assume for a moment the rainfall is bad -  growth declines and there is
close to a zero effect on food inflation, since the prices of all the important
food items are administered. The RBI should cut repo rates to help growth.
Assume rainfall is plentiful. Again, not much effect on inflation. But
agricultural growth will be up and the RBI should... I get it -  the RBI should
tighten up because growth will be too high! Tell me I am mad to think so.

The writer is chairman of Oxus Investments, an emerging market advisory firm,
and a senior advisor to Blufin, a leading financial information company

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday

Brinda lashes out at NaMo growth model

BYLINE: By Abhishek Bhalla in New Delhi

LENGTH: 400  words


GUJARAT Chief Minister Narendra Modi's list of critics seems to be growing by
the day.

After the Congress, the CPM has launched an attack on the leader in a critique -
" The BJP Model for India- Vikas Purush and Vinash Neeti"- released in the
Capital on Monday.

Although CPM leader Brinda Karat maintained that neither the BJP nor the
Congress can provide able governance to the country, the party has singled out
Modi and carried out a frontal attack on not just his policies but also his
alleged role in the 2002 Gujarat riots.

" We are referring to the BJP's campaign and this booklet is a critique of BJP's
governance under Modi," says the booklet.

" The packaging of Modi is not just a PR exercise to promote the agenda of an
individual relentlessly pursuing his personal ambitions. It is an exercise
backed by corporate, both domestic and foreign, who see in the Modi model an
opportunity to fulfill their dreams of a corporate- led reformed India," the
booklet adds.

The booklet claims Modi's role in the post- Godhra riots, terror in name of
Hindutva, encounter killings in Gujarat and innocent Muslims being jailed. " We
have given a detailed account of evidence available against Modi and how justice
was subverted post- 2002," said Karat.

Elaborating on Modi's alleged role in the 2002 riots, the booklet lists out new
evidence available in the records of SIT. " Despite all evidence, SIT gave a
clean chit to Modi. This was in direct contrast to the report of Amicus Curiae,
also appointed by the Supreme Court, who on the basis of the same evidence
available to the SIT states categorically that there was prima facie evidence to
warrant Modi's role in the violence," the CPM booklet states.

Moving on from Modi's role in the 2002 riots and referring to Hindu terror as
RSS hate agenda against Muslims in India by its front organisations such as
Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Durga Vahini, the booklet addressed
issues like social inequalities, calling the Gujarat Model a pro- corporate
model. " There are higher malnutrition levels in Gujarat compared to other
states including UP," the booklet says. Rise in unemployment and low wages,
generosity for corporate and cases of corruption in Gujarat have also been
listed as reasons why the CPM finds the Modi model antidevelopment.

After the Congress, the CPM has launched an attack on Modi in a critique
released in the Capital on Monday

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Pilot project to tap Modi's urban voters

BYLINE: Saurabh Shukla

LENGTH: 541  words


CARRYING on the political legacy of his late father Congress leader and former
Union minister Rajesh Pilot, Sachin Pilot is one of the leading voices of the
UPA. As the Minister of Corporate Affairs and a part of Rahul Gandhi's core
group, Pilot is a suave face for the Congress - has the rare combination of an
urban face and rural appeal.

As the general elections draw close, the Congress needs to bank on its urban
faces to shatter the myth of BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi,
which is attracting metropolitan India.

RCR DREAM

Asked about Modi's chances of getting to 7, Race Course Road, Pilot voices his
doubts saying: " Modi was desperate to have the tag of PM- in- waiting as did
Advani, who also tried but you know what happened." " Please check what has
happened in Gujarat under him. The level of malnutrition among children is at an
all- time high and the social indicators are poor," he said.

The 36- year- old minister, who is a management graduate from the Wharton School
of the University of Pennsylvania also has political connection with the ruling
family of Jammu and Kashmir - his wife Sara is the daughter of National
Conference patron Farooq Abdullah.

Asked if Rahul can match Modi as PM candidate, Pilot says: " Rahul will lead the
Congress to victory in 2014. He is our leader and will lead the party." Changing
gear to the Muzaffarnagar communal riots, Pilot believes that there is some
collusion between the BJP and the SP that led to the riots.

" Now facts are coming out that local leaders fuelled communal tension and the
names of leaders such as Azam Khan have come out. It is now known that the
intent was to create a huge communal divide," he says.

Pilot, who represents a new generation of politicians, is candid: " As a CM you
take an oath on the Constitution to protect the lives of your people and he (
Akhilesh Yadav) has clearly failed there." Significantly, he sees a direct link
and blames the Sangh Parivar for the communal riots. " The kind of things Modi,
the Sangh Parivar and the RSS stand for and have been talking about, clearly
question their role in all this." " They are taking the country backwards with a
narrow agenda and want to revive the communal divide of the 80s and 90s. They
have to realise that the country has moved on," he says.

Asked if he was worried about corporates deserting brand India, he says: "
Certainly, there are worries about India getting a bad name because of these
communal incidents but I am more worried about the innocents who have lost their
lives." Clearly Pilot is confirming what many have feared - that in the run up
to the 2014 polls there is a deliberate attempt to polarise voters by creating a
communal divide.

Modi was desperate to have the tag of PM- in- waiting as did Advani, who also
tried but you know what happened.

Modi is more about packaging, and a marketing propaganda than real substance.

Rahul will lead the Congress to victory in 2014. He is our leader and will lead
the party.

It is now known that the intent was to create a huge communal divide.

The chief minister should be above gender, caste and religion. The buck stops
with him.

' ' ' ' - SACHIN PILOT, Minister of Corporate Affairs ON NARENDRA MODI ON RAHUL
GANDHI ON MUZAFFARNAGAR RIOTS

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

CONG'S PLAN TO TRIP NaMo

BYLINE: By Kartikeya Sharma

LENGTH: 926  words

As the monumental pressure  of fighting Modi builds up in  the ultimate tussle
for power  here's how the Grand Old Party  of India aims to take him down  in
the upcoming 2014 elections

THE WAR has not begun but trumpets have begun to blow and India's large and
extremely complex electorate is slowly waking up to brace itself to the humdrum
of 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

The two main political parties, BJP and Congress, are already staring at each
other like trained wrestlers and rearing to lock themselves with the other in a
mortal combat. Right now the struggle is to acquire an upper hand to define the
pitch on which the game- changing election would be fought. For both the
parties, stakes are very high and a possible defeat could politically paralyse
the loser for years to come.

First, the Congress has made up its mind to fight elections on right- based
schemes and challenge the chorus of industry around Narendra Modi and transform
it into a debate on peoplefriendly development versus crony capitalism.
Secondly, the party will not only woo minority votes but also challenge Narendra
Modi on it. " All issues are important. Ideology will be an important part of
the battle. The question is whether the country should vote for a person who is
willing to leave a substantial portion of the population behind," said Congress
MP Deepender Hooda.

THE STANCE

This positioning has been subtle but firm. The sharp turn came after
Muzaffarnagar riots. The brutal violence has polarised the electorate and
achieved what the chaurasi kos yatra couldn't.

BJP's dream has come true as a polarisation was delivered to them on a platter,
a polaristation that they couldn't have obtained on their own.

It delivered to them not only the upper caste, but also the economically
powerful and politically assertive OBC. It is this vacuum which Congress wants
to fill on a national level. Smelling the blood, on an innocuous Friday,
Congress Spokesperson PC Chacko compared riots in UP with those in Gujarat.

Even the Minority Affairs Minister K Rahman Khan concurred and told MAIL TODAY
that these riots are the worst in India's history, right after Gujarat.

BJP agrees that this posture will benefit them. " Congress cannot get over its
vote bank politics. The more they talk about it, better for us," said political
adviser to BJP chief, Sudhanshu Trivedi. But this is just one part of the
strategy with which Congress plans to fight the elections.

Congress insiders say that they would not allow BJP to get a play on this issue.
The core of the Congress campaign would be to push the welfare agenda of the
Congress and contrast their vision of development with BJP's.

Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish Tewari says that the election will
be fought on the issue of empowerment. Congress leader Ajay Maken agrees.

" We aren't obsessed with individuals. When we have issues to showcase and
policies which empower the poor, the question of other issues doesn't arise," he
says.

" We aren't shying away from attacking Narendra Modi; we will expose him but
that doesn't mean that we are obsessed with him.

Elections will be about performance and  policies," said Congress general
secretary Digvijay Singh.

Despite the bold assertion, tackling Narendra Modi has remained a headache for
the Congress. Earlier, the issue was localised, but now it affects the body as a
whole. The dilemma is whether to attack him with the issue of 2002 riots or take
the moral high road. The inability to draw up a concrete and durable strategy to
fight Narendra Modi has proved to be rather costly for the Congress.

Now a section wants to see the answer through a legal antidote to this political
problem in jailed IPS officer DG Vanzara's letter. No one will openely admit to
it, but this does bring cheer to the Congress. The BJP too is playing with fire;
despite public posturing, BJP feels that this might just be the way back to the
glory days of 1990s, when the ideology of Hindutva alone ruled the roost and
they were the big boys in the largest state of India.

BASIC BLUEPRINT

The political marginalisation of the BJP in UP and minor resurgence of the
Congress in 2009, and the consequent riots in 2013 can easily upset UPA's big
plan. BJP would like to keep the pot boiling so as to draw attention away from
legislations which have been recently passed; they would like to focus more on
the issues of identity and scandals that have paralysed the UPA. The Congress
would like to partake a bit without aggravating the situation on the ground.
Lastly, every other issue will come to a grinding halt if the general election
turns presidential.

Narendra Modi as a Prime Ministerial candidate wants the comparison. He would
like to compare his experience with Rahul Gandhi's lack of it. Congress would
like to avoid it, but it will not be able to escape it.

The back- up plan is also ready. Rahul Gandhi is ready with a strategy to engage
tactically with the press. Some say that interaction can give way to planned
interviews, though this has not happened in the past. But this time around, the
challenge itself has walked up to the Congress. LK Advani was relatively easier
deal in 2009 - he could never come out of Vajpayee's shadow, but 2014 is a
different ball game altogether. Not only does it suffer from incumbency of the
past, but also a future that is pregnant with the danger of communal politics
with different parties trying to make the best of it.

The core of the Congress campaign will be to push the welfare agenda of the
party and contrast their vision of development with BJP's

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                          October 23, 2002, Wednesday

Hindu Right threatens to strike Islam

SOURCE: AFP

BYLINE: * Correspondents in New Delhi

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 575 words


AMID growing world concern about Islamic extremists, far-Right Hindu leaders
have stepped up their belligerent and at times racist rhetoric, embarrassing
their allies in the Indian Government.

Hindu hardliners have in recent days made statements harshly critical of India's
minority Muslim community and rival Pakistan, as well as political foes at home.

Praveen Togadia, the secretary-general of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), or
World Hindu Council -- which has ideological ties to Prime Minister Atal Behari
Vajpayee's Hindu-nationalist BJP party -- last week denounced Sonia Gandhi, the
head of the main opposition Congress party, as an "Italian dog".

Mrs Gandhi, the widow of slain former premier Rajiv Gandhi, was born in Italy
but holds Indian citizenship. Some leaders in her Congress party have called for
Mr Togadia's arrest over the personal attack.

But the far-Right's offensive has mostly targeted Muslims. Their remarks have
become more aggressive since the October 12 bombings on Indonesia's
predominantly Hindu island of Bali, which killed more than 180 people and raised
fresh Western concerns about Islamic extremists.

Mr Togadia told Indian reporters on a visit to the western state of Gujarat, the
scene of deadly sectarian riots, that India's Muslims should submit to genetic
tests.

"Since the forefathers of Muslims are Hindus, how can the blood of Arabia flow
in their blood? I advise all Muslims to get themselves tested for their Hindu
origin," he said.

In a common theme for Hindu hardliners, Mr Togadia warned that the religion of
Mahatma Gandhi should not be seen as pacifist.

"You (Muslims) cannot harm the Hindu religion and culture by jihad because
Hindus have the tradition of wearing a garland of flowers, but the Hindu deity
wears a garland of human heads," he said.

More than 1000 people, most of them Muslims, have died in Gujarat this year in
sectarian clashes. The riots broke out after a Muslim mob on February 27 torched
a train carrying Hindu activists, killing 58.

Last month, 31 people were killed at a Hindu temple in Gujarat's capital
Gandhinagar by Islamic militants who Indian authorities claim were supported by
Pakistan.

The riots in Gujarat, the largest state ruled by the BJP, have been an
embarrassment for Mr Vajpayee, as human rights groups have accused his party
members of involvement in vigilante attacks on Muslims.

But the BJP is counting on Hindu votes to stay in power in Gujarat, where the
Government wants early elections.

India's ruling party is already beset by internal divisions over economic
reforms and has been steadily losing ground in state elections. In violence-torn
Kashmir, the BJP lost all but one of its seats in the election that closed this
month.

Amnesty International has said India should use its laws against hate speech to
take action against VHP leader Ashok Singhal over his comments on Gujarat. The
London-based human rights group quoted Mr Singhal saying on October 11: "What
happened in Gujarat will happen in the whole of the country."

And the state Government of Maharashtra, which is allied with Mrs Gandhi's
Congress party, is pressing charges against Shiv Sena leader Bal Thackeray over
his call for Hindu suicide squads to counter Islamic terrorism.

Mr Thackeray, whose party is in Mr Vajpayee's coalition, insists his remarks
were not anti-Muslim but directed at the Prime Minister's failure to curb
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2002 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              117 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 23, 2002, Tuesday

POLICE FIRED INTO CROWD KILLING NINE DURING RIOTS;
 INDIA: PROTESTORS SHOT IN THE HEAD TO BRING DEATH TOLL TO 851 IN WORST
RELIGIOUS VIOLENCE IN A DECADE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 264 words


POLICE fired into a crowd of Muslims during religious clashes in western India,
killing nine people, authorities said yesterday.

At least 18 people were killed on Sunday in the latest wave of sectarian
violence to hit Gujarat state.

Groups were assembling for the Hindu festival of Ramnavami in Ahmadabad, when
clashes erupted among Hindu and Muslims, killing two Hindus, police said.

Stones and petrol bombs were thrown by both sides, and officers opened fire.

Sunday's religious violence took the death toll from India's worst religious
rioting in a decade to 851.

The communal violence began on February 27 when Muslims set fire to a train
carrying Hindus activists returning from a pilgrimage.

Several neighbourhoods were under siege again yesterday by Hindu and Muslim
mobs, who set fire to homes and businesses.

At least 91 people were seriously injured, said police in Ahmadabad, the
commercial hub of Gujarat state.

Eight men and two Muslim women were killed on Sunday when police fired into the
crowd in Gomtipur, an Ahmadabad suburb, hitting all but one of them in the head.

Some policemen suggested the incident was a reaction to the murder of a police
constable, who was stabbed by Muslims in the crowd.

But assistant commissioner of police RB Puwar could not explain why the
protesters were shot in the head.

"There is no reason to think that police fired on these people just to kill
them.

"Our intention was to disperse the mob, but unfortunately they were hit on the
head, " said deputy commissioner of police RJ Savani.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


                              118 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Temple city calm but tense

LENGTH: 405  words

DATELINE: Ayodhya


Ayodhya, Sept. 30 -- An uneasy calm prevails as the people of Faizabad-Ayodhya
wait with baited breath for the historic judgement that may change the future of
this this temple city. "We know that the judgement to be delivered by the
Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court is not a final verdict on the Ram
Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, but it could set the tone and tenor of
things likely to come in future," Bhaskar Das, the mahant of Nirmohi Akhara and
one of the plaintiffs in the case, told 'The Pioneer' here on Wednesday.

The twin city has been turned into a fortress. Securitymen, with rifles slinging
from their shoulders, man the main crossings and the bazaars. Over 15,000
additional policemen have been deployed in Faizabad and Ayodhya. Though District
Magistrate MP Agarwal and SSP RKS Rathore led the flag march in sensitive areas
of the city to instill a sense of confidence among the masses, yet the tension
in the air is perceptible.

"We are not concerned about Faizabad and Ayodhya. Whatever be the verdict, I can
guarantee that there will be no riot here. India may burn after the verdict, but
mark my words, there will be peace in Faizabad and Ayodhya," said Mohd Hasim
Ansari, the lone survivor of the original plaintiffs in this case, said.

"I do not know what is in store for Faizabad and Ayodhya in future. The
demolition of mosque brought this small city on global map and the court verdict
could give a new dimension to this twin city," Hasim added.

The markets remained opened on Wednesday but there was hardly any buyer. The
pilgrims have stopped coming to Ayodhya in view of the verdict.

"The prevailing uncertainty has adversely affected the business of the twin
cities. Few pilgrims have come here. Tourists coming from other parts of the
country have cancelled their programmes, leaving us in a lurch," said Ved
Prakash Gupta, vice-president of Uttar Pradesh Pratinidhi Udyog Vyapar Mandal.

Knowing well that the Temple issue has all the potential to swell the vote bank,
various political parties, including Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress, have
asked their Members of Parliament and legislators to stay put in Faizabad and
Ayodhya to help the administration in maintaining law and order, and peace.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday

India awaits the NaMo Model

LENGTH: 1209  words

DATELINE: India


India, Jan. 16 -- There's something eternal about folktales. No matter how old
they are or how often they are retold, they still remain as relevant as they
were when they were first told. What is most enduring about folktales is that
they are neither culture nor society specific. The stories of Panchatantra are
an example of how the wisdom contained in folktales is not limited to national
borders and transcends cultural barriers. We may believe that folktales belong
to the past and are irrelevant to our times. But it's amazing how they reflect
contemporary mores irrespective of their vintage. For instance, there's a
Cossack folktale I have recounted in the past because it helped explain
attitudes and concerns of our times. That folktale came to mind while watching a
television debate late Friday evening on last week's Vibrant Gujarat investors'
conference in Gandhinagar. So here's the story told all over again.

A young Cossack, who was a gifted horseman, dreamed of owning the best steed in
the village where he lived. So he toiled and saved money to buy his dream horse,
and eagerly waited for the annual animal fair that was held in a nearby village.
At last, the big day came and our young Cossack set off for the fair, dressed in
his Sunday best. He inspected all the horses on sale and finally found a
stallion with a flowing mane, flaring nostrils, rippling muscles and a
glistening white fleece. This was the horse he had dreamt of and toiled for! The
owner asked for a huge sum, our young Cossack paid the money without even
bothering to haggle over the price. Horse bought, its proud new owner mounted
the steed and cantered home. He rode straight to the village square where his
fellow Cossacks gathered every Sunday evening for raucous drunken revelry,
dismounted and called them over to show off his new horse. A collective gasp was
heard as the Cossacks gathered around: None had seen a more handsome stallion
than this. One of them patted the horse and praised his strength; another
counted his teeth and declared he couldn't be more than a year old; a third ran
his fingers through the mane and sighed. The village elder was so impressed that
he declared the stallion the official stud of the village horse collective and
ordered a fresh round of vodka for everybody. Then along came the village cynic,
who was also the local correspondent of Pravda and the designated Cossack
'intellectual'. He walked around the horse, went back to where he had been
sitting sipping vodka, struck a pose similar to Rodin's Thinker, got up after a
while, walked back to the horse, lifted its tail, sniffed and declared, in a
stentorian voice similar to that in which judges give their final verdict, "The
horse stinks."

That verdict of the cynic-intellectual-journalist Cossack, who could see nothing
good about the stallion over which everybody else was swooning and for whom the
ultimate test was to lift the horse's tail and check whether his rear orifice
stank, came to mind while watching the host of the television debate pompously
waving aside the spectacular success of this year's Vibrant Gujarat and
declaring, in a caustic, dismissive voice, that promised investments worth more
than India's foreign exchange reserves mean nothing as the State is still
"haunted by the riots of 2002" and Chief Minister Narendra Modi is "tainted" by
the violence. Amazingly, he kept on repeating this point despite one of the
panellists, a Muslim from Gujarat, forcefully asserting, more than once, that
Gujaratis have moved on, Gujarat has moved ahead. That, in a sense, is the
problem with our Left-liberal journalists, bogus intellectuals,
pseudo-secularists and intellectually bankrupt commentariat without whom south
Delhi would have been just another colony, no different from the colonies of
east Delhi. They remain stuck in 2002 when Gujarat erupted in fury following the
ghastly slaughter of 59 pilgrims returning from Ayodhya who were burned alive
when a coach of Sabarmati Express was set on fire by a Muslim mob at Godhra on
February 27. In the violence that followed, by all means far less gruesome than
communal riots India has seen in Congress-ruled States - the massacres at Nellie
and Bhagalpur come to mind - and nothing comparable to the ghastly anti-Sikh
pogrom of 1984, both Muslims (790) and Hindus (254) were killed. The scale and
magnitude of the violence, which nobody condones, was blown out of proportion
and immeasurably magnified by activists like Teesta Setalvad, who now stands
accused of forgery, perjury and serious fraud, and her ilk, as well as their
myriad admirers in media who seek to mould public opinion by manipulating
information and by repeating the same lie, Goebbels like, a million times and
more.

But the furious rant that emanates from television studios and the campaign of
calumny to which newspapers take recourse when it comes to defaming and
demonising Mr Modi does not, in any manner, reflect the mood in Gujarat or the
popularity of the man whom India's disproportionately empowered Left-liberal
journalists, bogus intellectuals, pseudo-secularists and intellectually bankrupt
commentariat love to hate. Mr Modi, dubbed "maut ka saudagar" by Ms Sonia Gandhi
in a speech drafted by a Bollywood script-writer, has won successive Assembly
elections, decimated the Congress, and taken Gujarat to dizzying heights of
development, growth and prosperity. In recent local elections, more than 100
Muslims contested and won on a BJP ticket. It would be facetious to suggest
people have forgotten 2002; but the present and the future of Gujarat have
dimmed memories of those terrible days. That's how it happens. But not for our
Modi-bashers who are caught in a time-warp and suffer from selective amnesia:
They keep on harping about 2002 as if that year marked the beginning of communal
strife in India. The macabre tantalises them more than anything that is bright,
positive and fruitful.

With last week's Vibrant Gujarat resulting in the signing of MoUs worth $462
billion for projects that would create more than five million new jobs, Gujarat
now glitters among all the States of the Union. It could be argued that not all
the MoUs will fructify. True, but if the trend so far is any indicator, Gujarat
can look forward to more than a third of the promised amount coming in - that
would still mean half of India's foreign exchange reserve and more than a
million new jobs! The 'Modi Model' is working brilliantly for Gujarat; States
like Madhya Pradesh and Bihar which have borrowed elements of that model are
also reaping a rich harvest. India awaits the day when the 'Modi Model' will
become the 'Indian Model' and propel the nation, not only Gujarat, to greater
prosperity for all Indians. Ironically, our Left-liberal journalists, bogus
intellectuals, pseudo-secularists and intellectually bankrupt commentariat will
benefit from that too.

- Follow the writer on: http://twitter.com/KanchanGupta. Blog on this and other
issues at http://kanchangupta.blogspot.com. Write to him at
kanchangupta@rocketmail.com Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                            February 11, 2011 Friday

Basic rights

LENGTH: 260  words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Feb. 11 -- India for its part misread the situation in Sri Lanka and
mistook the Tamil leaders' quest for privileges to be a fight for basic rights.
Hence they decided that the best way to ensure peace in Sri Lanka was to help
the Tamil community, spearheaded by its separatist leaders and separatist
terrorists. Thus India surreptitiously provided the base for the Tamil struggle
but that was in the name of peace.

India's unofficial patronage however did not help Sri Lanka to achieve peace and
instead it resulted in making the situation worse where the South reacted to
terrorism by staging the July '83 riots. Then India decided to officially
intervene in the Sri Lankan situation by enacting the Indo Lanka Accord which
India underwrote as a guarantor of peace.

The tragedy again was that the Indo-Lanka Accord did not bring peace to Sri
Lanka but instead it added a new dimension to the Sri Lankan conflict where the
LTTE was elevated to an 'invincible fighter' status.

The LTTE boosted of having defeated the 4th biggest Army in the world. When the
Indo Lanka Accord was implemented this conflict had taken only 3,561 lives but
since the introduction of the 13th Amendment with the LTTE in a new role the
death toll assumed uncontrollable proportions. Thus what was done in the name of
peace again paved the way for more violence and mayhem. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anger at UK talks with leader who stood by during riots;
India

BYLINE: Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 491 words


Britain has been accused of putting economic expediency before moral
responsibility as it ended a decade-old European boycott imposed after religious
riots in which at least 2,000 people were killed, including three Britons.

James Bevan, the UK High Commissioner to India, held talks with Narendra Modi,
chief minister of Gujarat, in the state capital, Ahmedabad, the first direct
contact with the Hindu nationalist who critics said did little to stop three
days of bloodletting in 2002.

The timing of the visit, two months before state elections, has led to
accusations that Britain is interfering in Indian politics and helping to
rehabilitate the controversial leader. But Mr Bevan insisted that his visit was
"about engagement, it is not about endorsement".

Mr Modi has emerged as the front-runner to lead the main opposition Bharatiya
Janata Party in India's national elections, despite the shadow of the communal
unrest. At the time Mr Modi, then a newly elected state leader, appeared to
justify the violence as Hindus in the state hacked Muslims to death after 58
pilgrims died in a train fire blamed on Islamic arsonists."Every action has an
equal and opposite reaction," he said then. Last month Maya Kodnani, a close
ally, was convicted of instigating one of the most notorious incidents and
jailed for 28 years.

Those still waiting for justice include the families of Saeed and Shakeel Dawood
and Mohammed Aswat, from West Yorkshire, who were caught up in the carnage
during a sight-seeing tour. A former British diplomat who found Saeed Dawood's
charred bones a month later gave evidence in February at the trial of six men
accused of killing the tourists.

Hugo Swire, the Foreign Office minister, said that Mr Bevan would raise the
case, but Saeed's brother said that the family was not consulted and had lodged
a complaint. "We are bewildered by this decision," said Yusuf Dawood, a
chartered surveyor from Cambridge. "Someone somewhere has decided to put
economic considerations first without addressing Gujarat's appalling human
rights record.

Britain entered into a "gentlemen's agreement" with other European nations to
snub Mr Modi in 2002. One EU diplomat said that there had been "raised eyebrows"
at the UK's unilateral ending of the boycott and described the timing as a
"political gift" to Mr Modi.

Mr Modi, who started his political career in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a
bastion of Hindu nationalism, has struggled to shake off the legacy of the
riots. He has been denied a visa to travel to the US since 2005.

However, British Gas and BP both have substantial interests in Gujarat, with the
former in talks with the state-owned fuel firm to build a gas terminal in a deal
worth an estimated £465 million. British diplomats insist that the decision to
end the boycott is not linked to the promotion of any single deal. They
acknowledge, however, that the decision to end the boycott was taken principally
on economic grounds.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Narendra Modi greets James Bevan, who insisted that there was no
endorsement
GUJARAT INFORMATION BUREAU / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday

India's top court criticizes state government for riot

LENGTH: 244 words


India's Supreme Court says Uttar Pradesh government negligent during
Hindu-Muslim riots.   NEW DELHI  India's Supreme Court on Wednesday criticized
northern Indian state Uttar Pradesh's government for failure to protect the
fundamental rights of people during Hindu-Muslim riots in 2013 that killed 60
people.

The court bench headed by India's Chief Justice P. Sathasivam blamed the state
government for "negligence" but rejected the plea for a probe by federal agency
Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a Special Investigation Team. The court
said that all the accused in the Muzaffarnagar riots must be arrested,
irrespective of their political affiliation. The court also said that action
must be taken against police and intelligence officials who failed in their duty
to protect people. The top court directed the state government to pay $16,500
compensation to women who were sexually assaulted and harassed during the riots.
The court was responding to a group of petitions on September's violence, which
alleged that the government was trying to protect the rioters. The communal
riots flared up in Muzaffarnagar district and neighboring villages on September
7, 2013 after a Muslim man was killed by the brother and cousin of a Hindu girl
after allegedly harassing her. The two killers -- from the Hindu Jat community
-- were reportedly lynched by the family of the slain Muslim and others in the
locality. By Mubasshir Mushtaq  englishnews@aa.com.tr

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2014 Andolu Ajansi
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Extremists provoke Hindu-Muslim conflict

BYLINE: Mahmood Elahi, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 437  words


Re: Why this attack should have India worried, Nov. 27.

Extremist Islamists, linked with al-Qaeda and Taliban and their acolytes, have
been trying to provoke Hindu-Muslim riots in India through killing innocent
people, mostly belonging to Hindu majority.

These fanatic Muslims have been slaughtering fellow Muslims in Afghanistan and
Pakistan in the name of their version of Islam. In their perverted minds, the
Islamists think that they have the divine right to kill people in the name of
religion.

When they controlled Afghanistan, the Taliban engaged in the brutal suppression,
including mass executions, of those who did not agree with their interpretation
of Islam; forbade all education for women; engaged in the wholesale destruction
of Afghanistan's rich cultural traditions and provided safe haven to al-Qaeda to
plan and carry out terrorist attacks on America. After their ouster from Kabul,
Taliban and al-Qaeda surrogates have found a safe haven in Pakistan's tribal
areas and are slaughtering both Pakistanis and Afghans in the name of Islam.
They have been bombing hotels, hospitals, and girls' schools in both countries.
Recently, the Taliban carried out dastardly acid attacks on school girls in
Kandahar, blinding two and seriously disfiguring six.

As Prof. Ijaz Hussain, at Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad, wrote in
Pakistan's Daily Times: "The war (against terrorism) also became ours when the
terrorists decided to cause mayhem not only in tribal areas but also across the
length and breadth of Pakistan. The terrorists also seek to incrementally take
over the whole or the part of the state of Pakistan and run it according to
their ideology... The Taliban ideology at present being practised in parts of
Pakistan is nothing but evil incarnate."

Now the evil incarnate al-Qaeda and Taliban and their acolytes have carried out
another dastardly attack on India's biggest city, Mumbai. India is the second
biggest non-Muslim country in the world with a large Muslim minority. By
attacking Mumbai and other cities, al-Qaeda and Taliban and their surrogates are
hoping to provoke a backlash by India's Hindu majority and the brutal Islamists
hope to benefit from the ensuing turmoil.

But the fanatics fail to realize that India is the world's largest democracy and
despite occasional Hindu-Muslim riots, India has the tradition of tolerance and
non-violence left behind by Mahatma Gandhi. This is why India's war against
terrorism is also our war. India must take immediate steps to control its border
with Pakistan and Pakistan must co-operate with India in tracking down the
extremists.

Mahmood Elahi,

Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday

Twitter handle: How and why govt erred and what it can do to be smarter & more
effective

BYLINE: TV Mahalingam & Shantanu Nandan Sharma

SECTION: INTERNET

LENGTH: 1984 words


Here's a weekend reading recommendation for the mandarins who run the Government
of India: it's a freely downloadable, a 145-page long document called "After the
Riots". It is a report by the Riot Communities and Victims Panel, set up by the
British prime minister to study reasons for the cause, spread and the damage
wreaked by the riots that occurred in towns and cities in England in early
August 2011.

During the riots, many British politicians had blamed social media for the quick
spreading of lawlessness. "Everyone watching these horrific actions will be
struck by how they were organised via social media," British Prime Minister
David Cameron had told the British parliament. Others called for social
networking sites to be "switched off". That is perhaps why the word Twitter
features four times in the report, Facebook twice, BBM once and the phrase
'social media' appears 39 times.

So, what did the report have to say about the role of social media in the riots
that tore through England? "Although social media was used to mobilise rioters,
it has also been acknowledged that a number of forces used social media
extensively to engage with their communities and provide reassurance during the
riots," reads the report.

The report also highlights that by using social media to provide and receive
intelligence, social media "can become a crime fighting tool". It shot down the
idea that social media be switched off during times of widespread and serious
disorder. The panel also recommended that every neighbourhood policing team
should acquire social media capability by the end of 2013.

Bangalore Falling

Bangalore's deputy commissioner of police Vincent S D'Souza has had a harrowing
10 days. He had been asking most of his friends to post his mobile number on all
social media networks. D'Souza's message: if anyone from the Northeast feels
insecure in any part of the city, contact him directly.

But by then, the damage was already done. In the three days beginning August 15,
as many as 37,000 people belonging to India's Northeastern region fled the city
after SMS threats spread like a wildfire among the closely-knit Northeastern
communities living in the city.

"A lot of the damage happened through social media. The images of victims of
Tibet earthquakes and Gujarat riots were morphed and passed on as those of Assam
riots. We busted a module in Bangalore. Seized computers and mobiles have given
us enough leads," says D'Souza, who is in charge of intelligence.



(##include msid=4006719,type=11 ##)

Nitin Pai, founder of Takshashila Institution, a think tank, believes that the
current crisis unfolded in two phases. The first phase, says Pai, was the events
(the riots and mobilised violence) that occurred in Assam before August 15. The
second phase, starting August 15, was the flight of Northeastern people from
various parts of India after rumours of attacks began to flow. "To be fair, what
happened between August 15 and August 18 was unprecedented in India," says Pai.

"Perhaps, for the first time, the Indian government had legitimate reasons to
censor speech," says Sunil Abraham, executive director of the Centre for
Internet and Society in Bangalore, adding that even international human rights
treaties like the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR),
of which India is a signatory, provide for restrictions in free speech for the
protection of public order.

However, what most people who have closely followed the events of the last
fortnight, will disagree with is the way in which the government has gone about
playing censor. "The government got in too late and went about too bluntly,"
says Pai.

Subtle as a Sledgehammer

"Given that SMS-based mobilisation isn't new in India (stone-pelting incidents
in Kashmir led to a ban on SMSes since 2010), the government has had almost 2-3
years to put in place the strategy and ability to counter the problem. The
arrests of miscreants spreading rumours through SMSes should have happened
sooner," says Pai.

On August 17, two days after the trains from Bangalore began to fill up, an
advisory signed by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (ICERT) chief
Gulshan Rai cautioned intermediaries that "publishing and hosting of hateful and
inflammatory content is an offence" under Section 69A and 79-3(b) of Information
Technology Act, 2000. The advisory, which lacked specific details such as the
names of the offenders and details of such content, asked all intermediaries to
disable inflammatory and hateful content hosted on their website on "a priority
basis". ICERT falls under the Ministry of Communications and Information
Technology.

"That essentially made intermediaries like ISPs the judges of what was
inflammatory or hate speech and what wasn't," says Abraham. In the following
days, more orders would come, this time from the Ministry of IT and Department
of Telecommunications and they would worsen things even more. These orders were
a lot more specific: they had URLs of websites, Twitter posts and Facebook pages
that were ordered to be blocked.



(##include msid=4006719,type=11 ##)

However, like a Centre for Internet and Society posting revealed: the list
wasn't compiled with enough care. Some items did not exist, others were not even
web addresses and in some case, thanks to overzealous ISPs, whole websites were
blocked instead of a page on the site. One webpage that actually busted doctored
riot pictures was blocked.

What gave teeth to the rumours that the government was using the events of
August 15 to go after its critics was its crackdown on Twitter accounts. First,
the government asked for a list of accounts parodying the PMO's account to be
blocked, on charges of impersonation (which Twitter eventually did on Friday).

On late Wednesday, several other people, including journalists, a tech
entrepreneur, discovered that their accounts had been blocked by some ISPs. Even
as speculation raged if this was the case of yet another trigger-happy ISP, the
government maintained a stony silence, The Economic Times broke the story that
it was a notification issued by Ministry of IT and Department of
Telecommunications that resulted in these blocks. The blocked account holders
meanwhile continued to tweet, thanks to the ISP-level blocks, making the whole
affair shambolic.

Big, Bad Government?

For its part, heavyweights from the government like Sushil Kumar Shinde and
Kapil Sibal have maintained that this was just an effort to censor hate speech
and not free speech. That's a line many are increasingly finding tough to
believe, especially what this government tried to do late last year. In December
2011, Sibal had called a meeting of social networking companies like Facebook,
Twitter and Google and asked them to remove offensive content.

A New York Times report had said that Sibal had showed the companies a page that
maligned Congress president Sonia Gandhi and told them that this was
"unacceptable". After heavy criticism followed Sibal's call to "pre-screen"
content, the government backed off. So, is this government's second attempt to
muzzle voices that it doesn't want heard?

"Perhaps not. It's just government being itself: gauche, clumsy, big-brother
like and swinging a club when it needs to be using a surgeon's knife," says a
cyber security consultant who has worked with the government in the past. "But,
it would be a good idea to keep track if any more blocks or bans come our way.
That would be crucial," he adds.

As for the companies themselves, Facebook and Google have "co-operated" in
removing the "objectionable pages", while Twitter, after taking its time,
knocked off the PMO "impersonators".

Rules of Engagement

Social media is posing challenges and opportunities for governments and law
enforcement agencies across the world. In the developed world, police
departments like the New York Police Department (@nypd) or London's Metropolitan
Police department (metpoliceuk) use Twitter to engage with citizens. They upload
mugs and profiles of suspects, give advisories and ask for retweets of missing
persons' pictures. It's a game Indian authorities have just begun to play.

"At best, cyber monitoring is a reactive intervention. So the strategy must be
how best to live with social media and counter it [misinformation] from within,"
says GK Pillai, former Union home secretary. He suggests that the government
must create a separate department to exclusively tackle issues arising out of
social media and messages.



"If social media is used for any propaganda, the government should use the same
platform to counter it. If one hate message appears, there should be a thousand
to counter it. We can't ban social media the way China has done it. We have to
live with it," he adds.

Social media is a challenge to existing legal frameworks like never before, even
in countries where free speech is protected a lot more than ours. Last week, the
New York Police Department went to court to get Twitter to reveal details of a
person who had tweeted: "people had gonna die like Aurora" at a Broadway
theatre. Initially, Twitter had refused to share details but eventually relented
(after lots of criticism) and the matter was resolved 'without an arrest'.

Things get even more complex, say government officials, because Twitter is a
US-based company and claims that it is beyond India's jurisdiction. "Social
media and disputes associated with it are relatively new areas [for India]. The
US is already engaged in court battles with social media sites. We are a bit
slow on this matter," admits Mohan Parasaran, additional solicitor general of
India.

Centre for Internet and Society's Abraham believes that the government needs to
put in a process which is transparent when it comes to censoring hate speech.
"Even in Saudi Arabia, when you go to a blocked site, reasons are given why the
site is being blocked along with addresses of the offices where redressal can be
sought," says Abraham.

For now, observers say the Indian government needs to learn to engage and
communicate better on social media. "There is a lot of hyperbole out there
because the Indian government doesn't communicate -- what it does and how it
does things -- very well. There is a lot of second-hand information and as a
result a lot of speculation," says Pai. "Basically, the government is trying to
use industrial age policies [like blocking] to solve information age issues," he
adds.

A first step, perhaps, is fine-tuning the guidelines for social media use for
its departments published by the government last week. It will be a big
challenge -- a change of mindset -- for the Indian government which is used more
to monitoring and posturing than engaging.

When the law & social media worlds intersect, the results can be not so
pleasant. Here are a few examples:

1) An anonymous tweet that people were going to "die like Aurora" at Broadway
show had the New York police department worried. So, the police approached
Twitter for details about the account, which Twitter turned down. After some
criticism, Twitter shared the details. The matter was resolved "without an
arrest".

2) In Early 2010, Paul Chambers was stranded at Robin Hood Airport, south
Yorkshire, thanks to cancellation of flights due to heavy snowfall. "Crap! Robin
Hood airport is closed. You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together
otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high," he tweeted. He was charged, asked
to pay a fine and lost his job. However, two appeals later, Chambers conviction
was overturned.

3) When footballer Fabrice Muamba collapsed on the field after suffering a heart
attack, 21-year-old Liam Stacey posted a vile, racist remark on Twitter about
Muamba. When others questioned him, Stacey was combative and a case was
registered against him. Even though Stacey admitted that he was drunk and that
he was sorry, a court sentenced him to a 56-day imprisonment.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

Narendra Modi addresses floating voters through his clever blog

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 377 words


His blog on Gujarat riots and how he saw himself in that context won't end the
debate on Narendra Modi -- will anything end the debate? -- but even his
bitterest rivals will concede there's considerable political smarts behind the
BJP PM candidate's intervention. Having tweeted on Thursday that he will share
his thoughts after a Gujarat lower court absolved him of yet another 2002 riot
case, Modi kept his word and his words are worth careful scrutiny, for
supporters and critics alike. Modi is addressing three constituencies in this
intervention: one blog, three very different messages.

To his core supporters, he's saying, look, I haven't changed my stand, I never
said I should personally apologise for 2002, and I haven't. To those who like
some of his other attributes -- "leadership", "development man", "doer of
things" -- he's saying, look, I grieved for riot victims, I understood a
terrible thing happened, I was anguished but suffered in private, because I had
a state to run and, therefore, my staunch critics who accuse me of insensitivity
or worse are clearly wrong. To those staunch critics, Modi is saying, I am not
giving in to you, no matter how hard you come at me.

The second constituency, floating voters, is the most important one for Modi.
His core supporters and staunch critics won't change their mind -- he's that
kind of a political personality. Therefore, his blog and likely similar future
interventions will be judged a success only if this group feels he's a softer
political personality than he has mostly come across.

Economic empowerment is a big voter concern in India, but so is maintaining
social peace. If it's fair to say Modi is ahead of Congress right now in getting
out the message on economics, it's also fair to say Congress is generally
considered less questionable when it comes to social peace, 1984 riots
notwithstanding. The weeks leading to general elections will, therefore, be even
more fascinating: there will be more iterations of the "image makeover which is
not quite an image makeover" attempt that Modi has made today, and we'll get a
rough idea of popular responses to those attempts. Modi has offered Modi 1.5 to
India, not Modi 2.0. India will judge whether that's enough.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Arun Jaitley's 5 point rebuttal to Rahul Gandhi's 'confused' interview

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 1270 words


NEW DELHI: In a scathing attack on Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi's first
television interview, Senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley on Tuesday questioned,
"What has Rahul Gandhi to offer to this country?" or "Is he too confused to get
into the specifics and therefore goes into the generalities?"

According to Jaitley, the 'most startling statement in the interview' was, "I am
absolutely against the concept of dynasty, anybody who knows me knows that and
understands that." "Surely Mr. Gandhi you don't expect India to believe you on
that," Jaitley mocked.

In a point-by-point rebuttal to the Gandhi scion's interview, Jaitley said that
Congress Vice President has 'exposed his own inadequacies'. Here is what Jaitley
had to say on the various comments that Rahul Gandhi made in his interview with
Times Now.

1) No PM candidate for Congress: "The answer was clearly unconvincing. We all
know that the MPs of the ruling party alone elect a leader, who is the Prime
Minister. We equally know that projecting shadow Prime Ministers is neither
unconstitutional nor extra-constitutional. It happens all over the world," said
Jaitley.

What Rahul Gandhi had said: "Democracy is about non-arbitrary decisions.
Democracy is about spreading decisions; it is not about destroying processes.
There is a process in the constitution and that process says, and it is clearly
written in the constitution, and it says members of parliament are to be elected
by the population and members of parliament are to elect the Prime Minister. All
I am doing is respecting that process."

2) On changing the system and empowerment of people: What does Rahul Gandhi have
in mind, asked Jaitley. "If Rahul Gandhi was a member of any other political
party he would still be struggling to become a party office bearer. He needs to
speak about the Congress Party needing a change and not the whole system," said
Jaitley.

"We are a parliamentary democracy. That is the system best suited for India.
Which is the alternative system that Rahul Gandhi has in mind. He says he
believes in democracy, in opening up the system, in RTI and giving power to the
people. These are his differences with Narendra Modi," he said.

"I doubt very much if these are seriously areas of difference. Everybody in
Indian politics has to believe in democracy, openness and in empowering the
people. Why should he give himself a self-certification that he believes in RTI
and empowerment. The fact that candidates are decided by a few people may be
happening in the Congress Party. In the BJP the block units and district units
recommend candidates to the State units. The State Units bring them to the
Central Election Committee," he added.

"It is only after extensive consultation that the candidates are decided. Even
for the Prime Ministerial candidate we have gone through an informal process of
galaxy of leaders being presented before the party and the people and the most
suitable one is finally declared. The de facto Prime Ministerial candidate of
the Congress Party is decided on the basis of the family he belongs to," he
substantiated.

What Rahul Gandhi had said: "What I feel is that this country needs to look at
the fundamental issues at hand, the fundamental political issue at hand is that
our Political system is controlled by too few people and we absolutely have to
change the way our political system is structured, we have to change our
Political parties, we have to make them more transparent, we have to change the
processes that we use to elect candidates, we have to empower women in the
political parties, that is where the meat of the issue but I don't hear that
discussion, I don't hear the discussion about how are we actually choosing that
candidate, that is never the discussion."

3) India a manufacturing hub: What has the UPA done in the last 10 years in this
regard, the BJP leader asked. "China's core competence is low cost
manufacturing. Consumers prefer to buy goods which are cheaper. To make the
manufacturing sector in India competitive, the manufacturing sector needed to be
incentivized in terms of a modest interest rate regime, a world class
infrastructure, competitive cost of utilities particularly power, trade
facilitation, a globally competitive taxation regime, quick decision making and
labour regime flexibility," opined Jaitley.

"Even though the last of these is politically more challenging, has the UPA
government even moved an inch with regard to the other reforms required. The
answer is a clear No," said Jaitley emphatically.

What Rahul Gandhi had said: "I want to put India on the manufacturing map, I
want to make this the centre of manufacturing in the world. I want to make this
place at least as much as a manufacturing power as China."



4) Comparison between 1984 riots & 2002 riots in Gujarat: Where did Rahul Gandhi
get this idea that in 1984 there was no participation of the State, the leader
mocked.

Explaining his stance, Jaitley said, "In 1984 a slogan 'Khoon ka Badla Khoon'
started in the afternoon of 31st October 1984 at the AIIMS where Mrs.Gandhi's
body lay. Congress leaders were seen leading the mobs. Sikhs were massacred at
thousands of places. No where did the police fire a single bullet to disperse
mobs. Cases were not investigated. A Commission of Inquiry was constituted which
came with a sham report. The Judge heading the Commission was subsequently made
a Congress Party's Member of the Rajya Sabha. Justice evades the victims even
now."

"In Gujarat thousands of people were arrested. The badly over-powered police
fired at several places. Almost 300 rioters were killed in police firing.
Thousands of prosecutions were filed. Hundreds of people have been sentenced.
The Chief Minister of the State Government personally went through several
inquiries including the Supreme Court constituted SIT and no evidence was found
against him," he said.

What Rahul Gandhi had said: "The Gujarat riots took place, people died, Mr.
Narendra Modi was in charge of Gujarat at that point," Rahul had said.

Asked about the 1984 riots, Gandhi said, "The fact of the matter is that
innocent people died in 1984 and innocent people dying is a horrible thing and
should not happen. The difference between Gujarat and 1984 was that the
Government of Gujarat was involved in the riots."

"The difference between the 1984 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the Government was trying to stop the riots. In Gujarat the opposite was the
case. The Government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots
further," Gandhi had said.

5) On Corruption: Jaitley slammed Congress for tying up with a convicted leader
in Bihar. "Without Lalu Prasad Yadav there is no RJD. Rahul Gandhi has looked
the other way when it comes to allegations against Chief Minister of Himachal
Pradesh Shri Vir Bhadra Singh. He pays lip sympathy to probity when former CM of
Maharashtra Ashok Chavan is bailed out. He chooses to keep quiet on the 2G
spectrum allocation and the coal blocks allocation. He believes that some
legislations will resolve the menace of corruption," Jaitley said.

What Rahul Gandhi had said: "As far as any corruption done, there is a legal
process. And that legal process should be followed and concluded. As far as my
personal view is concerned, anybody who is corrupt should be brought to book."

"Our alliance in Bihar is with a political party with an idea not an individual,
we are making alliance, and it is not certain that we are going to make an
alliance, we are in process of talking to people and our alliance is with an
idea, with a party, not an individual."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             April 22, 2014 Tuesday

Lok Sabha polls 2014: Fear is the byword in Assam's Kokrajhar

BYLINE: Bikash Singh

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 862 words


GUWAHATI: A large section of Muslim minority is flummoxed as what is there
future while the Bodos quest for separate state continues and large number of
non Bodo population are resolutely attempting to gain political muscle and the
stage is set for the polls in Kokrajhar Lok Sabha constituency in Assam which
goes to ballot on April 24 .

Kokrajhar the corridor to Northeast India had a history of riots each leaving
its imprints on the mind of people residing in area. There were series of
clashes between Bodos and Adivasis between 1996 and 1998. Bodos and muslims
minorities have clashed in 1953, 1993 and 1994. Latest the ethnic riot between
Bodo and Bengali speaking Muslim of 2012 which killed over 100 people and left
over four lakh displaced.

Bodoland riot 2012 riot engulfed different places of India and led to counter or
reverse exodus of Northeasterners from different places of South India and other
areas of India. What magnified the ethnic conflagration into full blown national
problem was the bulk SMS and social media thereby triggering the largest exodus
of mankind in post Independence era.

Rights body Asian Centre for Human Rights (ACHR) has claimed that over 50,000
people from North East India have fled to their homelands in the wake of threats
being issued following the riots in Western Assam. Thousands have fled from
Bangalore, Pune, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mysore, Mumbai, Nasik and Aurangabad.

The exodus triggered by threat SMS/MMS was largely restricted to professionals
engaged in blue color jobs. There are around 3.5 lakh Northeast people in
Karnataka alone.

Kokrajhar has been the hot bed of militancy. It has seen how one group has
mainstreamed and other has propped up thereby the never-ending saga of
insurgency continues. Seeking answer to ills and the panacea to its long drawn
problem, the 15 lakh voters of this trouble torn constituency are yearning for
peace.

Given the tough battle which the constituency is witnessing, Congress ally in
state government Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF) has given ticket to transport
minister, Chandan Brahma to contest from Kokrajhar axing Sansuma Khungur
Bwiswmuthiary the four time parliamentarian.

BPF formed after disbanding erstwhile Bodo Liberation Tigers (BLT) in ruling the
sixth scheduled area of Bodoland Territorial Autonomous Area districts (BTAD).

Influential leader Bwiswmuthiary is contesting as an independent candidate,
starting his new innings in politics once a dreaded ULFA militant leader, Heera
Sarania is also in the fray. Heera is contesting polls in his real name, Naba
Kumar Sarania. Sarania is backed by Obodo Suraksha Samiti (OSS), a BTAD- based
non-Bodo organization which is strongly against creation of Bodoland. However
pro talk ULFA faction has expelled him from the organization and has asked
voters not to vote Hira.

Former National security guards chief and Governor of Meghalaya, R. S Mooshary
is having political baptism and contesting the seat as All India Trinamool
Congress (AITC) candidate.

On ceasefire, militant outfit, National Democratic Front of Boroland-Progressive
(NDFB-P) along with four other organizations including All Bodo Students' Union
which is spearheading movement for separate state of Bodoland has supported
independent candidature of Urkhao Gwra Brahma. Another independent candidate in
the fray is Sabda Ram Rabha. Chandan definitely has a edge over other candidates



Already the pre poll violence has surcharged the atmosphere in the area with as
many 25 cases being registered and 100 people arrested for poll related
violence.

Nazimuddin Siddique, doctoral research scholar at Gauhati University who is
doing research on Bodoland riots rued that non Bodos are still second class
citizen in Bodoland. "Non Bodos residing there are really scared. Two weeks back
there are incident and this was enough to prompt a group to leave its village,
this shows the kind of fear in which people are living there."

He added that non Bodos in Bodoland are voiceless." It is true that they have
put a candidate but again he is militant pitted against former militants of BLT
who mainstreamed now and ruling the autonomous council."

Political analyst pointed out that growing aspiration for separate state of
Bodoland and demographic changes which BTAD has witnessed in last several years
being close to international border areas with Bangladesh has often provided
fodder to the theory of illegal immigration from Bangladesh.

AHRC had stated that illegal immigration based on 26 March 1971 as the cutoff
date is not the immediate raison d'etre for the recent riots in the BTAD,
Kokrajhar district bore the brunt of migration more than Assam.

AHRC added that irrespective of whether the explosive decadal growth rate in
Kokrajhar district was a consequence of migration and/or illegal immigration,
its impact was clear: it caused massive land alienation amongst the Bodos in
clear violation of the Chapter X of the Assam Land Revenue Regulation 1886.

Legal activist, Saito Basumarthy puts it Kokrajhar needs a good and visionary
political leader capable to dealing with several issues confronting the conflict
ridden society here.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                              July 4, 2014 Friday

India fears growth of fundamentalism in Sri Lanka after riots

BYLINE: Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 391 words


NEW DELHI: Security experts have expressed serious concerns over the recent
riots in Sri Lanka, and have stressed the need for Colombo to take steps to
control the situation, fearing that riots may be exploited by 'foreign elements'
wanting to carry out a terror strikes in southern states of India.

Delhi is equally apprehensive the riots may have been encouraged by elements
wanting to create a situation whereby the affected Muslims in Sri Lanka get
marginalised and thereby offer a breeding ground for recruiting terror
operatives. The matter, which did not get much media coverage in India, is
likely to be raised with Colombo on an urgent basis, an official source told ET.

The fears have got compounded with the recent admission of the Sri Lankan
Foreign Minister GL Peiris about 'foreign instigation' behind the communal riots
and killing in different parts of Sri Lanka. As many as 119 people, including 95
Sinhalese and 24 Muslims, have already been arrested in connection with the
riots by Sri Lankan authorities. Lankan Criminal Investigation Department (CID)
has been grilling the General Secretary of Bodu Bala Sena (BBS) or Army of
Buddhist Forces, Galagoda Atthe Gnanasara, and its National Organiser,
Witharandeniye Nanda, for the riots that have killed several and injured many.

Counter-terrorism experts are uncomfortable with the silence of Jamaat-ud-Dawa
Chief Hafiz Saeed, and see a larger game plan of the ISI/Lashkar to wait and
watch before going on a Jehadi recruitment drive.

Indian security & intelligence agencies need to analyse whether this is yet
another attempt by the former Lashkar-e-Taebbya boss Saeed to use the riots for
religious indoctrination in the island nation and try to encircle India. This
will further prompt Delhi to move Colombo on the issue, as the aggrieved
nationals could be brainwashed to join extremist groups, an official hinted.

Sri Lanka, on its part, would need to review its bilateral engagement with
Pakistan, to prevent its socio-ethnic fabric, which is yet to heal from the
wounds of the 'LTTE era', to get re-scarred with a possibly more damaging
'Islamic radicalisation'.

The worries of India are not without reason, considering it comes close on heels
of the arrest of Sri Lankan national Mohammed Sakir Husain's who recced India
for terror strikes.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Wining Indian Muslims' trust

BYLINE:  Hem Raj Jain - India

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Vol. XXII No. 322

LENGTH: 345  words


Thousands of victims of Gujarat riots 2002 (including refugees) are desperately
pining for justice but it is eluding them for the simple reason that no body is
prepared in India to get the legally expected & effective remedy as is
enunciated in my following Petition to Chief Justice of Supreme Court of India
(SCI) and Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court (GHC).

Even Muslims and their organizations are also not mustering enough courage for
this (mainly due to fear of Hindu backlash, also in view of fall-out of legally
expected accountability of military and central government in case of riots,
though this is the most effective remedy to stop any riot).

Also India is unnecessarily sensitive in denying access of UNHCHR in its legal
proceedings even in cases of blatant human rights violations. This is evident
from Teesta Setalwad (from Human right NGO, Citizens for Justice and Peace)
episode where a SCI Bench reprimanded Teesta for having approached the United
Nations High Commission on Human Rights (UNHCHR) based in Geneva.

Therefore till OP-1 is repealed and changed into MP-1 of ICCPR (which will allow
UNHCHR's intervention in member countries in case of blatant violation of human
rights), the USA & Allies for the sake of foreigners (Gujarat riots 2002
victims) can move SCI and GHC by filing following writ petitions (PIL) and also
National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) of India, Gujarat State Human Rights
Commission (GSHRC) and National Commission for Minorities (NCM) through
following complaints.

Notwithstanding Teesta episode, USA & Allies may also move UN / UNHCHR to
contact NHRC about matters related to the justice to the thousands of victims of
Gujarat riots 2002. It does not require a genius of political science to
understand that these PILs and complaints by USA & Allies (directly and through
UN) will go a long way in establishing credibility of USA & Allies through UN,
in India. And also this will help them in gaining trust of Muslims in SAARC
region and world-over, including in NAME countries where democratic uprising is
going-on.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                             March 16, 2014 Sunday

India's Rahul Gandhi predicts bigger election win than 2009

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 418 words


New Delhi: Rahul Gandhi on Sunday forecast a bigger win for India's ruling
Congress party in next month's elections than it secured last time, rejecting
comments by senior party members that they face an uphill battle.



Rahul Gandhi, frontrunner to be prime minister should Congress win, predicted
the party would surpass its tally of seats secured at the 2009 national
elections, rejecting opinion polls showing it headed for a humiliating loss.

Acknowledging that after a decade in power, "there is a certain amount of
anti-incumbency against us", Rahul Gandhi disagreed with Finance Minister P.
Chidambaram that Congress was the "underdog".

"Congress is fighting a challenging election and we will win the election,"
Rahul Gandhi told the Press Trust of India in an interview. "I am not a
soothsayer but we will do well," he said.

Although he declined to predict the number of seats, Rahul Gandhi said the
figure would be higher than the 206 Congress won in the 543-seat national
parliament in 2009, when it formed a coalition government.

Rahul Gandhi also hit out at arch rival Narendra Modi, widely tipped to win the
elections, claiming he still has many questions to answer about his links to
deadly riots in the western state of Gujarat where he is chief minister.

Rahul Gandhi said there was a "clear and inexcusable failure" of governance in
Gujarat where more than 1,000 people, mainly Muslims, were killed in riots in
2002 after Modi took office in 2001.

"The specific allegation and evidence pointing to Mr Modi's responsibility in
the 2002 riots are yet to be adequately probed. Any talk of his having been
given a clean chit (slate) may be politically expedient, but is far too
premature," he said.

"There are many unanswered questions. There is a lot more the country needs to
know."

Modi has denied wrongdoing and has been cleared by legal inquiries, but
allegations that he failed to stop the riots continue to dog the prime
ministerial candidate.

Modi and his opposition Bharatiya Janata Party are expected to come to power on
a platform of economic revival following the world's biggest elections starting
on April 7.

The elections have pitted Rahul Gandhi, vice-president of Congress and scion of
India's political dynasty, against Modi, the son of a tea-stall owner.

Voting will take place in nine phases until May 12 with counting and results
expected four days later on May 16.

© Muscat Press and Publishing House SAOC 2014 Provided by Syndigate.info, an
Albawaba.com company

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday

Team India has new frontiers to traverse

LENGTH: 701  words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 1 -- Despite the limited-overs successes of the past decade and the
time spent as the No.1-ranked side in Test cricket, the Indian team still has
new frontiers to traverse. They have yet to win a series in Australia or South
Africa. They have lost seven of the ten times they have toured Australia -
parity was last achieved a decade ago - and the last series in South Africa,
their fifth, was the first time they had avoided defeat there.

As the team journeys to South Africa again, not too much should be made of the
overall record there - seven losses in 15 Tests. The last two series (2006-07
and 2010-11) were ferociously contested, with India having opportunities to win
both. In 2006-07, after being routed in the ODI series, the team arrived at the
Wanderers for the first Test considered no-hopers. But after Tendulkar, Dravid,
Laxman and Ganguly, with help from VRV Singh, had guided them to a modest total,
Sreesanth and Zaheer Khan skittled South Africa for just 84. They would go on to
win by 123 runs.

Defeat in Durban meant that the teams went to Cape Town all square. When India
took a 41-run lead on first innings, on a surface not too different from those
found on the subcontinent, they were clear favourites. But with Tendulkar and
Dravid strangely passive - they added just 24 in 15.1 overs - the momentum
shifted. The last seven wickets fell for 55, and South Africa eased past the
target of 211 with five wickets to spare.

The pain of that defeat was exacerbated by Munaf Patel bowling just one over in
the second innings. He had convinced the team management of his fitness, leading
to the second spinner being omitted, and there was fury as he was quickly
reduced to a hobbling non-factor.

They have lost seven of the ten times they have toured Australia - parity was
last achieved a decade ago - and the last series in South Africa, their fifth,
was the first time they had avoided defeat there.

Four years later, Zaheer was injured and missing at Centurion as India were
routed by an innings. Though sections of the Indian media embarrassed themselves
by focussing solely on Tendulkar's 50th Test hundred, the gulf between the two
sides was scarily large. It was hard to foresee just how it could be bridged.

Yet, just a week later, in Durban, it was. On a seam-friendly pitch where South
Africa were expected to run riot, India dominated, helped in no small measure by
Laxman's masterly 96. No other batsman on either side crossed 40. The lasting
image of that Indian win will be of Jacques Kallis jackknifing in mid-air as a
delivery from Sreesanth reared up at his glove before lobbing to gully.

Kallis, though, would be the thorn in Indian sides on his home turf at Newlands.
Having made 161 in the first innings and then seen Tendulkar (146) steer India
to a two-run lead, he batted with a severe rib injury as India and Harbhajan
Singh quickly seized control. At one stage, South Africa were 130 for 6 in their
second innings. But Kallis, face contorted with pain after most strokes, defied
India for more than six hours, adding 211 with Mark Boucher and the tail. On the
final day, India downed shutters and played for the draw.

Three years on, South Africa are even stronger than they were then. India's
line-up is unrecognisable. Tendulkar's recent retirement means that only
Cheteshwar Pujara remains from the top six that played that Cape Town Test. That
lack of experience could be a drawback, but it also means that the current squad
goes with a clean slate, and no personal memories of past traumas.

First though, there is a three-match ODI series to negotiate. Though they
reached the World Cup final in South Africa in 2003, India's record in bilateral
ODIs there is dismal, with just five wins and 19 defeats in 25 games. The last
time they toured, they led 2-1 before losing 3-2. Virat Kohli was India's best
batsman in that series. These days, he's probably the best in the world. He'll
need to show it over the coming weeks as India seek to create history.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Modi, Gujarat riots and beyond

LENGTH: 1084  words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR


PESHAWAR, May 15 -- THE media is lining up to interview the much anticipated
next prime minister of India, the BJP nominee for the post, Narendra Modi. Since
the number game will remain uncertain till the election results are announced on
the evening of May 16, he has been extra careful in taking positions on crucial
issues.

The questions about which Modi has been the most evasive are related to his role
in the Gujarat's Hindu-Muslim riots of 2002. He was the chief minister of the
state at that time and has been in the same position since 2001, winning four
elections in a row. In his successive interviews during the current election
campaign, he has not given in to the calls to apologise over the worse communal
killings in India's recent past.

The courts in India have not been able to pin him down on any count of
complicity in the riots. This however does not exonerate him in the popular
imagination and this unforgiving position is not exclusive to common Indian
Muslims alone.

"I have no doubt about the role he played in inciting violence and then letting
the situation worsen to the point that communities took it to the streets. His
was not the role of a hapless onlooker, for sure," says Zahir Janmohamed in an
interview with media in Ahmadabad recently.

Zahir is an Indian-American or to be more specific a Gujarati-American. His
grandparents had migrated to Tanzania in 1920s and set up a business in the
African country. His parents were born there. At the time of Partition the rest
of his Kacchi-Khoja family migrated from Gujarat to Karachi. He is the third
generation of this migrant family that is raised in US. As a young man, curious
about his family roots he flew to India to reconnect with his past at the most
unfortunate of the times. He landed in February 2002 just days before the riots
broke out.

"Since I have no relatives here, I was staying with a Hindu friend family," says
Zahir adding, "that gave me ample opportunity to see it from both sides." He
believes that Modi's gestures and actions during and after the incident were
catalytic, if not the main igniter, of the majority's furore.

The communal riots in Gujarat had broken out when a train carrying back Hindu
pilgrims from the controversial Ram Mandir - Babri Mosque site in Ayodhya was
burnt down by arsonists at Godhra town, killing 59 including 40 children on the
morning of Feb 27, 2002. "On the same evening Modi blamed it on 'terrorists' and
called it a pre-planned act. That was as good as pointing finger towards
Muslims," says Zahir adding that 9/11 had happened just months ago and
bracketing Muslims with terrorism was the dominant media trend. "Why were the
dead bodies of Godhra victims were flown into Ahmadabad, from a distance of 300
kilometres and put on display," he raised another grave question.

Gujarat's capital, Ahmadabad was the worst hit by the riots that spread all over
the state in a matter of days. Various estimates put the total death toll
between one to two thousands. Muslims of Ahmadabad had to leave their homes and
take refuge in camps set up in the city by the community. "Though he went to
Godhra, he never visited a camp," Zahir charged.

"What was even more painful for me was that the society stood sharply divided.
There was little empathy on the other side of the divide. Since I have large
circle of Hindu friends, I would spend the day volunteering in refugee camps and
then would go attend a marriage ceremony with my hosts and friends in the
evening," laments Zahir.

Deeply scarred by the traumatic experience, Zahir went back to US late in 2002.
He came back to the city nine years later to study communalism in the
perspective of 2002 riots in more detail and is writing a book on the subject.
"Ghettoisation of Muslims is one thing that has redrawn the map of this
metropolis," he said briefing me about the trends in residential preferences of
Muslims by marking circles and lines on the map of Ahmadabad.

"This has turned Juhapura into a Muslim majority area. The minority is the
majority here. That's the only way they could feel riot-safe now," he says. "A
whole generation is being brought up in here, interacting mainly internally.
They cower when they go out. They have become more conservative in their
approach towards faith and society," he says.

Zahir has been intermittently living in Juhapura since his return in 2011. The
Muslim ghetto has an estimated population of 200,000. "The ghetto and the
community are stereotyped and demonised at large scale," says Zahir quoting
anecdotes of the rickshaw drivers advising him to not to go to the 'dangerous
dungeon' of a place, Juahapura. "They are aghast when I tell them in my American
accent that I live there."

The spectre of communalism has been instrumental in making the majority
internalise a perceived threat of dominance by a minority. Zahir compared the
situation with one in the West where white majorities are apprehensive of a
'takeover' by its coloured minorities. "The point of grudge here is however not
Muslims' economic condition or educational qualification but the misplaced
concept that they 'run child making factories' and will ultimately outnumber
them," he laughed elaborating that Muslims in Gujarat are around 9 per cent
while the over 80 per cent majority is of Hindus.

Zahir refused many publishers who wanted to market his upcoming book before the
current elections that are marked by the so-called 'Modi wave'. "Modi did not
invent communalism. There is no doubt that he has been able to put it to
personal political use but they were there in Gujarat, and in India, since at
least decades," says Zahir explaining further, "it is not right to see the whole
phenomenon in the shadow of one personality and reduce it to whether he was
responsible or not or to the question that whether he qualifies to be prime
minister or not on this count. They won't go away if he does not become the
prime minister."

Zahir may be right in his refusal to see communalism in India and the 2002
Gujarat riots from the eyeholes in the Modi mask, the most popular of his
election campaign gimmicks. But days before the announcement of election results
in one of the most important developing countries, the bigger question remains
unanswered - is the world ready to see Modi without his communal past

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            April 12, 2012 Thursday

India sentences 18 to life in jail for 2002 riots;
India orders life sentences for Hindus who killed 23 Muslims during 2002
religious riots

SECTION: A; Pg.2

LENGTH: 273  words


NEW DELHI (AP) - An Indian court on Thursday sentenced 18 Hindus to life
imprisonment for killing 23 Muslims during the country's worst sectarian
violence in recent years.

The men were part of a rampaging mob that set a house on fire and prevented the
mostly women and children inside from escaping during religious riots in western
India in 2002.

The weekslong riots in Gujarat state were sparked by a train fire that killed 60
Hindus and was blamed on Muslims. More than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died
or went missing as Hindu mobs rampaged through towns and villages. Tens of
thousands were left homeless as rioters set fire to Muslim homes and businesses.

Last week, after a four-year-long investigation, the special court found the 18
guilty of setting on fire the house in Ode village where the Muslims had taken
shelter.

District Judge Poonam Singh sentenced them to life imprisonment for murder and
five other men to seven years in prison for rioting in Ode and chasing Muslims
from their homes.

The attorney for the 18 men, Ashwin Dhagad, said they would appeal the sentence
to a higher court.

Rights groups and survivors accused the Gujarat government, led by Chief
Minister Narendra Modi of the Hindu right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, of not
doing enough to stop the riots.

Earlier this week, a Gujarat court said that a special investigating team had
found no evidence linking Modi to another massacre in which 69 people were
killed in an apartment complex in the state capital during the 2002 riots. The
widow of a prominent Muslim leader killed in that attack had accused Modi of not
responding to repeated phone calls for help.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           December 31, 2013 Tuesday

Fast-forward 2014

LENGTH: 1391 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Dec. 31 -- The season's greeting of Happy New Year, uttered with
utmost enthusiasm and boundless hope, reflects man's innate desire for fresh
beginnings and a sudden end to what is humdrum or painful. Yet it is impossible
to divide time other than on calendars and dials of watches; the past invariably
shadows the future, often in ways we do not anticipate, and ghosts we think have
been laid to rest return to torment us.

So it was at the fag-end of 2012, when Delhi erupted over the gang-rape of a
physiotherapy intern, persuading us into believing the nation had turned the
corner on gender justice. Anti-rape laws were made stringent. Yet, within weeks
of new laws being enacted, the rape of a five-year-old rocked Delhi, as did that
of a journalist in the city of Mumbai months later. Do such incidents suggest
our society is impervious to change? Or does the expression of outrage indicate
that we are no longer indifferent to the plight of women in the public domain?

From either of these perspectives, we can view the decision of a legal intern to
go public with her allegation of harassment against former Supreme Court judge
AK Ganguly, as also the resolve of the journalist who took on her editor, Tarun
Tejpal, for sexually assaulting her. Societal change or not, the glare of media
spotlight ensured the accused- both, powerful- did not slip behind their armor
of privileges that bestows immunity from intense legal and public scrutiny.

Hurrah, then? Not really, for the past returned wearing a new guise, ironically,
around the time India was commemorating the first death anniversary of the
physiotherapist. On a chilly December day, Khurshid Anwar, executive director of
the Delhi-based Institute for Social Democracy, an NGO, jumped from the fourth
floor of his apartment building to die instantaneously. Months earlier, an
activist had accused Anwar of raping her. She did not file a police complaint.
Instead, she video-taped her statement about the incident to academician Madhu
Kishwar and disappeared from the city. The video found its way to two TV
channels, which promptly set to telecast parts of it, triggering a virulent
campaign against Anwar on social media. Deemed guilty without getting a chance
to defend himself, he committed suicide. His death belatedly prompted many,
including women, to condemn the culture of trial by media, harping on the need
to observe the due legal process.

The suicide of Anwar challenges the manner in which the society, increasingly
sensitized to violence against women, responds to allegations of rape. Are we to
presume all such charges are true and credible and the media justified in
pillorying the accused? Is it possible the anti-rape laws could be misused, as
the anti-Dowry Act is in many instances? Such questions will continue to haunt
us in 2014, even as sexual predators will discover their victims rising laudably
against them.

They survived the bloody riots in September, but the winter chill seems
determined to do some real harm to over 50,000 people displaced during the
Muzaffarnagar riots and now living in dozen-odd relief camps. One of these -
Malakpur relief camp in Shamli district - in pictures offers no respite to
riot-affected people - women, aged and children alike. The December chill has
reportedly claimed lives of 34 children so far. More are likely to lose the
battle against damp and dew in the coming month not because the winter will get
harsher but because those in the seats of power have already displayed their
callous attitude for the plight of the victims - living under tarpaulin covers
for three months now. These images reflect the minimum protection that the riot
victims have against the brutal winter, and cold response from the concerned
authorities. (Photo: IANS)

The riots in Muzaffarnagar will go off the headlines in 2014, leaving the
survivors of violence and rape to relive repeatedly the horrors they
experienced. Yet, Muzaffarnagar will become the petri-dish for the virus of
communal hatred to grow and multiply, to drive a schism among communities living
together, and attempt at consolidating the Hindus against 'the other', the
Muslims. This divide the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will harness, as it has
done through its public felicitation of the accused, to bolster its chances in
the electorally-crucial state of Uttar Pradesh in the General Elections.

No doubt, the BJP and its prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, will go
for broke in 2014, hoping to exploit the debilitated and discredited Congress to
emerge as the leading party in the General Election. However, contrary to the
popular belief, the BJP will not forget its Hindutva past: it will be presented
to the electorate in the glossy wrappings of development.

Indeed, all those who believe Modi merely symbolises development and
decisiveness have drawn their conclusion from his campaign as showcased in 2013,
when Modi did not have to hark back to Hindutva for three reasons. One, the
popular anger against the Congress had turned into a tide, and the BJP chief
ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh had governed reasonably well to
ensure anti-incumbency did not stump them. Two, these two states and Rajasthan
witness a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP, and the raging
disaffection against one translates into gains for the other. Three, the Muslim
factor in these three states is not as significant as it is in Uttar Pradesh and
Bihar.

As India inches closer to the General Elections, we will witness the past
returning. For Modi to become the Prime Minister, it is vital the BJP
dramatically improves upon its 2009 performance in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,
where the Congress isn't even in the hunt. It must, for one, wean away the
middle and lower caste supporters from regional leaders - Mayawati, Mulayam
Singh Yadav, Lalu Prasad Yadav and Nitish Kumar - to enhance its strength. What
better way to achieve this than to harp on the Hindu-ness of these castes, for
which the rhetoric of riot is a proven tool.

The past will dog not only the BJP but also Modi, unraveling his attempts to
create a new liberal persona for himself. Indeed, the past can't be wished away
until it has been exorcised of its ghosts. He may now speak of his "agony" over
the "inhuman" killings of 2002, but there would be voices - not just of
Congressmen - reminding us about the palpable absence of remorse in his conduct
since then, as he strutted around Gujarat campaigning on an anti-Muslim plank,
invoking images to reinforce popular stereotypes about the minority community.
For Modi, the past will also hound him through Snoopgate, a term coined to
describe his administration's illegitimate order to tap a woman's phone.

For Rahul Gandhi and the Congress, 2014 will be severe, voted out of power as
they will be. The Congress might even see its seat tally in the Lok Sabha dip to
its lowest ever, and confront a spell in oblivion, comrades rising in rebellion,
and alarm bells ringing the demise of the party. He, too, will have to return to
the past, to fathom the process underlying the emasculation of the grand old
party, its inability to meet the aspirations and demands of a new India. The
ghosts of the past will torment him and the party until he discovers a new
mantra to appease them.

In India's political firmament, it is the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its leader,
Arvind Kejriwal, for whom the year 2014 heralds a fresh beginning, for it rose
out of nowhere to become the country's great hope. His was a challenge neither
the BJP nor the Congress had anticipated, a challenge which aims to transform
our contemporary political culture, perceived to be corrupt and callous. He has
captured the country's imagination through the audacity of adhering to his
promise of fighting and winning Delhi state elections on meager resources
collected with transparency. In 2014, the AAP and Kejriwal will play a role
which none in 2012 had imagined or thought possible, unless they turn out to be
abject failures, overnight, in providing clean, effective and responsive
governance. Fortunate are they to have begun the New Year without a past.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                             March 1, 2014 Saturday

No change in policy on communal riots in Gujarat: US

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, March 1 -- The United States continues to express concern about
communal violence in India, the Obama Administration has said, strongly refuting
reports that it has gone soft on the Gujarat communal riots in 2002 and the
alleged role of its Chief Minister Narendra Modi.

"I wouldn't characterise our assessment that way. I think you'll find if you
review the text that we're very clear about our concerns about several episodes
of communal violence across India," US State Department Spokesperson Jen Psaki
told reporters on Thursday.

Psaki was responding to a question on the latest annual Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices released by Secretary of State John Kerry.

"If Modi was mentioned in previous human rights reports for India by name, and
(why) he is not mentioned in this one," she was asked.

Paski said that there is no change in the US policy on communal riots in Gujarat
about a decade ago. Both the annual reports of the 2011 and 2012 mention Modi in
its report but it no way refers to his role in the communal riots.

The latest report said: "Civil society activists continued to express concern
about the Gujarat government's failure to protect the population or arrest many
of those responsible for communal violence in 2002 that resulted in the killings
of more than 1,200 persons, the majority of whom were Muslim, although there was
progress in several court cases," the report said.

"The Gujarat government appointed the Nanavati-Mehta Commission to investigate
the 2002 violence. In December, the Gujarat government granted an extension for
the 21st time, extending the commission to June 30, 2014," it said.

The State Department said the Gujarat government withdrew its consent to seek
the death penalty for former minister Maya Kodnani and others convicted in the
2002 Naroda Patiya violence that killed 97 Muslims.

The investigating agency questioned the Gujarat government's move in a petition
in the Supreme Court in June.

Kodnani, the first senior politician to be convicted for 2002 violence, was
sentenced to a 28-year jail term for her involvement in the post-Godhra riots
case.

The report also talked about last year's communal violence in the Muzaffarnagar
area of Uttar Pradesh that led to 65 reported deaths, 42,000 persons displaced,
and hundreds of injuries during the months of August and September.

"The violence started with a sexual harassment incident between a Muslim man and
a Hindu Jat woman and escalated following a political meeting of officials and
others from more than 300 local villages during the weekend of September 7-8,"
it said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Today India

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday

Gujarat has understood value of peace: Modi

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, Sept. 17 -- Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, who on Saturday
began his three-day Sadhbhavna fast here, said the state has overcome several
setbacks in the past decade and has set an example for everyone.

?Today, the world is talking about Gujarat?s development, be it in the field of
industry, agriculture, rural areas or urban,? Modi told his supporters at
Convocation Hall of Gujarat University, adding peace and unity have been key to
the state?s development.

The world is also talking about Gujarat?s model of governance, Modi said, adding
that a day will come when Gujarat?s model of development while maintaining
peace, unity and brotherhood will be taken note of.

He noted that Gujarat has come a long way from the 1980s and ?90s when curfew
and communal violence were daily occurrences, adding the state has understood
the value of peace.

Modi said Gujarat?s rise post the devastating 2001 earthquake, 2002 communal
riots and the Akshardham temple attack set an example of peace, unity and
brotherhood for the world.

?After the 2002 riots there was talk that Gujarat will slide back... there will
be no investment. However, Gujarat overcame the crisis and rose to new heights,?
Modi said. He reiterated his earlier remarks that incidents like the 2002 riots
do no good to the civilised society.

After the 2008 serial blasts in Ahmedabad, six crore Gujaratis set an example of
peace, unity and brotherhood, Modi said.

Ruing votebank politics in the six decades post independence has ruined the
nation, Modi said he doesn?t follow politics of appeasement.

Stating Gujarat follows the path of democracy, justice and Constitution, Modi
said the state never tried to retaliate ?when people hurled stones and attacked
us?.

?We have used the stones hurled at us to build the ladder of development,? the
CM said.

He added that Gujarat wants to progress and help the nation.

Noting there was 100% student enrolment in the state, Modi said it was the
biggest example of secularism.

Modi, who is celebrating his 61st birthday today, began his three-day Sadbhavana
fast amid the presence of a galaxy of leaders.

BJP leaders like LK Advani, Arun Jaitely, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Sahanawaz
Hussain, Smriti Irani and Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Prem Kumar Dhumal,
among others, were present when Modi began his fast.

Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, whose party Shiromani Akali Dal is a
key member of the BJP-led NDA, was also present.

Leaders of Shiv Sena, BJP's ally for over two decades, and emissaries of Tamil
Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalitha of AIADMK are also present at the fast venue.
JD(U) leaders were however conspicuous by their absence.

Addressing the gathering, senior BJP leader LK Advani said Gujarat CM Modi is a
role model.

Gujarat is the only state in the country that is corruption free, he added.

?I deeply believe that this fast will further strengthen Gujarat's environment
of peace, unity and harmony,? Modi had said earlier.

In a letter to the people of Gujarat Modi said, "The unhealthy environment
created by the unfounded and false allegations made against me and government of
Gujarat, after 2002 riots, has come to an end."

Modi announced his move to sit on fast after the Supreme Court earlier this week
refused to pass any order on the alleged inaction of the Gujarat CM to contain
the 2002 communal riots which followed the Godhra carnage and referred the
matter back to the trial court in Ahmedabad.

On the eve of his three-day fast, Modi expressed confidence that his mission
would lend further strength to the nation's unity in diversity. He expressed
sadness for the life lost in the Gujarat riots.

"India and Gujarat have realised that casteism and communal fanaticism does not
serve anybody. Gujarat has risen over the distortions in society and national
life to march on to the path of progress, peace, unity, harmony and
brotherhood," he said in an official release.

A five-tier security has been put in place for the fast which has turned out to
be a grand affair.

In response to Modi's move, Gujarat Congress leaders Shankarsinh Vaghela and
Arjun Modhvadia also started their fast on a footpath in front of Sabarmati
Ashram.

courtesy Published by HT Syndication with permission from Today India. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Todayindia.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Bihar Times (India)

                             March 19, 2012 Monday

It is Anna's Gandhian like simplicity which moved the people: Ashutosh

LENGTH: 488 words

DATELINE: Patna


Patna, March 19 -- The Managing Editor of IBN7, Ashutosh, said on Sunday that
Indians are more prone to emotion, that is why Gandhiji succeeded where others
could not. Speaking at the book release function organized at Patna Book Fair,
where his book 13 Days

That Awakened India was launched the senior Hindi journalist said that perhaps
Jawaharlal Nehru was more well-read than Gandhiji; Rajendra Prasad and
Vallabhbhai Patel had better understanding yet the Mahatma succeeded in his
mission. Therefore, the last British Viceroy Lord Mountbatten said when Gandhiji
was in Naokholi at the time of pre-partition riots that India badly needed
another Gandhi.

"Gandhi was neither handsome nor attractive, nor was his writing very
impressive, nor was he a great orator, yet he guided the country to
independence," he said. Ashutosh said Anna Hazare too succeeded because of his
sheer simplicity. His message was simple and people of the country was longing
for personality like him to lead a struggle against corruption.

Herein comes the role of media, which has in a last couple of years played a
very important role in exposing corruption at the top level of the country. He
said that JP had the similar quality. He virtually retired from politics, but
was urged by the people to lead the movement against corruption. He started his
speech conceding that he was an emotional person.

He said that though he had personally covered Anna's fast for 13 days yet he met
him for only a couple of times. "It was at 4:30 AM, a day after Anna broke his
fast last August, that I woke up. Something came into my mind and I decided to
write a book on such a historic event. I woke my wife up and shared with her my
desire to come up with a book. I thought that she would rebuke me, but she did
not. Rather she cooperated with me," he said. Ashutosh regretted that
"English-speaking class of India" has contempt for Anna's movement and dubbed it
anti-democracy and anti-Parliament.

There were several channels and newspapers who were against it. The
Editor-in-Chief of Hindustan, Shashi Shekhar, who released the book of his
one-time colleague in television journalism, said that Ashutosh often get
carried away and demolishes the boundary. But the question is why he does so?
Because it is essential to do so. What is good is that he had written the book
while remaining within his limit. In the Question-Answer session which followed
Ashutosh explained why he chose to write the book in English rather than Hindi.

He said that he stands by what Arvind Kejriwal said about parlimentarians and
not Parliament, which a section of media distorted. He had only said that there
are serious criminal charges against 163 MPs, the IBN7 Managing Editor said.
Surprisngly, Shashi Shekhar had to face questions on the pro-government stand
his newspaper had taken in Bihar. He denied all such charges. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Bihar Times.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2012 Bihar Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

PZ and the PM!;
The actress says, alt145I said seven years ago that NaMo should be the Prime
Minister!'

BYLINE: Upala KBR

LENGTH: 719  words


The actress says, alt145I said seven years ago that NaMo should be the Prime
Minister!'

Films

I am doing two films right now, one is called Bhaiyyaji Superhit and the other
is Happy Ending, and I had nothing to do with what it's called. It's a film with
Saif. You will be hearing about me doing some other movies soon but as of now,
it's just about the IPL and the elections. It's the first time since 1984 - it's
been the most decisive elections for India with the BJP emerging as the single
largest party with such a big majority.

Politics and elections

I had said seven years ago that I would like to see Mr Modi as Prime Minister. I
started off as his biggest critic. Post Godhra, there were only negative
thoughts in my head about him being communal. But when I started going to
Gujarat to shoot etc and meeting other people there, especially the Muslims, and
the stories I heard from them and the development that I saw around them made me
see him in a different light. And you know what? The Supreme Court has given him
a clean chit so who are we to judge? If the highest court in the country says
something we must go by that, and secondly, it's not the first time that we have
had riots in India. We have had riots from 1984 to Kashmiri Pandit issues to the
Godhra riots to the Muzaffarnagar riots - we have had all these issues but who,
after falling down so badly, has gotten up and taken care of his state and done
something for the people? So that means there's a future with this person and
that was the only reason that I really started leaning towards him and becoming
a fan of his. The way the Gujarat machinery works, it would be great if India
could be like that. We would be that Golden Bird once again people talked of and
poets wrote about. I just hope that people don't expect him to do everything in
one day and just give him some time!

Production time

I am going to make a lot of movies. Ishkq In Paris will not be the only film I
ever make. It was a great learning experience and I think I am ready to come
back bigger, better and stronger.

Writing on the wall

People ask me if I will write again. I was more of a default writer for IIP,
trying to help and finish in time. Preity, the writer, is not really the type
who would write a love story - I will write something else so I hope you see
something different. I have a few things that I am working on...

IPL and my team

It's been seven years and finally my team is doing well. I am thanking God for
it and am very happy with the way they are shaping up. I am even more happy
because the Punjabi spirit is a happy and aggressive one. And the Punjabis
supported us through thick and thin.We have been very lucky this year and also
we have worked very hard. We have new strategies and we spent our whole money on
the IPL. We have always been a very young team and Kings XI Punjab has always
found new talent. We have 20-year-olds. They are kids to me. All are young
players and it's a very young team. The only bummer is that we have been
travelling a lot and it's so hot! I can take -10 degrees but I can't take 45
degrees. My hands swell up and I am sweating and it's tough but when the fours
and sixes come I am very excited! I am just keeping my fingers crossed and
praying to all the Gods that this time let it come to us.

I, me, myself

I am passionate about whatever I do. If I don't like something, then I have
minus 1,000 per cent interest in it. So if you want to make me do something  I
don't want to do, then I feel bad for you. But if I like doing something then I
give it everything. I always wanted to do different things because it would
scare me to live this perceived image that people have of me. This image kept
getting bigger and bigger but I remained the same person. Our DNA doesn't
change. I wanted to do movies, though my mother used to tell me as a child I
wanted to be everything but an actress. I became that and then it became like a
job for me. Being an actress gave me everything but it also scared me as I
always wanted to do other things. In acting, you are giving your voice, name and
energy at that moment to a character, so it's a creation of someone's
imagination - that is not you! I am the kind of person who wants to put my feet
on the ground but head in the clouds.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                          February 18, 2015 Wednesday

RSS has no easy answers for Muslim clerics' questions

BYLINE: Deepak Gidwani

LENGTH: 428  words


Lucknow: The Sunni Ulema Council, a pan-India religious organisation of 'ulema'
(Islamic clerics) with a huge following among the Sunnis, the dominant sect of
Muslims, has come up with a set of prickly posers which has virtually
non-plussed the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, an organisation of Hindu religious
leaders insisting on strict adherence to the Hindu faith in "Hindustan".

The saffron brigade seems to have no easy answers, not for the time being at
least. The questions include one about whether the RSS wants to convert India
into a "Hindu rashtra".

A delegation of Muslim 'ulema' met senior RSS 'pracharak' (Hindu preacher, a
loose equivalent to the Christian evangelist) Indresh in Kanpur on Tuesday with
a humble request for "clarifications of certain points". Little did the RSS
functionary know that he would be zapped with queries loaded with religious
overtones. Significantly, Indresh heads the RSS cell which looks after minority
affairs in the country.

"He almost lost his temper," Sunni Ulema Council General Secretary Haji Mohammed
Salees told dna late Tuesday evening. "He said this was no way of seeking
clarifications on such vexed issues. Instead, he asked us to organise a
conference of Muslim organisations on the issues we raised, and that he would
give the answers there after due deliberation," he said. "Actually, he was so
irritated, he didn't know what to say," the cleric remarked.

Sources say, one of the 'ulemas' even asked him if the RSS wanted Muslims to
leave the country, which further upset him, though the issue was not part of the
memorandum they gave him.

Muslim group wants SIT probe into 1992 riots

Faizabad: A Muslim group has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to set up
Special Investigation Team to probe the 1992 Ayodhya riots post Babri mosque
demolition. The demand has come after Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party
government announced an additional compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the victims of
1984 anti-Sikh riots. The group asked the state government to institute an SIT
probe claiming that riot, which took place after demolition of Babri mosque on
December 6 and continued till December 7 in which over two dozen people were
killed.

The six queries

Does RSS consider India a Hindu country?

Has RSS prepared any specific format to turn India into a "Hindu rashtra"

Would this "Hindu rashtra" function according to Hindu religious texts or has
RSS chalked out a different philosophy?

What is the RSS stand on religious conversions?

What type of "rashtra prem" (patriotism) does RSS expect from Muslims?

How does RSS view Islam?

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday

Intolerance debate: Why the Aamir Khan controversy must worry the common man;
My whole generation was born and brought up in an atmosphere of hatred, communal
aggression and prejudiced thinking. We were the victims of a mass slow poisoning
of young minds that began in the late 80s and early 90s.

BYLINE: Atish Nagpure

LENGTH: 1272  words


My whole generation was born and brought up in an atmosphere of hatred, communal
aggression and prejudiced thinking. We were the victims of a mass slow poisoning
of young minds that began in the late 80s and early 90s.

My mother used to tell me this story of the time of my birth. Just a week after
I was born, the then Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi was assassinated and
riots engulfed the country. Many Sikhs were brutally killed in that genocide.
The situation was tense even in Maharashtra, but within a few weeks, life slowly
started coming back to normal.

I sincerely feel that after these riots, life in India was never the same again.
It resulted in two important yet unfortunate developments from which this
country has never recovered.

Firstly, the 1984 genocide gave open licence to radical forces to promote their
communal and divisive agenda, by providing them with an opportunity to raise
fingers at the Congress party. Second, it resulted in the rise of Rajiv Gandhi,
India's weakest PM ever. His inability to handle the Shah Bano case paved the
way for radical Hindu organisations to push their agenda. He committed a blunder
by deciding to open the doors of the Babri Mosque, in a stupid attempt to repair
the damage done by the Shah Bano case. It was the beginning of the fall of the
Congress and rise of radical forces.

Within half a decade, the country had been fully polarised. I was hardly 8 or 9
years old at the time, but memories of the 1993 Mumbai riots are fresh in my
mind. I cannot forget how our minds had been occupied and indoctrinated by
radical forces. Today, I cannot see any real difference between those radical
forces and the Islamist extremists in the Middle East. They both preach hatred
and make a lasting impact on young minds. Perhaps the only difference is in the
degree of impact, the extent of violence.

My whole generation was born and brought up in an atmosphere of hatred, communal
aggression and prejudiced thinking. We were the victims of a mass slow poisoning
of young minds that began in the late 80s and early 90s.

What changed after the demolition of the Babri Mosque and the 1993 Mumbai riots?
Before the riots, my father used to take us to the Haji Ali Dargah while
returning home after visiting the Mahalaxmi temple. After the riots, it never
happened. He stopped taking us to the Dargah. This may seem like a trivial
thing, but it highlights how our mindset had changed.

Communal polarisation and rapid economic reforms went hand in hand during this
time. The introduction of FDI and liberalisation followed by a revolution in the
IT sector boosted the Indian economy. As politicians and intellectuals were too
busy either in praising or criticising liberalisation, the serious issue of
increasing communal divide remained neglected for decades. The young minds
infected with the poisonous ideology of hate could never emerge out of its
shadow. The emergence of a leader like Narendra Modi in the spectrum of Indian
politics was very obvious given these circumstances, as the indoctrinated young
generation waited eagerly for a leader who was the perfect blend of their
so-called 'Ram' and an economic catalyst. They found it in the form of Modi.

The atmosphere currently prevailing in India is the peak of communal
polarisation which began with the unfortunate assassination of Indira Gandhi.
The nature of incidents happening in this country every now and then provide
enough evidence of growing intolerance. But it's not just the BJP and the Sangh
Parivar which is at fault. Most of us common people too do not find anything
objectionable about these developments. How does it matter if beef is banned?
How does it matter if Dabholkar, Pansare and Kalburgi are killed? Who cares if
incidents like Dadri happen? Who cares if the sanctity of institutions is
destroyed? How does it matter if Nathuram Godse's birth anniversary is
celebrated? "Hungama kyon hai bhai?", this is how most of us have reacted to
these developments. It seems that the Sangh Parivar's experiment of injecting
hatred into the minds of young Hindus has achieved unprecedented success.

Instead of raising our voice, we shamelessly question those who return their
awards, who express their concerns. We question their intentions, their
religion, accuse them of being inclined towards a certain political ideology.
Isn't this intolerance?

What has changed in this nation in the last 18 months? The central government is
dictating to us what we can eat, wear and watch. The Prime Minister of the
country says in an election rally that the share of reservations for lower
castes is being diverted to Muslims. The Chief Minister of a certain state asks
a particular community to leave the country if they wish to eat beef, and the
Governor of some other state wants this country to become a Hindu rashtra.
Incidents of communal violence and atrocities against Dalits have increased. It
seems that the agenda of foolish anti-social elements has been officially
adopted by the ruling government at the Centre. And, to push this stupid,
outrageous agenda ahead, they are making equally outrageous appointments in
important government organisations.

In such an atmosphere, is it outrageous or even surprising if a star like Aamir
Khan wishes to leave the country? But instead of trying to understand the
concerns of Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao, most of us have heavily criticised the
couple. Many have questioned Aamir's religion. Some have advised them to go to
Syria, Pakistan, Iraq or Lebanon. I don't think that for Aamir and Kiran Rao,
this is just a matter of safety. The atmosphere and ideological environment in
which their child will be brought up could also be a cause for worry for them.

But this cannot be just Aamir Khan's concern. Every secular, rational mind is
bothered about the ideological nurturing of their children today. Those who do
not want religion to be taught in schools, those who do not want the culture of
hierarchy on the basis of caste, religion, gender to spread (i.e. the kind of
culture present in RSS), those who feel that the Constitution and values like
freedom and equality stand highest, those who want their children to look at the
world with an open mind and not through the prism of any religion, are all
scared. Because they know as well as anyone that once the minds of children are
polluted with prejudice and hate, they cannot be de-radicalised easily. Though I
am a Hindu, the father in me is especially worried about this.

One more concern is the pace of positive transition in this country. In the
battle against superstitions, backwardness and male domination, we could hardly
take a few steps forward in the last few decades. Many people seem to be scared
that in the current regime, given the Parivar's poor history, India will take
several steps backwards on these issues.

I would like to quote some lines from the poetry of famous poet Nida Fazli,
where he expresses his frustration when he finds it very difficult to compose
poetry from his heart as the situation around him deteriorates. Let me clarify
that Fazli wrote this poem long before the present BJP government came to power.

He writes:

Nazm bahut aasan thi pehle

(Writing poetry was so easy, earlier)

Nazm se mujh tak ab milon lambi duri hai

(Now, poetry is miles away from me)

Kahin Achanak Bam Fatate Hai

Kokh me mao ke sote bachche darte hai

Majhab aur siyasat

Naye naye nare ratate hai

Bahut se shahero - bahut se mulko se ab hokar

Nazm mere ghar jab aati hai

Itni jyada thak jati hai

Meri likhane ke tebil par

Khali kagaz ko khali hi chhod ke

Rukhsat ho jati hai

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             March 17, 2014 Monday

RAHUL READS OUT THE RIOT ACT

BYLINE: By Mail Today Bureau in New Delhi

LENGTH: 1106  words


' Clear failure of governance in riots'  ' Premature to give Modi clean chit'  '
Many questions, country needs to know more'

CONGRESS vice- president Rahul Gandhi has finally shown the resolve to take on
his main adversary, Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi. In keeping with his party's old tactic of
targeting Modi with Godhra ammunition, Rahul has rejected the notion of a clean
chit to Modi in connection with the 2002 riots that rocked Gujarat for days.

Pointing out in an interview to M. K. Razdan of PTI that " Modi was answerable
on moral grounds", Rahul said " there should be legal accountability for the
clear and inexcusable failure of governance under him". The nation needs

Congress V- Phits out at Modi  for failure of governance  during the 2002
Gujarat riots

to know lots more about the riots, Rahul has said, declaring that UPA III is
around the corner and that the Aam Aadmi Party is not a national alternative.

The interview is important for more than just this one attack. It also signals
to all other Congress leaders that it is open season on Modi. Also, coming after
Rahul's first - and rather vanilla - interview to a Hindi daily, and the second
one to a TV channel in which Rahul ended up tying himself in knots on the issue
of the 1984 anti- Sikh riots, this one declares the Congress leader's desire to
fight it out, no holds barred. Finally, it is the curtain- raiser to the last,
accelerated month of namecalling and allegation- hurling before India begins to
vote next month.

H ITTING out at Modi, Rahul said: " The SIT report had been seriously questioned
by a number of credible experts. The acceptance of the flawed SIT report by the
lowest court has not yet been subjected to judicial scrutiny by higher courts."
Noting " there are many unanswered questions", he said, " the specific
allegation and evidence pointing to Modi's responsibility in the 2002 riots are
yet to be adequately probed. Any talk of his having been given clean chit may be
politically expedient, but is far too premature." Rahul was responding to
queries related to BJP's contention that Modi had been given a clean chit by the
Supreme Courtappointed SIT and the courts and, therefore, he had nothing to
answer for or apologise for about the post- Godhra riots.

Observing the Lok Sabha elections were not a presidential- style contest between
him and Modi, Rahul described it as a clash between two ideas of India. The
Congress, he said, represented an idea which respects the liberty and dignity of
all countrymen by upholding the ideals of humanity and inclusion.

" The ideas that Modi represents are dangerous for  India," he said. Agreeing
that India needed a " strong" leader, he said: " We must understand what
strength means. Strength to me, not brute force or the ability to bulldoze your
way through decision- making in an autocratic manner... I do believe that an
autocratic mindset that believes in dispensing with whatever is inconvenient to
its notions is dangerous because such people tend to disregard what is right for
what expedient." Lashing out at the BJP on corruption, Rahul said the BJP has
inducted former Karnataka chief minister B. S. Yeddyurappa, who has been jailed,
and it has ministers ( Babubhai Bokadia) in Gujarat who have been convicted.

Their ( BJP's) national president was seen taking money and was convicted. The
record of the Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh governments on corruption is well
known. The money and land scams in Karnataka, absence of a functional Lokayukta
in Gujarat for over 10 years, the recruitment scam in Madhya Pradesh, and the
allotment of land to industry in a completely nontransparent manner- the record
is there for all to see," he said.

Damage control

Seeking to control damage resulting from his earlier comments on the 1984 anti-
Sikh riots in Delhi, Rahul said he shared the sentiments of Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh, who had apologised over the issue and party president Sonia
Gandhi, who had expressed regrets.

Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party was not a factor at the national level in the
coming Lok Sabha elections, he said. " They did not solve any of the problems
they said they would solve.

Frankly, they ran away," he said.

Rejecting Finance Minister P. Chidambaram's view that the Congress was an
underdog in the Lok Sabha polls, Rahul said a UPA III government would come at
the Centre. " Congress is fighting a challenging election and we will win the
election," he said while refusing to guess the number of seats the party would
get. " I am not a soothsayer but we will do well," he said. He debunked opinion
polls which have predicted a decline for the Congress, and said the party would
improve its tally of 206 seats in the 2009 elections.

" Predictions before 2004 and 2009 elections also said the Congress was going to
get thrashed," he said.

The party failed to explain its achievements, he said.

" I think certainly we could have been more aggressive in conveying our
achievements. As I said, we have done transformatory work. We could always be
better in communication," he said. Rubbishing the perception that Congress was
losing allies, Rahul said it had alliances with NCP, RJD, JMM, RLD and the
National Conference but lost the DMK and the Trinamool Congress.

Alliance

" We are always willing to work with people who share our ideology and political
philosophy, who are determined to fight sectarian and communal forces that seek
to divide India for narrow political gains," he said responding to a query on
ties with DMK and TMC. The Congress vice- president said he differed with the
government and was overruled on many issues. " One very large public place where
I was overruled was on the question of making Lokpal a constitutional body. I
had a different view from the senior members of the party and I was overruled,"
he said.

" Those who want to reform the system are often people who revolt against the
very system they are part of. We opened up the youth Congress and NSUI to
elections and are holding primaries in 15 Lok Sabha constituencies," he said
adding " I would like to ask my critics from the opposition parties if they
would demonstrate their willingness to open up their parties to such empowering
initiatives.

These insider/ outsider are unimportant labels." " I must also say that the
media seems to have a need for a scorecard on me at every turn. I view my own
success and failure on a different scale and horizon. Down the road I will
measure myself on how much voice we have been able to give the people of India
through devolved structures of the Congress party," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            April 17, 2014 Thursday

MODI SAYS NOVADRA VENDETTA

BYLINE: Mail Today Bureau in New Delhi

LENGTH: 710  words

BJP PM nominee declares he will spend time on constructive work

IN A MONTH from now, India will know who its prime minister will be- or not.

Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP) prime ministerial
candidate Narendra Modi chose this very D minus 30 day to unleash an interview
blitz, clearing the air on the Vadra vendetta buzz and the longstanding 2002
apology demand. Speaking to a    regional television channel, Modi ruled out a
witch- hunt against Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son- in- law Robert Vadra
over alleged dubious land deals.

In another interview to a TV news agency, Modi declared he had never ducked a
question on the 2002 riots.

Hang me in the street if I have committed a crime, he said.

With the revelation of his stance on Vadra, Modi also silenced voices from
within the BJP threatening an accountability probe against the husband of
Priyanka Gandhi whose allegedly shady business deals have figured in the saffron
campaign, Modi's rallies included.

Positive attitude

"The main focus of the BJP- led government will be to fulfil promises it has
made to people and it will work with a positive attitude. It will not be
vindictive towards anyone. The vindictiveness of others has made me pay the
price for the past 12 years. I will not do that,"said Modi, "but utilise his
time and energy for doing good things for public at large."BJP leaders Uma
Bharti and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had vowed that the corrupt would not be spared
under Modi rule as they specifically targeted Vadra.

Bharti had recently made it to the headlines by saying Vadra would be "sent to
jail"in a BJP regime.

Modi also took on his critics over the Gujarat riots of 2002, declaring he was
never silent on the issue and had answered every top journalist in the country
from 2002- 2007 but they were not willing to know the truth. "I was not silent.
I answered every top journalist in the country from 2002- 2007, but noticed
there was no exercise to understand truth,"Modi told a news agency. Widely
regarded as cagey on questions about the riots, Modi said that "unknown entities
gave rise to a number of conspiracies that allegedly linked him to the tragedy".
"I have said what I had to say. Now, I am in the people's court and I am waiting
to hear from them, and their verdict,"said Modi. He also stoutly defended his
refusal to wear a skull cap when he has sported other headgear, claiming he did
not believe in symbols of appeasement. "Has Sonia Gandhi ever worn a skull
cap?"he asked in a riposte.

"I follow my own culture and respect other cultures. Gandhi, Nehru, Sardar Patel
never had to wear a skull cap. I am against appeasement politics. I will not
follow appeasement symbol,"he said.

Refusing to budge from his position of not apologising for the Gujarat riots,
Modi said he should be hanged in public if there is a grain of truth in the
allegations of his involvement. "I am convinced that there is not even a grain
of truth in the allegations. I feel for India's bright future and traditions.

Modi should be hanged in the street square. There should be such exemplary
punishment that no one dares to commit such a crime for 100 years,"he said,
adding: "If Modi has committed a crime, he should not be pardoned.

What is this system of pardoning people through apology? There should be no
apology."He said the issue of apology would not have arisen if he had lost the
elections in 2002 or 2007.

"There is a small coterie who think they have worked hard and created a storm.
But Modi does not lose, does not die. It is their ( the coterie's) obsession to
pull Modi down,"he said. Asked about the storm created over his puppy remarks
earlier in reference to his expression of sadness over the killings of Muslims,
Modi said it hurts "even if an ant dies". That does not mean I am comparing the
dead to an ant. In India, there is a difference between language and
expression,"he said suggesting that there has been an unintended
misinterpretation of remarks.

Assurance

An assurance was reserved for the editors of newspapers who Aam Aadmi Party
leader Arvind Kejriwal had claimed were threatened with the advent of Modi. The
BJP leader said he has been in power in Gujarat for 14 years. "I ask you has any
editor left, or has any reporter left?"he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Modi a devil, architect of riots India will plunge into darkness if he becomes
PM: Mamata

LENGTH: 231  words

DATELINE: Kolkata


A day after Narendra Modi targeted her, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata
Banerjee on Monday called the BJP's prime ministerial candidate "a devil" and
the "architect of riots". She said "the nation will plunge into darkness" if
Modi becomes the prime minister.

"Modi is a devil. He has presided over riots in his own state and has turned his
attention to Bengal... He wants to divide Hindus and Muslims in the state," she
said in a statement put up on the Trinamool Congress website.

Reacting to Modi's charge of misgovernance, she said, "We do not need gyaan on
development from the architect of riots. He has no right to be in politics."

On Modi's allegation that she was ignoring non-Bengalis and welcoming
Bangladeshis, Mamata said, "Everyone is our brother and sister, whether they
belong to Gujarat or Bihar. We do not discriminate between people... We don't do
casteism and dirty politics.

"Bangla is the fifth most widely spoken language in the world. Elsewhere in
India, people who speak Bangla are branded Bangladeshis... Bangladeshis who
migrated to India followed the 1971 Indira-Mujib agreement (are)... legal
immigrants."

The Election Commission has asked for the CD and transcript of Modi's speech in
West Bengal on Sunday. The TMC's Mukul Roy had complained against Modi for
claiming that one of Mamata's paintings was sold for "Rs 1.80 crore" and raising
doubts about the buyer.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 29, 2014 Monday

Defensive no more

LENGTH: 407  words


Prime Minister Narendra Modi appeared to be on a political roll in New York over
the weekend. He chatted with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and addressed the
UN General Assembly for the first time. A spectacular reception was planned for
him by the Indian-American community on Sunday at Madison Square Garden.

He underlined India's shared interests with the US on combating violent
extremism by visiting the memorial for the victims of 9/11, connected with
leaders from India's neighbouring countries and met American mayors and
governors.

Modi is widely seen in America as India's most credible international
interlocutor since Rajiv Gandhi, with the political will to turn India's long
talked about economic and strategic potential into reality. But the visit to the
US has also touched on Modi's Achilles heel: his controversial past in Gujarat.

The outpouring of enthusiasm for him within the Indian-American community has
overshadowed the smaller protest demonstrations against the PM but Modi's
critics in America are not going away. Some of them have persuaded local courts
to issue summons to him, citing his role during the 2002 Gujarat riots.

As India's internal divisions manifest themselves in America, Washington has
made it clear that Modi enjoys absolute immunity during his visit to the US. If
America's political leadership is ready to embrace Modi, its business elite is
eager to be persuaded that India is back in business; neither is interested in
digging up his past.

At the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Modi refused to be drawn
into a verbal brawl with Pakistan's Nawaz Sharif who referred to the mid-20th
century UN call for a plebiscite in Jammu and Kashmir a day before. Modi,
instead, reaffirmed his desire for a dialogue with Pakistan and reminded
Islamabad of its responsibility to create the right atmosphere.

More importantly, he chose to focus on his larger foreign policy vision. Modi's
UN speech has set the stage for a more productive engagement with the world by
discarding India's recent defensiveness on multilateral issues - from terrorism
to trade, and climate change to global commons. On all these, Modi has hinted at
more innovative approaches on Delhi's part if the US is ready to address India's
genuine concerns.

Flexibility and pragmatism rooted in extraordinary self-assurance should stand
Modi in good stead when he arrives Monday evening in Washington for his dinner
date with Obama.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Sparks, not fires

BYLINE: Ashutosh Varshney

LENGTH: 1439  words


Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Vadodara and now East Delhi - a series of communal
incidents have flared up of late. How should we understand their causes? How far
might tensions escalate?

Let us start with a brief historical background. After Partition, as I
documented in my book, Ethnic Conflict and Civic Life: Hindus and Muslims in
India, India witnessed its worst phase of communal rioting during 1977-93. Since
1993, communal violence has been declining, with the major exception of 2002,
when Gujarat burnt.

Basically, communal violence has a three-fold strategic structure: what the
Hindu right does, how the Muslim right reacts, and how some "secular" parties
make political calculations. It does not always have to be a "Hindu action and
Muslim reaction" model. It can be the other way round as well. In Hyderabad and
Aligarh, the Muslim right has historically been strong, often causing communal
trouble. But, on the whole, all three players deploy strategic reasoning.

What motivates each political player? Many of the lower- and middle-level cadres
of the BJP have always been socialised in Hindu nationalism. That ideology says
Muslims have been disloyal to India and have hurt the growth of Hindu society.
Ground-level exertions of Hindu pride, attempts at Hindu consolidation and
animosity towards Muslims routinely accompany the electoral rise of Hindu
nationalists. As part of ruling coalitions, Hindu nationalists have been in
power four times in Delhi: 1977-79, 1998-99, 1999-2004, and now. In different
degrees, including in the current phase, the lower- and middle-level leaders
have expressed themselves in a Hindu nationalist ideological vein.

Communal tensions can, in principle, remain hidden if Muslims don't react to
such provocations. But the problem is not so simple. The rise of Hindu
nationalists creates strategic opportunities for the Muslim right, which
believes that its political future can be enhanced if communal fires are stoked
and if it can present itself as a saviour of the Muslim community in an adverse
environment. The Muslim right and Hindu right always feed off each other. The
spread of the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) beyond Telangana, its ability
to win two seats in Maharashtra and its announcement that it will open chapters
in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, three states with some of the highest
percentages of Muslims, exemplifies this phenomenon. Unlike the Muslim League of
Kerala, whose moderation has always been resented by extremist Muslim
organisations, the MIM is quintessentially a rightwing organisation, which
defines Muslim interests as aggressively as the RSS does Hindu interests.

The secular parties, at least some of them, are normally the third player in the
communal game. The logic of their strategy is as follows: if communal violence
breaks out, the BJP or RSS can easily continued...
(http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/sparks-not-fires/2) be blamed,
and the Muslim vote can be consolidated.

Something like this has almost certainly happened in UP. The Samajwadi Party
(SP), which runs the state government, has a close relationship with the state's
Muslims. It saw Muslim insecurity as a way to solidify Muslim support. Narendra
Modi's ascendancy emboldened state cadres of the party. And some Muslim leaders
detected a strategic opportunity.

If this is the strategic structure of the problem, how should one foresee future
directions? Will India witness a revival of the severe rioting of 1978-93? We
need to keep three factors in mind: income levels, Hindu-Muslim ties and Modi's
political strategy.

The literature on the relationship between income and riots suggests that at
high levels of income, riots become episodic. France had its riots in 2005, as
did the US in 1993. But such riots were not a regular and continuing phenomenon,
which they tend to be at lower levels of income. The literature heavily focuses
on state capacity as a key variable generating this outcome. Tensions and small
skirmishes can emerge, but before they turn into full-fledged rioting, the
police or security forces intervene and put down the disturbances. Sparks do not
easily become fires.

India provides mixed evidence for this theory. First, Hindu-Muslim riots are
primarily an urban, not a rural, phenomenon. Urban incomes have always been
greater than rural incomes. In India, more riots have broken out in places that
had higher incomes. The second feature of Indian riots, however, affirms the
theory. The period of declining riots, since 1993, does coincide with incomes
rising at an unprecedented rate.

The key question is this: has India reached a threshold of income where riots,
as a result of higher state capacities, would decline for sure? No one seriously
suggests that bureaucratic capacity is high anywhere in India, with the possible
exception of Kerala. UP, where riots have made the biggest comeback, might be
among the lowest-income states, with an ineffectual bureaucracy, but Maharashtra
and Gujarat, which have also had riots, are among the richest, with higher
administrative capacity. Moreover, during 1950-95, Gujarat and Maharashtra had
more deaths in communal riots than UP and Bihar.

The second factor, the nature of Hindu-Muslim ties, was a key argument in my
book. In urban India, riots were locally concentrated. During 1950-95, a mere
eight cities - Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Aligarh, Meerut, Vadodara, Delhi
and Kolkata - accounted for 46 per cent of all deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots. In
those cities where bridging ties existed between the two communities - in
business, politics, education and other walks of life - the local state organs
functioned well in times of tension, and violence was minimal or very rare.
Contrariwise, Hindu-Muslim segregation, in daily life and associations, was the
best predictor of rioting. If India's future economic growth produces bridging
ties between Hindus and Muslims, one should expect riots not to have a large
resurgence. However, if it forges only bonding ties - ties inside the religious
community, not across religious boundaries - the constraining effects
continued...
(http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/sparks-not-fires/2) of
bridging will not exist.

Enduring patterns in the Hindu-Muslim relationship are normally a medium- to
long-run phenomenon. It is the third factor, Modi's political strategy, that
will be decisive in the shorter run. If large communal riots do return, they
will hurt Modi in two ways. First, restoring economic growth and governance was
his most important campaign theme. Large riots will seriously hurt investment
prospects and undermine governance. In the worst period of riots, 1977-93, India
was not as globally interconnected as it is now. Nor did it seek foreign
investment. That is no longer true. Modi is known for an investment-driven model
of growth. On his foreign trips, he has systematically courted investors.

Second, putting the 2002 riots entirely behind and seeking a new identity in the
form of economic progress and governance has been the dominant Modi strategy for
some time. If riots spread and he is unable to control them, especially in
BJP-ruled states, the contentions, images and politics of 2002 will come back to
haunt. Muslims, of course, will not return to him, but many Hindus who voted for
his governance and growth promise, not for Hindu nationalism, will also desert
him. Surveys show that every fourth vote for the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha
elections was for him, not the party. His newly acquired international standing,
which has taken quite long to build, will also suffer badly.

Thus, Modi is likely to be opposed to an instrumental use of riots in politics,
by his cadres or any other party. The tenacity and resolution with which Modi
uses power to combat ground-level strategies will ultimately determine how far
communal violence goes. One should expect small disturbances, not big
conflagrations, not many in any case. If my analysis turns out to be wrong,
immense violent convulsions will rock India's project of economic progress.
Majoritarian Sinhala nationalism was singlehandedly responsible for taking the
shine off Sri Lanka, viewed by many in the 1970s as a future economic tiger,
potentially comparable to Singapore. India needs to avoid the Sri Lankan fate.

The writer, Sol Goldman Professor of International Studies and the Social
Sciences and Director of the India Initiative, Brown University, is a
contributing editor for 'The Indian Express'. The argument advanced in this
column is developed at greater length in the Journal of Democracy, October 2014.

express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            November 13, 2015 Friday

Narendra Modi in UK: The supporter at Wembley, the protester at 10, Downing

BYLINE: Shubhajit Roy

LENGTH: 531  words


Two faces of the Indian community is what Prime Minister Narendra Modi
(http://indianexpress.com/profile/politician/narendra-modi/) is going to
encounter during his three-day visit to the UK, beginning Thursday. One, an
enthusiastic supporter. Two, a committed protester. One, happy about Modi's
present. Two, disturbed about Modi's past. Both have different visions of
India's future under Modi.

Bina Correa, 44, is an enthusiastic supporter who is head of liaison with the
performers who will showcase their talent at the Wembley Stadium.

Suresh Grover, 61, is a social activist who is leading the efforts to protest
against Modi outside 10, Downing Street, over the Gujarat riots.

Correa, who works as an analyst in London, has been working for the last three
weeks to ensure that about 300 children, who are part of the 650 performers at
Wembley Stadium, are well looked after.

She came to the UK when she was a two-year-old, but has relatives in Baroda. "I
don't live in India, but I have my family there. So what Modi does impacts my
family. He is an influential figure whose decisions can impact them, their
lives. So it's my duty to do my bit to make Modi feel welcome here," says
Correa.

On the other side of the divide is Grover, who is the director of The Monitoring
Group, which has been fighting and campaigning against racial hatred, violence
and human rights violations for the last four decades in the UK. As a
16-year-old, he was stabbed by what he calls "a group of skinheads". He too has
family in India. Grover has campaigned against a host of issues - from racism in
the UK, to protests against the Emergency as a young volunteer, then the 1984
riots (when he travelled to Trilokpuri), the Bhopal gas tragedy and all kinds of
fundamentalism.

He recalls getting calls after the Gujarat riots in 2002, and became active in
providing legal aid to three British nationals who were killed in the riots. "We
cannot prevent Modi from coming to the UK, since there are bilateral relations
at stake. Although that's what we did in 2003. But what we want now is the
acknowledgement of his acts of ommission and commission in the riots. That's
what we are protesting about," he says.

Correa sees the PM as the "harbinger of hope", Grover is clear that Modi should
be made "accountable" for his past.

Correa says it's going to be a loud welcome for Modi in Wembley Stadium, Grover
wants his group's voices to be loud enough to reach Modi's ears.

While Correa and Grover are the two faces who represent the divided Indian
community in the UK, the numbers - as it seems now - are stacked in favour of
Correa. Correa estimates that about 60,000 people are expected to attend the
Wembley event, Grover says his supporters are going to be in "thousands, and not
in hundreds".

Grover wraps up the conversation on a cautious note. "There are a large number
of people who don't see Modi becoming successful unless he severs his links with
the RSS. Look at the lynching over beef, this is what is going to happen," he
says.

"We are not working for the money here. We want India to prosper under Modi,"
says Correa.

Their worlds inhabit the same space in the UK, but Correa and Grover are worlds
apart.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday

Ind vs SL: Good wake-up call to start World T20 preparations

BYLINE: sriram veera

LENGTH: 701  words

DATELINE: Pune


"Kaisa bhi wicket ho, hain toh India ka wicket! (Whatever it is, it is India's
wicket after all)" MS Dhoni smiled as he admitted being surprised by the
slightly spicy Pune pitch, placing it in the context of returning from run-fests
in Australia. Sometimes, acclimatisation to home conditions too makes its
presence in cricket.

REPORT: Rookie pacers rattle India
(http://indianexpress.com/article/sports/cricket/ind-vs-sl-kasul-rajitha-dasun-s
hanaka-run-riot-as-india-lose-first-t20i/)

Pune threw a naughty wink at cricketers used to flat tracks in India on Tuesday.
And yet, at the end of a day when Indian batsmen were hustled by seam movement
and bounce, it felt peevish to have a go at them. After all they have just
returned from fattening themselves with runs on batting paradises in Australia
and who would have thought they would be ambushed at home.

PHOTOS: India fall apart
(http://indianexpress.com/photos/sports-gallery/ind-vs-sl-t20-2016-india-sri-lan
ka-cricket-pune/)

One criticism could be laid on them that they didn't adjust quickly enough and
make course corrections after a horrendous start but that loses some sting
considering the kind of pitches that are likely to roll their way in the lead-up
and during the T20 World Cup.

However, this match also threw up another viewpoint, one that's bound to cause
some headaches for India. Even when Virat Kohli comes back, Yuvraj Singh and to
an extent Suresh Raina can't be trusted yet to pull India out of Pune-shaped
holes. Even on tracks less spicy than this and certainly on pitches like this.

In a big game, even without the pitch being as tricky as this, the Indian middle
order could find the task of revival difficult. They could ride on good starts
without much fuss but can they pull India out of mini-crises? Luckily, there is
still a month to go for the big event, and India will get a few more
opportunities to iron out the middle-order muddle.

However, this performance also throws up another prism to look at. In the T20
format and considering the nature of the pitches that can be expected in
general, India see more value in going with an all-out approach, as that cliche
goes. And more often than not, it's bound to be successful. Yes, Yuvraj and
Raina, and possibly even Shikhar Dhawan, could have reacted better, and toned
down their frenetic approach, but it doesn't come as naturally to them.

Dhoni was asked a direct question about Yuvraj and Raina in such scenarios. Can
other batsmen apart from you (Dhoni) change their game according to the pitch?
"In this format we don't need to change too much. Even if you change six balls,
if you go run a ball for even six balls, the whole game can change.

If somebody scores 10 runs in two balls we say very well played. If somebody did
that in 50 overs, we say hey you should have batted on. The demands of T20 are
different. We will play T20 for a long time (in the immediate future). The
consolidation period is from six to 10 balls. At the same time we have to look
at the wicket."

Fair call

The captain's sentiment is obviously coming from the pitches that he is
expecting will be rolled out in the future, and it's a fair call. But he has to
be ready for situations where if the top order gets shot out early and his
middle gets a bit wobbly and he might have to push himself up the order to guide
them through.

Dhoni believes this experience will help them find a way. "It is very rare in
this format that all wickets fall. Usually this doesn't happen, especially if
you bat deep I don't think it is a bad idea to test everyone. You will find out
how strong the lower order is. If till the World Cup we keep playing on the
strength of our top order, then the lower order could have to bat in a crucial
situation all of a sudden."

The home leg too has started just as the Australian tour had begun, with a
slightly different twist. In Australia, in the ODIs initially, the Indian
batsmen couldn't quite up their tempo to set a target that would push Australia.
Here, the batsmen couldn't quite tone down their approach to set a
lower-than-usual total and not aim too high. However, in the bigger picture,
this is exactly the kind of game that India needed a month before the World Cup.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 15, 2016 Friday

Pakistan Defence Minister now draws parallel between Kashmir unrest and Gujarat
riots;
India has told Pakistan not to interfere in its internal affairs

BYLINE: Express Web Desk

LENGTH: 263  words


India has told Pakistan not to interfere in its internal affairs

In comments that are likely to fuel the fire between India and Pakistan, Khawaja
M Asif, Pakistan's Federal Minister of Water, Power and Defence drew a parallel
between the current unrest in Kashmir to the Gujarat riots of 2002.

He called the violence in Kashmir 'extention & re enactment of ethnic cleansing
started by Modi in Gujrat.' The comments came on Asif's Twitter handle earlier
today.

Massacre & genocide in Indian Occupied Kashmir is extention & re enactment of
ethnic cleansing started by Modi in Gujrat..

- Khawaja M. Asif (@KhawajaMAsif) July 15, 2016

At a special cabinet meeting in Lahore today, Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif called
slain Hizbul Mujahideen militant commander Burhan Wani a 'martyr' and announced
that July 19 will be observed as a 'black day to express solidarity with the
people of Kashmir.'

The move came after days of India telling Pakistan not to interfere in its
internal affairs. In a strongly-worded statement, India's ambassador to the
United Nations Syed Akbaruddin said Pakistan 'covets territory of others and
uses terrorism as state policy.'

Asif's comments may deteriorate the already-fragile ties between the two
countries.

The current unrest in Jammu and Kashmir began after the killing of Burhan Wani
in a special operation and has led to the death of at least 36 people. The
Kashmir Valley has witnessed clashes between protesters and security forces at
several places. Curfew remains clamped in many districts. The Amarnath Yatra
remained suspended for the second consecutive day.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                               September 13, 2000

Hate politics has parallels with anti-Semitic movement

BYLINE: By Rozi Ali

SECTION: Opinion Ruminations; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 656 words


WHEN politics of hate made its way into the local political vocabulary,
one's first reaction is to treat it as a political bluff. But it is not.

Whether the Pas leadership intended it or not, hate speech has become
almost the party's trademark in its political mobilisation programme.
Politicisation and unsubstantiated claims aside, Pas ceramahs tend to be
characterised with obscene polemic.

Stripped of its political discourse of the Quranic quotes, one can see
that hate speech is first condoned and then regularised and routinised.

Pas may argue, as did president Datuk Fadzil Noor, that its anti-
Umno/anti-Government posture is reflective of the rakyat's sentiments and
that it has not embarked on a conscious implementation of political hate.
But the fact remains that Pas' twisted religo-political sensibility has
introduced a confrontational fractiousness into Malay politics.

As is the tendency, the consequences of the politics of hate are
inscrutable to the perpetrators. History, however, is replete with
examples. The ideology that inspired hate politics, be it racial or
religious hatred, is part of a continuum that stretches from Adolf
Hitler's anti-Semitism and Mussolini's fascist nationalism to ethnic
cleansing in Bosnia, anti-Muslim and anti-Christian campaigns by India's
Bharatiya Janata Party.

On scrutiny, it is no exaggeration to say that the upsurge in hate
politics hitherto seen have parallels with Germany's anti-Semitic
movement. Noted by F.L Carsten in The Rise of Fascism is that anti-
Semitism as a political platform in Germany was not born in the 1920s.

It was conceived in 1870 with Adolf Stoecker's Christian-Socialism
Workers Party which had grievances against stock-market based capitalism.
These sentiments assumed an intellectual tone in 1868 when intellectuals
joined the fray. Examples: In 1871, seminary teacher August Rohling wrote
a distorted version of the Talmud, proving the doctrine commanded ritual
murder. Berlin University historian Heinrich von Treitschke published a
series of articles in 1879 which ended with "The Jews are our misfortune".

Hitler's quote from Mein Kampf is no different from the fiery call of
India's Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray to Hindus to "open their third
eye, like Shiva" and "teach (Muslims) a lesson"; "If a holy war is to
begin because of me, than so be it" and thus, Mumbai burned in the 1992-
1993 riots (India Today, July 31, 2000).

Nor is it, in essence, any different from Amanat Haji Hadi, the 1981
decree of Terengganu Menteri Besar Abdul Hadi Awang whereby he declared
that: "We are fighting Umno not because the party's name is Umno; ... we
are fighting them because they are perpetuating ...the infidels' rules...
Our struggle is jihad (and) if we should perish because of this fight, we
die as syahid (martyrs)."

What difference is Bonn University's Etherlbert Stauffer's call for
devout Christians to become National Socialists as a means to prove their
faith from Pas' campaign of intimidation that "a Muslim will not go to
Heaven if he votes for a non-Islamic party"?

Abdul Hadi's waffling and equivocation on the decree is irresponsible.
His claim that the people's interpretation of his speech' is beyond his
control rings true only because forces of bigotry and hatred cannot be
controlled once they are unleashed and mobilised to perpetrate mindless
and barbaric violence.

History shows that those with the least moral restraints and inner
resistance succumb to religious manipulations by purveyors of political
hatred. The fusion of religion and politics prove dangerous when religious
teachings are skewered by a mood of intolerance. But curiously, Umno seems
to be afflicted by a stupor of confusion just when it should be mounting a
spirited counter-offensive against Pas and when it should be mustering
strength to recapture the hearts of Malays.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              152 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Guj govt guns for US NGO funding Teesta

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 384 words


After targeting social activist Teesta Setalvad, who has been a vocal critic of
PM Narendra Modi since the 2002 Gujarat riots, the Gujarat government has
trained its guns on her main funding source, the USbased NGO, Ford Foundation,
for "direct interference... in the internal affairs of the country and also
abetting communal disharmony in India".

The Gujarat government has written to MHA to investigate possible violations
under FEMA by Setalvad's NGOs, Sabrang Trust and Citizens for Justice &
Peace.The government has called these "proxy offices of Ford Foundation" for a
long-term plan. The letter also states that Setalvad and her husband Javed Anand
have maligned India's image abroad.

Acting on the letter from the Gujarat government, MHA last week sent its team to
inspect the accounts of Setalvad's two NGOs. It has completed the inspection and
will submit its findings soon. The Gujarat home department has also accused the
Ford Foundation of interfering with the judicial system, defaming the Indian
military , and acting against the stated goal of promoting communal harmony .

It has accused the funding agency of encouraging Setalvad's NGOs to advocate "a
religion specific and Muslim supportive criminal

code and also keep the 2002 riots incident alive". The Gujarat government has
also accused the Ford Foundation of "blatantly supporting one religion (Islam)
with a strange argument that it helps secular democracy".

"We wrote to MHA a month ago. We are awaiting response," said additional chief
secretary (home), G R Aloria. "In case violations of the FCRA (Foreign
Contributions Regulation Act, 2010) are noticed, we will seek an explanation
from the NGO before initiating further action. However, if the FCRA violation is
of serious nature, we can also send an immediate notice to the errant NGO asking
why it should not be put on prior approval list," a senior home ministry
official told TOI on condition of anonymity .

Earlier, the Ahmedabad crime branch had registered a case against Setalvad and
Anand for allegedly embezzling funds meant for riot victims. The Gujarat high
court had taken a very serious view of "corruption" by voluntary organization
and refused anticipatory bail to Setalvad and Anand. Later, the two got reprieve
from the SC. The matter is pending with the apex court.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday
                                  Pune Edition

Ex-Union home secy 'gagged' from panning beef ban

BYLINE: Priyanka.Kakodkar@timesgroup.com

SECTION: THE TIMES OF INDIA

LENGTH: 703 words


A hard-hitting lecture on the lack of secularism in the country, which was to be
delivered by former Union home secretary Madhav Godbole at Mantralaya on April
4, was abruptly cancelled. This has raised questions about whether the

organizers were uncomfortable with the content, which included criticism of the
cow slaughter ban. The event had been organised by the Maharashtra branch of the
Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), an independent body .

Sources said Godbole was invited to deliver the B G Deshmukh memorial lecture by
sta

te chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya. The latter is the honorary chairman of
IIPA's Maharashtra wing. Godbole had delivered the B G Deshmukh memorial lecture
on two earlier occasions. This time, he chose the topic 'Is India a Secular
Nation?', an issue dealt with in his forthcoming book.

He was asked for an ad vance copy of his speech to circulate in the audience, as
is the usual practice.This was sent to the organizers on March 11, sources said.

However, on April 1--just

three days before the event was scheduled--Godbole received an e-mail cancelling
the lecture, sources said.

The reason given was that it coincided with the ongoing budget session of the
state assembly. However, the date for the event had been picked by the
organizers who are expected to be aware of the state government's schedule. TOI
has accessed a copy of Godbole's lecture.

When contacted, Kshatriya said, "The lecture has been postponed since IAS
officers would not have been able to attend it owing to the assembly session."
When told that the lecture had in fact been cancelled, Kshatriya said, "I will
find out the details after the assembly session." He also pointed out that the
event had been organized by the IIPA, not the state government.

In the lecture, Godbole says "the concept of secularism has lost all
credibility". The lecture points out India's survival as a

multi-cultural country will depend on how successful it is in working its
secularism. It also suggests ways in which secularism can be operationalised.

"It is disconcerting that in recent times, serious questions are being raised
about India's secularism. It is for the first time since Independence that the
Hindu Rashtra ideology is being talked about so openly, defiantly and
persistently," the lecture says.

It lists several signposts which "raise serious doubts" about how secular the
country is. These include the non-separation of religion from politics, the
destruction of the Babri Masjid, the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, the 1992-93
Mumbai riots and the Godhra violence followed by the Gujarat riots in 2002.

"The demolition of the Babri Masjid is a shameful chapter in India's recent
history, raising serious doubts about its secularism," the lecture says.About
the Godhra riots, it says, "The Godhra riots were qualitatively different in
that it was state-sponsored violence against the minorities." The anti-Sikh
riots, it says, were all the more shocking since they took place under the
"benign leadership of the Central government."

The lecture is critical of suc

cessive governments for failing to take action against perpetrators of communal
violence."What is striking is the total lack of political will on the part of
all political parties to address these critical issues, raising serious doubts
about their real commitment to secularism, whatever may be the rhetoric indulged
in by them for public consumption," it says.

In his lecture Godbole has opposed the ban on cow slaughter. Pointing out that
such a ban was not in keeping with secularism, the lecture says, "Particularly
after the BJP government came to power in the Centre in 2014, the demand for
banning cow slaughter has gained strength. Effectively 'ban the beef ' has
become the national motto and another potent instrument in the hands of
extremist elements to disturb the peace, tranquility and communal harmony of the
country."

The lecture suggests setting up a constitutional Commission on Secularism to
that the mandate on secularism is implemented. "Such a commission will be able
to take a holistic view on all matters pertaining to secularism and even
intervene in matters coming up before the high courts and Supreme Court," it
suggests.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday
                                Lucknow Edition

Former home secy 'gagged' from questioning India's secularism

BYLINE: Priyanka.Kakodkar@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 562 words


The abrupt cancellation of a hard-hitting lecture on the lack of secularism in
the country , which was to be delivered by former Union home secretary Madhav
Godbole at Mantralaya on April 4, has raised questions about whether the
organisers felt uncomfortable about its content, which included criticism of the
ban on cow slaughter.

The event had been organised by the Maharashtra branch of Indian Institute of
Public Administration (IIPA), an independent body .

Sources said Godbole was invited to deliver the B G Deshmukh memorial lecture by
state chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya, the honorary chairman of IIPA's state
wing. Godbole has delivered the B G Deshmukh memorial lecture twice before. This
time, he chose the topic 'Is India a Secular Nation?', an issue also dealt with
in his forthcoming book. He was asked for a copy of his speech in advance to
circulate among audience

members, as is the practice. This was sent to the organisers on March 11,
sources said.

However, on April 1, Godbole was informed that the lecture had been cancelled as
it coincided with the ongoing budget session of the assembly . However, the date
for the event had been picked by the organisers, who are expected to be aware of
the state government's schedule.

When contacted, Kshatriya said, "The lecture has been postponed since IAS
officers would not have been able to attend." When told it had, in fact, been
cancelled, he added, "I will find out

the details after the assembly session." He also pointed out that the event had
been organised by the IIPA, not the state government.

TOI has accessed a copy of the speech, in which Godbole writes "the concept of
secularism has lost all credibility". "It is disconcerting that in recent times,
serious questions are being raised about India's secularism. It is for the first
time since Independence that the 'Hindu Rashtra' ideology is being talked about
so openly , defiantly and persistently ," he adds.

It lists several signposts which "raise serious doubts" about India's
secularism, the including the destruction of the Babri masjid, the anti-Sikh
riots in Delhi, the 1992-93 Mumbai riots and the post-Godhra violence.

"The demolition of the Babri Masjid is a shameful chapter in India's recent
history , raising serious doubts about its secularism," he says. About the
Gujarat riots, he says, "The Godhra riots were qualitatively different in that
it was state-sponsored violence

against the minorities." The anti-Sikh riots, he says, were all the more
shocking since they took place under the "benign leadership of the central
government". The speech is critical of successive governments for failing to
take action against perpetrators of communal violence.

"What is striking is the total lack of political will on the part of all
political parties to address these critical issues, raising serious doubts about
their real commitment to secularism, whatever may be the rhetoric indulged in by
them for public consumption," it says.

Pointing out that the ban on cow slaughter is not in keeping with secularism, he
says, "Particularly after the BJP government came to power in the Centre in
2014, the demand for banning cow slaughter has gained strength. Effectively ,
'ban the beef ' has become the national motto and another potent instrument in
the hands of extremist elements to disturb the peace and communal harmony of the
country ."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday
                                Chennai Edition

Ex-home secy 'gagged' from questioning India's secularism

BYLINE: Priyanka.Kakodkar@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 573 words


A hard-hitting lecture on the lack of secularism in the country , which was to
be delivered by former Union home secretary Madhav Godbole at Mantralaya on
April 4, was abruptly cancelled. This has raised questions about whether the
organizers were uncomfortable with the content, which included criticism of the
cow slaughter ban. The event had been organised by the Maharashtra branch of the
Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), an independent body .

Sources said Godbole was invited to deliver the B G Deshmukh memorial lecture by
state chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya. The latter is the honorary chairman of
IIPA 's Maharashtra wing. Godbole had delivered the B G Deshmukh memorial
lecture on two earlier occasions. This time, he chose the topic 'Is India a
Secular Nation?' an issue dealt with in his forthcoming book. He was asked for
an advance copy of his speech to circulate in the audience, as is the usual
practice. This was sent to the organizers on March 11, sources said.

However, on April 1 -just three days before the event was scheduled -Godbole
received an e-mail cancelling the lecture, sources said. The reason given was
that it coincided with the ongoing budget session of the state assembly
.However, the date for the event

had been picked by the organizers who are expected to be aware of the state
government's schedule. TOI has accessed a copy of Godbole's lecture.

When contacted, Kshatriya said, "The lecture has been postponed since IAS
officers would not have been able to attend it owing to the assembly session."
When told that the lecture had in fact been cancelled, Kshatriya said, "I will
find out the details after the assembly session." He also pointed out that the
event had been organized by the IIPA, not the state government.

In the lecture, Godbole says "the concept of secularism has lost all
credibility".The lecture points out India's survival as a multi-cultural country
will depend on how successful it is in working its secularism. It also suggests
ways in which secularism can be operationalised.

"It is disconcerting that in recent times, serious questions are being raised
about India's secularism. It is for the first time since Independence that the
Hindu Rashtra ideology is being talked about so openly , defiantly and
persistently ," the lecture says.

It lists several signposts

which "raise serious doubts" about how secular the country is. These include the
non-separation of religion from politics, the destruction of the Babri Masjid,
the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, the 1992-93 Mumbai riots and the Godhra violence
followed by the Gujarat riots in 2002.

"The demolition of the Babri Masjid is a shameful chapter in India's recent
history , raising serious doubts about its secularism," the lecture says. About
the Godhra riots, it says, "The Godhra riots were qualitatively different in
that it was state-sponsored violence against the minorities." The anti-Sikh
riots, it says, were all the more shocking since they took place under the
"benign leadership of the Central government."

The lecture is critical of successive governments for failing to take action
against perpetrators of communal violence. "What is striking is the total lack
of political will on the part of all political parties to address these critical
issues, raising serious doubts about their real commitment to secularism,
whatever may be the rhetoric indulged in by them for public consumption," it
says.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

NOT SO WONDERFUL

BYLINE: A funny-in-parts Gurinder Chadha film, PRIYANKA ROY Did you like/not
like IAWA? Tell t2@abpmail.com

LENGTH: 660  words


Aburlesque comedy thriving on mad moments and grotesque exaggeration, It's A
Wonderful Afterlife promises too much and delivers too little. Filmed on the
lines of an Ealing comedy where raucous humour meets pure silliness, this
Gurinder Chadha film elicits easy laughter in parts - even the occasional belly
laugh - but is unfortunately an uneven, sometimes boring, ride for the larger
part of its 100 minutes of running time.

Much like the director's highly acclaimed Bend It Like Beckham, IAWA is set in
the burgeoning Asian community in London's Southall. Among its thousands of
residents is Mrs Sethi (Shabana Azmi), a just-widowed overbearing, but
affectionate Punjabi mother whose only aim in life is to get daughter Roopi
(Goldy Notay) married. But this is easier said than done for Roopi is not only
dowdy and overweight, but a feminist to boot who thinks that rolling out
chapatis is a sign of oppression against women!

The desperate Mrs Sethi tries to matchmake unsuccessfully, meeting with
humiliating comments like, "Whoever marries her will never need a mattress" and
"Her bottom is larger than a buffalo's", causing her to go over the edge and
turn into the Curry Killer of Southall, a murderer who torments her victims -
the men who have jilted Roopi and/or their matchmakers - to death by food.
Mauling with a rolling pin, suffocating to death with flour dough, force-feeding
a suitor to the point that his entrails literally explode in the attending
doctor's face or even sticking a skewer - complete with succulent pieces of
chicken - in a victim's neck, murderous mayhem is unleashed.

But no one suspects the unassuming Mrs Sethi till the time all the victims - now
restless spirits - return to torment her. What starts off as an uneasy
relationship, however, soon develops into a peaceful coexistence. The spirits
not only watch TV and go shopping with Mrs Sethi, they also help her in finding
a suitable match for Roopi.

Over the top and relying largely on broad, farcical humour, all is good with
IAWA as long as the comic moments keep coming. Mrs Sethi's delightful
interactions with the powder-grey ghosts who function much like a Greek chorus
and Roopi's best friend Linda's (Sally Hawkins) predilection to slip into
'psychic' mode at every available opportunity are good fun. The Carrie-inspired
scene in which a spurned Linda causes champagne bottles to spray off at will,
makes papads fly in the air and indulges in a curry fight at her own engagement
is one of the high points of the film. Bizarre yes, but you can't stop that
guffaw.

The rest of IAWA isn't half as delightful. The romance between Roopi and Raj
(Sendhil 'he's-so-hot' Ramamurthy) is too half-baked to register while the
uninspired climax is a bit of a downer. The film drags on for the most part,
making it more suitable for a long-running sitcom.

Like Bend It Like Beckham, IAWA had the potential to be a girl-power movie. But
apart from the mention of an abusive marriage here and women's rights there,
Gurinder Chadha restricts herself to a crowd-pleaser comedy. Whenever she
attempts to juggle genres, the film falls flat.

If the writing is a letdown, the performances lift IAWA. Overweight and unkempt,
Shabana Azmi is a perfect fit as Mrs Sethi, moving effortlessly from the comic
scenes to the poignant moments.

Goldy Notay does well as the spurned Roopi who eventually comes into her own
while Sally Hawkins is a riot as the India-obsessed Linda.

Of the ghosts, Sanjeev Bhaskar - think Kumars at No. 42 - has the best lines,
but it is Zoe Wanamaker - as Mrs Sethi's friendly neighbour who falls prey to a
poisoned laddoo - who enthralls.

The final word from a woman watcher? While his acting skills may be a little
suspect, it is the gorgeous Sendhil Ramamurthy who makes the Afterlife trip
worthwhile. Just watch his Raj romancing Roopi with British band Black's eternal
classic It's A Wonderful Life playing in the background. Hey, this life isn't so
bad after all!

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2010 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      June 26, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

'Narendra Modi is like Vajpayee minus secular credentials'

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 226  words


Nagpur/Ahmedabad: Former Lok Sabha Speaker PA Sangma on Tuesday drew comparisons
between Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, saying
that the BJP strongman is a good administrator but lacks secular credentials
unlike the erstwhile Prime Minister.

"Modi has tremendous capacities and will power to transform... He is a good
administrator but the only drawback is his non-secular credentials," he said.

"His qualities resemble (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee. He has proved his abilities in
Gujarat but when it comes to lead the nation, if at all BJP-led NDA comes to
power in 2014, it will be a great challenge for him...He will be more concerned
about good governance," Sangma told a news agency in an interview.

On 2002 Godhra riots haunting Modi, Sangma said, "When country can forget the
demolition of Babri Masjid, people will also forget the Godhra riots."

"India has enormous capacity to absolve crises," he said on the Babri issue.

Sangma also ruled out early elections.

On the post-election scenario, he said the prospects of the Federal Front mooted
by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee were dim.

There are several like Mulayam Singh Yadav, Lalu Yadav and others to lead and
therefore it will be a mess, he felt.

On BJP-JD(U)'s severed ties, Sangma said the latter will be the sufferer in the
forthcoming Lok Sabha polls.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     August 14, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Modi thanks British MPs for UK invite

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 279  words


Ahmedabad, Aug 14 (IBNS) Gujarat Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)
strongman Narendra Modi on Wednesday thanked British MPs for inviting him to the
United Kingdom (UK).

"Thankful to British MPs for their invites in the spirit of dialogue and
engagement," tweeted Modi.

Indian groups of United Kingdoms two major political parties, the Conservative
Party and the Labour Party, have invited Modi to visit the country, reports said
on Tuesday.

According to reports, inviting Modi to the House of Commons to speak on 'The
Future of Modern India, the Labour Friends of India chairman Barry Gardiner sent
a letter to the BJP leader last week.

The Conservative Friends of India also invited Modi last week.

Ending Britains diplomatic exclusion of Modi that was caused after the 2002
riots, the British High Commissioner to India James Bevan met him last year.

Bevan's meeting with Modi was taken as a step to normalise Britains relationship
with Gujarat, a state where the state administration was blamed for much of the
fallout of the 2002 anti-Muslim riots.

According to reports, protests occurred in UK during Modis visit to the country
in 2003 due to his alleged role in the 2002 riots in the state.

He was denied a visa to visit UK in 2005.

The infamous Gujarat riots of 2002 left hundreds of Muslims dead, injured and
tortured and came as a blot in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule in the
state.

The riots followed an incident of train burning in Godhra in which Hindus
returning from Ayodhya were killed by a Muslim mob.

Around 1,000 supporters of prime accused Maulvi Umarjihad attacked the coach at
the Godhra station and torched it killing 59 people and injuring many.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     August 14, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Narendra Modi invited to visit UK

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 250  words


Ahmedabad, Aug 13 (IBNS): Indian groups of United Kingdom's two major political
parties, the Conservative Party and the Labour Party, have invited Gujarat Chief
Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) strongman Narendra Modi to visit the
country, reports said on Tuesday.

According to reports, inviting Modi to the House of Commons to speak on 'The
Future of Modern India, the Labour Friends of India chairman Barry Gardiner sent
a letter to the BJP leader last week.

The Conservative Friends of India also invited Modi last week.

Ending Britains diplomatic exclusion of Modi that was caused after the 2002
riots, the British High Commissioner to India James Bevan met him last year.

Bevan's meeting with Modi was taken as a step to normalise Britains relationship
with Gujarat, a state where the state administration was blamed for much of the
fallout of the 2002 anti-Muslim riots.

According to reports, protests occurred in UK during Modis visit to the country
in 2003 due to his alleged role in the 2002 riots in the state.

He was denied a visa to visit UK in 2005.

The infamous Gujarat riots of 2002 left hundreds of Muslims dead, injured and
tortured and came as a blot in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule in the
state.

The riots followed an incident of train burning in Godhra in which Hindus
returning from Ayodhya were killed by a Muslim mob.

Around 1,000 supporters of prime accused Maulvi Umarjihad attacked the coach at
the Godhra station and torched it killing 59 people and injuring many.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      October 31, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Modi's

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 656  words


New Delhi, Oct 31 (IBNS): A war of words between BJP and Congress ensued on
Friday following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's comments on anti-Sikh riot and
absence of any central Government's leaders at former Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi's memorial to pay tribute to her, media reports said.

According to reports, the row sparked off after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on
Friday called the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a dagger pierced through Indias
chest. Speaking at the Run for Unity to mark Sardar Vallabhbhai Patels birth
anniversary, Modi took a dig at Congress and said, Our own people were murdered,
the attack was not on a particular community but on the entire nation. It was
like a dagger pierced through Indias chest. Following the aftermath of former
Prime Minister Indira Gandhis assassination by her own Sikh bodyguards at her
residence in Delhi, an anti-sikh riot broke out in which over three thousand
people, mostly belonging to Sikh community were killed. Indiras assassination
took place in an apparent revenge to her decision to sanction Operation
Bluestar, by storming of the Golden Temple of Amritsar to flush out Sikh
militants, mainly belonging to Sikh radical Babbar Khalsa group, who were said
to be hiding there. Allegations are that, the anti-Sikh riot was led by Congress
leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar. Opposition had time and again accused
the Congress and UPA of trying to protect these leaders. Incidentally, Friday
was also the 30th death anniversary of Indira Gandhi. It has been learnt that
Congress took serious exception of Modis comments and termed them as an insult.
Furthermore, neither the Prime Minister nor anyone from the Central Government
arrived at Indira Gandhis memorial Shakti Sthal to pay tribute. Modi though,
tweeted his tribute in the morning, saying, I join my fellow countrymen women in
remembering former PM Smt. Indira Gandhi on her Punya Tithi (death anniversary).
It is unfortunate that on the birth anniversary of the man who dedicated his
life in uniting the country, a tragic incident took place 30 years ago that
shook the country and left it deeply scarred, Modi added. It has been learnt
that absence of Modi and other leaders of NDA Government to pay respects to
Indira Gandhi and PMs speech left Congress fuming. Party leaders said it is the
first time that Indira Gandhis death anniversary was marked without any state
patronage. President Pranab Mukherjee and Vice President Hamid Ansari were the
only dignitaries to join the homage for Indira Gandhi, besides Congress leaders
including Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. According to media reports, after Centres
snub, a war-of-words followed between the Congress and BJP. Congress accused the
latter of being partisan and disrespectful. It is petty-minded, it is partisan
and disrespectful to those who gave their lives to their country, particularly
Indira Gandhi who gave hers for the unity of this country, Deputy Leader of the
Opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma is quoted by media as saying. Congress
leader Manish Tewari said it is the responsibility of every government to honour
Indira Gandhis sacrifice and if any dispensation did not do it, then it was
detracting from its duty. BJP on the other hand accused Congress of politicising
the issue. Media quoted BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli saying, Congress is trying
consistently to politicise such issues. Do they prefer to see everything in
history through the perspective of Nehru-Gandhi family? he questioned. Union
Minister Venkaiah Naidu also reportedly said that there was no question of
belittling the importance of any leader. There is no question of belittling the
importance of any leader...Every leader has their place in history. There is no
question of denying that. But at the same time media quoted him as saying that
Sardar Patel is one of the top most leaders who was a freedom fighter, unifier
of India...who should be role model for all.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            February 12, 2012 Sunday

Mutual brotherhood of Indians is exemplary ' Abid Hussain

LENGTH: 207 words


Hyderabad, February 12: Former Ambassador of India to America Dr. Syed Abid
Hussain said that the mutual brotherhood of the Indians is the live example of
integration Dr. Abid Hussain was addressing a memorial lecture organized by
Pillai Foundation. The programme was attended by the Chief Justice of High Court
Madan B. Lokur, Dr. A. Chakrapani Chairman, A.P. Legislative Council.

Dr. Abid Hussain told that the example of India is not found anywhere in the
world where people of various religions live like a bouquet if different
flowers.

He declared Gujarat riots as a shameful incident and said that in condemning
these riots, the entire country stood against it, proceedings of Parliament were
stalled.

People from majority community demanded stern action against those who were
involved in these riots. He said that miscreants have been making attempts to
disrupt the solidarity of the nation which are not associated with any religion.
He stressed the need to keep the younger generation abreast of the foundation
laid for communal harmony. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Siasat Daily. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Debating Communal Violence Bill

LENGTH: 1567 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, June 2 -- India has been subject to communal violence right from the
first Post Partition riot of 1961 in Jabalpur. Later one saw the intensification
of this violence in the decade of 1980, from which time it has become a major
issue disrupting peace and amity amongst religious communities. The most
disturbing of these riots have been the Anti-Sikh Pogrom of 1984 (Delhi) anti
Muslim carnage of 1992-93 (Mumbai in particular) and 2002 (Gujarat). Anti
Christian violence surfaced with the sporadic acts and went on becoming
worsening, the burning alive of Pastor Graham Stains (1999) and Kandhmal
violence of 2008 being the horrific example of this.

With this concern the UPA introduced a Bill to strengthen legal mechanism to
deal with the violence. Somehow the bill as drafted earlier turned out to be 'a
remedy worse that disease'. Though this Bill is already in Rajya Sabha the human
rights activists and representations from affected minority communities
protested and pointed out the fallacies of the Bill. Responding to their
anguish, UPA II gave the task of drafting the bill to National Advisory
Committee. Two of whose members (Farah Naqvi and Harsh Mander) convened the
Advisory Group with social activists to prepare a draft. After the intense
efforts for over a period of one and a half years the draft is in the final
stage May 2011), and has been put on its websites and is awaiting the final
touch up before being submitted to the Government.

A study of this draft reveals that for the first time a significant step in
communal violence control has been undertaken in a most serious way. This Bill
covers most of the points which lead to violence, add to sustaining it, and
later lead to denial of justice. As such the most neglected areas of violence
against women, the area of rehabilitation and reparation also get a prominent
and adequate recommendation from this Bill.

One concedes that some rough edges of the Bill do need smoothening, but still
overall it is a landmark step in trying to create an institutional mechanism to
boost National integration and Communal Harmony. Notwithstanding that, the BJP
leadership, Arun Jaitley, and a section of media has already started to oppose
the Bill and is propagating that the Bill just talks of violence against
Minorities (i.e. Muslims and Christians) and ignores the violence against the
majority community. Nothing can be farther from truth. The attempt of the draft
is to define the Minority as the religious, linguistic groups. It also brings in
the targeted violence against SC and ST. The concept of the draft is guided by
the total experience of the society during last six decades.

The data of last six decades is very revealing. In 1991, it was estimated that
while the percentage of Muslim minorities is 12.4 in the population, amongst the
riot victims Muslims were 80%. The latest data reveals that Muslims constitute
90% of the victims of violence. The anti Christian violence figures speak for
themselves, where one notices that not only sporadic violence has been on the
rise, there are concerted acts of violence, like the one witnessed in Kandhmal.
The violence against dalits and STs has been occurring regularly. In that sense
the focus of this draft is well taken, as it is taking into consideration the
concrete realties of our society.

This focus is very similar to the focus of Domestic Violence bill and the bill
against atrocities on Dalits and STs. While there may be few acts of violence
against men by women, it is primarily women who are the major victims of
domestic violence. Similarly while upper caste may be the victims of violence by
dalits-STs occasionally, the major brunt is borne by dalits and STs, so this
focus. It also does not mean that violence against men or upper caste will go
unpunished or unaddressed. Similarly those from the majority who suffer due to
violence initiated by minorities should be suitably given justice, most of the
provisions for this are already there. Needless to say even in the anti-minority
targeted violence, some from the majority also have to suffer incidentally;
justice to them is part of the system and existing provisions.

So does this draft ignore the Hindu majority? Let's notice that the focus of
definition of Minority group is as religious, linguistic, caste and tribe. As
per that we can easily see that Hindus are a religious minority in seven states
in India, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, and
Andaman-Nicobar. Hindus are linguistic minorities in many states. The bill also
talks of SCs and STs on the same ground. With such an approach the long standing
issue of Kashmiri Pundits also gets a new mechanism which can help get them
justice as they are a minority in their state.

The argument that it does not address the violence of minority against the
majority religious community is a deliberate propaganda on the part of BJP. One
knows that this Bill is aiming at curbing the mass violence. The mass violence
has been mainly against religious minorities. The religious minorities also
suffer from the institutional bias at the hands of the police, bureaucracy and
other state institutions. Most of the studies have demonstrated this fact and
one must recall the conclusions of the study of Dr. Vibhuti Nariain Rai, a
Police officer, who concluded that police attitude is heavily biased against
religious minorities and that in most of the mass violence cases a situation is
created by the majoritiarian political groups, where by the Muslims are
cornered, forced against the wall; where sometimes they throw the first stone
out of sheer frustration. This Bill deals with the mass violence and not
isolated incidents here and there. The existing clauses of IPC and Cr PC are
fairly adequate to deal with the violence against majority community.

The major highlight of this Bill is to ensure the accountability of the
officials whose act of commission and omission are at the root of the
continuation of the violence. They in turn are sometimes being dictated by the
political leadership. Again as Rai points out no act of communal violence can go
on beyond 48 hours unless the administration is complicit in the violence. The
attempt of the Draft Bill is also to pin down the political leadership which is
behind the foot soldiers on the rampage in the streets. The experience of most
the riots and the inquiry reports of most of the major events of communal
violence show that there is a well planned execution of the anti minority
violence, so the leadership of political group behind these perpetrators will
also come under the gambit of the bill. The most significant point is to take
action against the Hate propaganda against the vulnerable communities and their
economic and social boycott. This bill attempts to address those delicate areas
of our political reality.

With this it becomes obvious that the BJP and associates, the progeny of RSS,
attempting to create 'Hindu Majoritarian State' will naturally be disturbed by
the Bill trying to comprehensively deal with the issue, to ensure our effort to
maintain the plural structure of our state where we all can live the life of
dignity. The bill does recognize that communal violence is trying to shift of
our polity in a sectarian direction and it is the duty of state to provide the
atmosphere of security for all the citizens.

The strong aspects of the Bill relate to ensuring that state as the guardian of
all, vulnerable sections included, must take responsibility of the victims of
violence, their rehabilitation and process of reparation put in place to ensure
that the affected communities are not boycotted after the violence and are able
to live the life of peace and amity.

The role of Central Government in monitoring the whole process, and the
center-state relations are the points which do need refining so that Center is
able to curb the mass violence without stepping on the toes of the state
Government. That's a matter of fine tuning the bill. The need is to ensure that
the existing mechanisms of justice are properly implemented and victims are
empowered. The nature of National Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and
Reparation, as suggested by NAC, with 7 members, four of them being from
minority community is a welcome part of the draft. One hopes this body is
modeled on the functioning of Election Commission, with adequate powers without
disturbing the existing mechanisms, just ensuring that existing power structures
and mechanisms become properly answerable. In this accountability and command
responsibility of those from the top also come under the purview for their
decisions related to commission or omission both. One also knows that mere laws
don't solve all the problems. The need to instill the values of amity and
harmony as embodied in our freedom movement need to be re-emphasized by the
state and social movements so that such a bill becomes a real effective check on
the divisive tendencies in the society.

Ram Puniyani was a professor in biomedical engineering at the Indian Institute
of Technology Bombay, and took voluntary retirement in December 2004 to work
full time for communal harmony in India. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Kashmir Times. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday

Justice not so blind

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 3 -- Selective memory, or to be precise, memory loss afflicting
India's famed judicial system is beginning to erode the faith and confidence of
its hapless victims who, invariably, happened to be either from the minority
communities or from the lowest rung of social ladder. It has taken over three
years for the country's highest court to point out the governmental 'lapse' in
not challenging the lower court's order absolving LK Advani of conspiracy charge
in the 21 year old Babri Masjid demolition case. As opposed to this, the Supreme
Court did not lose much time in concluding the trial procedure in cases rooted,
directly or indirectly, in the situation arising out of the demolition of Babri
Masjid in December, 1992. Only recently, the convicts in the Bombay blasts case
(of 1993) were handed down their final sentence amid much fanfare across the
country. Bombay blasts, resulting in nearly 200 deaths, it may be recalled,
followed the prolonged communal riots in Bombay in which nearly one thousand
people, mostly Muslims, were killed. The findings of the Srikrishna inquiry
commission pinpointed dozens of cases of police collusion in those riots and
exposed how the Congress-run state government in Maharashtra had wilfully
abdicated its responsibility towards protecting Muslim minority. Successive
governments in Maharashtra have ignored Srikrishna probe findings, obviously for
partisan political reasons.

The tragedy is that even the judicial system has been lethargic, to say the
least, in providing justice to the victims of 1992-93 communal violence, much
less punishing the policemen accused of colluding with the Shiva Sena-led
rioters. The speed with which the cases related to the (subsequent) 1993 Bombay
blasts were taken to conclusion and guilty punished contrasts with the lack of
interest being shown in earlier cases in which the minority community happened
to be at the receiving end. Whatever the reason or truth behind this glaring
discrepancy, the only obvious conclusion is that justice in India is, after all,
not so 'blind' as is presumed to be: It does see but only with one eye.

Christian community in India has been shrieking over inordinate delay in
prosecuting the accused involved in Kandhamal rioting in Odisha. Five years back
36 people were killed and 35 women sexually abused. Several independent
inquiries have established the fact that these riots could have been prevented
if only the local administration had used available force. Like in the case of
Bombay riots in 1992-93, sufferers in this case were the members of the minority
community.

Obviously, there is a definite pattern. What happened under the Congress rule in
Maharashtra got replicated in Odisha under the BJD rule. Of course, it reached
its dastardly climax, under the BJP dispensation in 2002 , in Gujarat riots when
there was naked dance of death and destruction under the 'prime
minister-hopeful' Narendra Modi's command. Audacious elevation of Modi and his
accomplice Ami Shah by the BJP in the run up to the 2014 national elections
presents a frightening scenario for the minorities in India.

Perhaps its impact could have been somewhat neutralised if the country's
judicial system had acquitted itself as it was expected to do. Unfortunately,
that has not happened and there is precious little hope of its happening in the
near future. What else can one conclude from the stark fact that the Supreme
Court continues to show limitless patience in dealing with cases relating to the
demolition of the Babri Masjid but acted with commendable, though unfamiliar,
speed, in winding up the cases rooted, directly or indirectly, in that 21 year
old communal atrocity?

The CBI has failed to show any hurry either, unlike in several other cases where
its political masters' partisan interests are involved. It has yet to file an
appeal against the (2010) lower court decision striking down conspiracy charges
against Advani. Three years is too long a period to file an appeal, if of
course, there is will to do that. It is this lack of will running across the
establishment that is as devastating as the mayhem directed at the voiceless
minority communities in this country. The apex court owes it to its name and
fame to be seen acting in such a manner as to instil confidence across the
board. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday

Poll outcome in North India will decide who rules India

LENGTH: 1170 words

DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, Feb. 22 -- North India has always been the gateway to the Delhi throne
and Uttar Pradesh the key that opened it. Of the 543 jewels that adorn the
throne, 151 come from the north with Uttar Pradesh contributing 80 priceless
gems. And when the battle for the throne begins in a few months, all the king's
horses and all the king's men will jump into the fray. For such has been the
politics of north India, especially in the Hindi heartland of UP, that even the
'wretched of the earth' become the 'flavour of the season' for ample reason. For
long, in the 'feudal area of the north', caste, along with religion, has played
an important role in daily life and elections and will continue to do so in the
Lok Sabha polls this April-May as well.

How different parties will play their cards in UP will be an interesting
brain-teaser.But one issue that will definitely have a bearing on the electoral
politics in the coming months is the Muzaffarnagar communal riots- India's
deadliest in a decade that left 59 dead and more than 50,000 homeless and badly
polarized the State's Hindus and Muslims. The ruling Samajwadi Party, the third
largest party in the outgoing Lok Sabha having won 23 seats in 2009, all from
UP, will try everything by the book and outside to woo its traditional Muslim
voters, which constitute 18.5 per cent of the State's population, to reap the
rich harvest of the riots like it did after the Babri masjid demolition. The
situation is ripe and it will, perhaps, be its leader 'Maulana' Mulayam Singh's
last shot at fulfilling his ambition of becoming the prime minister. But as they
say, 'if you sow the wind, you shall reap the whirlwind.' The Muslims are
apparently not pleased by the SP government as the scars of the sectarian
violence run deep. Many still suffer in rehabilitation camps, trying to overcome
their trauma, both physical and mental, as they recall their harrowing days when
western UP burnt and the Akhilesh Yadav government slept. The SP's other vote
bank, the Yadavs, constituting 8.7 per cent, however, is intact. But the party
will have to solicit the support of other backward castes (OBCs), the largest
group with 27.5 per cent vote share, to increase its seat tally to become king
or kingmaker.

The Congress is trying to win back its Muslim support from the SP with its
leader Rahul Gandhi visiting rehabilitation camps in order to put balm on the
wounds of the minority community. The party will definitely give more
nominations to Muslims this time to increase its kitty of 21 seats won in 2009.
How soothing will be the balm is not difficult to guess. The party, however, has
tried to hedge its bets by deciding to give OBC quota to the Jats, the other
affected group in the riots who can tilt the balance in nine districts of
western Uttar Pradesh. It also has in its fold rebel SP leader Beni Prasad Verma
to lure the Kurmis, who make up 10 per cent of the OBCs, and grab their support
in the State's eastern belt.

Perhaps the two parties that could reap the benefits of the Muslim-Jat divide
are the BJP and the BSP. Polarisation may see the consolidation of Hindu votes
for the BJP with the Jats moving from Ajit Singh's RLD to the saffron party. The
RLD, which won 5 seats last time, may come a cropper this time round. And with
Narendra Modi, the most polarizing force in the country, at the helm of the
BJP's campaign, the party, which got 10 seats in 2009 while losing 11 by a
margin of less than 50,000 votes, may end up with its best showing.

Mayawati, the Dalit leader of the BSP, who is good at social re-engineering, is
very likely to nominate good number of candidates from the upper castes, the
OBCs and the Muslim community, and improve her party's tally from 20 seats won
in 2009. Religion, of course, will play an important role this time, but in the
Hindi heartland people don't cast their vote; they vote their caste. The other
States of North India where religion could be a decisive factor are Delhi and
Punjab.

Rahul Gandhi's recent television interview, in which he refused to apologise for
the 1984 Delhi anti-Sikh riots and indirectly 'admitted' the involvement of some
Congress leaders in the worst massacre since the Partition, has in all
probability dented the party's electoral prospects in these two States.

The one to take immediate advantage of Rahul's political bloomer was Arvind
Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAM), the new star on the horizon. It wasted no time
in ordering an SIT probe into the 1984 riots, one of the main demands of the
Sikhs since the past 30 years. It has also fielded former journalist Jairnail
Singh, who had in 2009 hurled a shoe at then Home Minister P Chidambaram to
convey the entire community's anger against the Congress, from West Delhi where
a large number of Sikh riot victims reside in Tilak Nagar. The party has also
given ticket to H S Phoolka, an eminent lawyer who fought the 1984 riot cases,
to contest from Ludhiana, Punjab. AAP, which ruled for 49 days in Delhi after a
commendable debut in the recent Assembly elections, prying on desire of the
youths and the middle class for a corruption-free India, is very likely to turn
the tables this time too on the Congress which had won all the 7 Lok Sabha seats
from the national capital in 2009.

To take electoral leeway from Rahul's blooper will also be the Badals and the
Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, which is contesting 10 of the 13 seats
along with its alliance partner BJP. The Congress, which bagged eight seats last
time, may well this time concede most of these to SAD, which won 4 seats last
time.

Corruption would be a big issue in Haryana where Robert vadra, Congress
president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law, is accused in a land deal while the party's
State Chief Parliamentary Secretary is facing corruption charges. Kejriwal will
certainly try to encash on it by fielding candidates in the State which had sent
nine Congress members to the Lok Sabha last time. The BJP will hope to gain an
upper hand through a pact Kuldeep Bishnoi's Haryana Janhit Congress. Rajasthan
seems to be a clear-cut case: He who wins the Assembly polls wins the Lok Sabha
elections. With the BJP winning a landslide in recent Assembly polls, the party
is most likely to reverse last time's tally of Congress 20 and BJP 4 seats. But
who knows the Jats may turn out to be Congress' guardian angels.

Himachal Pradesh could see the repeat of 2009 election results, with the BJP
winning three seats and Congress one, as Congress CM Virbhadra Singh is facing a
plethora of corruption charges.

In Uttarakhand, the Congress has replaced its 'inefficient' chief minister, and
with the announcement of one rank, one pension for army men in the Union Budget,
it is aiming to retain all the five seats won last time. He who wins the Hindi
heartland wins the heart of India.

-[IFS]

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Times (India)

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Bhagalpur riots: 25 years on - II

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: Jammu


Jammu, Oct. 30 -- The 25th anniversary of Bhagalpur communal riot has arrived at
a time of triumph for the very same communal fascist forces who have engineered
large-scale political riots in pre as well post-independence India and have now
installed themselves in political power at the centre as well as many of the
Indian States through the very process of parliamentary democracy that the
secularists have always lauded as the most fair and just in the entire world.
The so-called secular forces have been thoroughly defeated and decimated in the
recent Indian Elections.

These so-called secular forces are not likely to learn any lessons from this
defeat and are likely to continue with the same discredited politics of status
quo.

Tasks before the secular and democratic forces

However, for the genuine secular democratic and revolutionary forces this is
certainly a time for reflection and a time to rethink their entire perspective
on secularism. Those who have considered themselves as secularists and
democratic have always believed that there is nothing wrong basically with the
existing economic and political system in India, although it needs some reforms
to make it perfect. They also believe that the administration, the police, the
armed forces and the judiciary are the true guardians of secularism and
democracy, although some politicians and a few people in the administration,
police, army and judiciary are communal as well as corrupt. If only the corrupt
inefficient communal people running the police and administration are replaced
with honest secular people and some reforms are introduced to make them more
efficient, everything would be alright and India would become a paradise of
secularism. However if we think hard we would come to realize that establishing
a truly secular and human society is not as simple as that.

On this occasion of 25th anniversary of Bhagalpur communal pogrom which is an
extremely painful event in the history of India, the questions we should ponder
over are

(1) How the communal, fascist, rightwing Hindu nationalist forces could install
themselves at the helm of power, if the basic fabric of our society is really
secular as claimed by the "secularists".

(2)Are the political parties who claim themselves to be secular really so? Is it
possible for any political party to remain secular in the arena of the existing
parliamentary democracy where money, religion, caste and community play the most
crucial role? What kind of democratic system do we need for the establishment of
a truly secular and human society?

(3) Can "Sarva Dharma Samabhav" based on encouraging religious fundamentalism,
bigotry and irrational superstition be the true basis of secularism?

(4)Can we establish a truly secular society, keeping intact the existing
economic system based on exploitation of working class, women and people of
lower castes---a system whose only motto is accumulation of more and more
capital and profit for more and more exploitation of the oppressed and the weak?

(5)Are only communal elements in police and administration responsible for the
riots and communal pogroms against Muslims and other minorities, or is it a
deeply communalized society at all levels which is responsible for the recurrent
occurrence o these riots? If our society and the masses are afflicted with the
disease of communalism, casteism and hostility towards women how do we to
address this reality in order to establish a truly secular society?

These questions need to be taken up seriously on this occasion in our discourses
on secularism. If we continue to hold on to our naive beliefs about the existing
economic, social and political system as an ideal for establishing secularism
and do not think and act deeply on how to bring about a truly secular,
democratic society free from economic exploitation, caste-ism, communalism and
based on true equality between men and women; then we are doomed to a grand
failure and in that scenario no one can stop the onward march of the fascist,
communal, Hindu nationalist forces to establish a dictatorial regime in which
all the questions of human freedom would recede into the background.

The choice is ours! Let's take a conscious decision on our course of action on
this occasion of 25th anniversary of Bhagalpur communal riots.

-(Concluded)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Kashmir Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Wirral Globe

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Time to nominate Wirral's Young Heroes

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


NOMINATIONS are now being taken for this year's Wirral Young Heroes awards.

The winners will be announced during an Oscars-style awards event on June 27 at
The Floral Pavilion in New Brighton.

Set up in 2011, they were founded by local charity Wirral Youth for Christ (YFC)
as a grassroots response to the riots that rocked the whole nation.

In the summer of that year, YFC took a group of 'young heroes' on a humanitarian
mission to central India.

The small group of young people raised over £15,000 to make the trip possible
and sourced 1000s of crayons, colouring books and modelling balloons to give the
poverty stricken children they met.

Martin Dickson, founder of the Youth Heroes Awards, said: "The riots were
reported in India as a major youth uprising and it seemed that many people here
in the UK felt this way too.

"A selfish, careless and hopelessly self-centred section of society that are a
burden!

"Clearly though, there was a disparity between this view of young people and
those that I knew; I felt compelled to act."

He added: "The riots may have shown us that there's a problem with youth
disorder, but it's only a small part of that picture.

"Wirral is home to thousands of young heroes and we set out to find the most
inspirational of them.

"Our aim was to give our communities an opportunity to publicly thank and affirm
their young heroes for all that they do, and to highlight them as a small
glimpse of the massive majority of young people in the Wirral."

Community groups, teachers, parents and many others who work with youth are
encouraged to nominate their young heroes for the 2014 awards.

This year's categories include:

The arts Academic achievement  Care for others  Courage and bravery  Enterprise
and fundraising The environment  Response to illness or disability
Inspirational adult  Sports  Volunteering

For more details on nominating and sponsorship options visit
http://wirral.youthheroes.org.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                            March 23, 2002, Saturday

A silver lining in Gujarat state's riots

LENGTH: 702 words


By RAMESH THAKUR Special to The Japan Times The death of around 800 people in
the recent riots in Gujarat state was a sobering reminder of the primeval
passions and tribal savagery that can be unleashed so ferociously at a moment's
notice in India. They were an antidote to the unbridled optimism that saw only
an emerging information-technology powerhouse and a modern, democratic and
secular state finally taking its rightful place in the family of nations.

The mask of sophistication had slipped to show the ugly face of Hindu India. Yet
there was a silver lining.

The initial provocation was the death of over 50 Hindu pilgrims returning from
their latest affront to Muslim sensibilities in Ayodhya, the legendary seat of
the Hindu god Rama. At a train station in Gujarat they were locked in their
carriages and burned to death by a large group of Muslims.

As news of the atrocity spread like wildfire, Hindu mobs repaid Muslims in
Gujarat in kind. The horrific nature of the killings shocked a country that saw
its fair share of savagery and brutality in the 20th century.

Against this, there were six positive aspects that yet give some hope for the
future of this tragedy-scarred country.

First, most of the prominent Muslim religious and political leaders of the
country condemned the killings of the Hindu activists. The subsequent
retaliatory attacks on the Muslims were condemned with equal force and passion
by Hindu religious and political leaders across the spectrum of political
parties. Such immediate, unequivocal and forceful condemnations are as rare as
they are welcome. The prime minister expressed his anguish by saying that
Indians must hang their heads in shame, for what face could they now present to
the outside world?

Second, the riots were essentially localized in one state. A decade ago, an
incident involving the death of a large group of Hindus at the hands of Muslims
would have seen the whole country go up in flames as rampaging Hindu mobs
wreaked vengeance on Muslims. The death toll of under 800 is less than half that
of the riots that lasted from December 1992 to January 1993, in which over 2,000
people were killed.

Third, the fact that the last major Hindu-Muslim riots took place a decade ago
is a sign of progress, given that they have been so commonplace in India since
independence. The shock in India that greeted the Gujarat violence is an
affirmation of progress made; the riots were an atavistic regression, not the
continuation of an inexorable trend.

Fourth, even in the state of Gujarat, there were examples of Hindu families
sheltering Muslim neighbors and shielding them from the marauding mobs. Maybe
not many families did so, but more did than was reported by the press, which was
preoccupied with the bigger picture of the killings taking place.

Fifth, the democratic process means that the state and federal governments have
been called to account. The press was uniformly hostile to the state government
of Gujarat and the federal government in New Delhi. The opposition parties, led
by Sonia Gandhi - a Roman Catholic from Italy, no less - have criticized the
state and federal Bharatiya Janata Party governments for their failures. Voters
will almost certainly punish the BJP in the next round of elections in Gujarat,
and perhaps also nationally, for criminal negligence.

Finally, democratic government also implies the supremacy of the rule of law and
the role of the judiciary in mediating relations between the government and the
people and acting as the final arbiter in ethnic conflicts. Since the riots,
India's Supreme Court has ruled that Hindu militants may not perform their
prayers at the disputed site in Ayodhya. The Hindu identity of the judges was
irrelevant in their deliberations and verdict (as is mine in the writing of this
article).

Of course, none of this is to deny or diminish the horror of the riots, dilute
their gravity or excuse the perpetrators. But the grimmer the news, the more
urgent the need for glimmers of hope in order to hang on to one's sanity and
belief in our common humanity.

Ramesh Thakur is the vice rector of the United Nations University in Tokyo.
These are his personal views.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 The Japan Times Ltd.


                              172 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday
                                Kolkata Edition

Mayawati Fires Riots Salvo at Modi

BYLINE: OUR POLITICAL BUREAU KOLKATA

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 243 words


Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati
claimed on Monday that India would have riots one after another if Narendra Modi
comes to power in Delhi."The man who was responsible for the Godhra riots is
aspiring to be the country's prime minister.The country will be in great trouble
if,even by mistake,this man comes to power," Mayawati told BSP activists while
launching the poll campaign at the city's Sahid Minar ground.The BSP will
contest a number of Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal this time.She also expressed
doubts over Modi's assurance to bring radical changes in the country once he
comes to power."This man claims that he will change India if he comes to
power.But I want to ask him,why didn't the BJP change the country's fate when it
was in power for six years." Mayawati also criticised both the CPM and the
Trinamool Congress and said that both had neglected the welfare of the
downtrodden and backward classes.She also complained that the CPM-led Left Front
government had failed to check Maoist movement in the state that has claimed
hundreds of poor people.Criticising the Akhliesh Yadavled Samajwadi Party (SP)
government in Uttar Pradesh over communal flare-ups,she said: "The BSP was in
power for four terms in Uttar Pradesh,but there were never any communal
tensions.Unfortunately,the same cannot be said about the current regime.Riots
are frequent and criminals are roaming scot free,running the show."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Vaghela: Go Ahead With Your Promises,Narendrabhai!

BYLINE: OUR POLITICAL BUREAU NEW DELHI

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 341 words



HIGHLIGHT: Says BJP has majority to implement its controversial plans


G u j a r at O p p o s i t i o n l e a d e r Shankarsinh Vaghela bid farewell to
his friend-turned-rival Narendra Modi in the legislative assembly with a mixture
of affection and a few sly political points on Wednesday.Vaghela,a former RSS
man who broke away from BJP to float his own party and later to join
Congress,has often been pitted against Modi,with whom he used to ride pillion on
his motorcycle.His speech today was a sweet and sour mix of humour and
ribbing.Referring to the fact that past BJP government's at the Centre have
often cited coalition dharma for their failure to build a Ram Temple in
Ayodhya,apply a Uniform Civil Code and ban export of beef,Vaghela said that
Prime Minister Narendra Modi need have no fear of obstacles."Cows are killed in
Gujarat.Everyday vehicles with beef get caught.The vehicle and the people caught
with beef should be charged under Section 302,such strong acts as no one can now
say that the laws of the Centre or those of the state are weak," he said."See
that the Ram Temple is built within the constitutional framework,and that the
uniform civil code is established.Black money may it be in Dubai or
Switzerland,appoint Baba Ramdev as the ambassador.Baba will get money from
anywhere," he added."Now raise the height of the Narmada dam,so that water
reaches the farmers," he added for good measure.BJP leaders in Delhi were a
little nonplussed at this sly attack on their majority in Parliament,and their
party's stated agenda on these issues."I can just say that he was being
clever.He used whatever opportunity he got to get his points in,we don't have to
respond," said one party leader.Vaghela made it a point to mention Godhra,though
not in the context of the riots."India got two Prime Ministers via
Godhra.Morarji Desai used to be the deputy collector there in 1929 as an ICS
officer.There was riot and he was transferred as there were allegations of
partiality on him.He left the job in 1930 and joined Gandhiji.Before becoming
the chief minister,Modi was pracharak in Godhra and Vadodara."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                              July 4, 2014 Friday
                                 Mumbai Edition

India Fears Growth of Fundamentalism in Sri Lanka After Riots

BYLINE: DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 382 words


Security experts have expressed serious concerns over the recent riots in Sri
Lanka, and have stressed the need for Colombo to take steps to control the
situation, fearing that riots may be exploited by `foreign elements' wanting to
carry out a terror strikes in southern states of India.

Delhi is equally apprehensive the riots may have been encouraged by elements
wanting to create a situation whereby the affected Muslims in Sri Lanka get
marginalised and thereby offer a breeding ground for recruiting terror
operatives. The

matter, which did not get much media coverage in India, is likely to be raised
with Colombo on an urgent basis, an official source told ET.

The fears have got compounded with the recent admission of the Sri Lankan
Foreign Minister GL Peiris about 'foreign instigation' behind the communal riots
and killing in different parts of Sri Lanka. As many as 119 people, including 95
Sinhalese and 24 Muslims, have already been arrested in connection with the
riots by Sri Lankan authorities. Lankan Criminal Investigation Department (CID)
has been grilling the General Secretary of Bodu Bala Sena (BBS) or Army of

Buddhist Forces, Galagoda Atthe Gnanasara, and its National Organiser,
Witharandeniye Nanda, for the riots that have killed several and injured many.

Counter-terrorism experts are uncomfortable with the silence of Jamaat-ud-Dawa
Chief Hafiz Saeed, and see a larger game plan of the ISI/Lashkar to wait and
watch before going on a Jehadi recruitment drive.

Indian security & intelligence agencies need to analyse whether this is yet
another attempt by the former Lashkar-e-Taebbya boss Saeed to use the riots for
religious indoctrination in the island nation and try to encircle India. This
will

further prompt Delhi to move Colombo on the issue, as the aggrieved nationals
could be brainwashed to join extremist groups, an official hinted.

Sri Lanka, on its part, would need to review its bilateral engagement with
Pakistan, to prevent its socio-ethnic fabric, which is yet to heal from the
wounds of the 'LTTE era', to get re-scarred with a possibly more damaging
'Islamic radicalisation'.

The worries of India are not without reason, considering it comes close on heels
of the arrest of Sri Lankan national Mohammed Sakir Husain's who recced India
for terror strikes.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Qadri praised Modi, refused to condemns Muslims' massacre in Gujarat

SECTION: Vol. 18 No. 233

LENGTH: 163  words


Dr Tahir ul Qadri, who has alleged that India will protect the rule of the
Sharif brothers, had once praised Narendra Modi during his visit to India, it
has been revealed.

Indian media had reported that Tahir-ul-Qadri on his first visit to Gujarat in
2012 thanked the chief minister Narendra Modi for the security arrangements
provided to him.

Qadri, known for his strong views against terrorism and extremism, however,
refused to comment on 2002 communal riots, the India media had reported. Qadri
had visited Gujarat to lay foundation stone of India headquarters of
Minhaj-ul-Quran International in Karjan.

"But it is my first visit to Gujarat and special Z-plus security arrangements
have been made by the state. I thank the CM for this," he said while referring
to Modi's hospitality.

On repeated questions about the 2002 communal riots, Qadri insisted he did not
come to Gujarat to speak about specific incidents, but termed them as
unfortunate, the Indian media had reported.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                           September 27, 2015 Sunday

India clamping down on critics of Modi, activist groups

LENGTH: 1032  words


It takes courage to accuse a powerful politician g a man who would go on to
become India's prime minister g of encouraging riots against a minority.

Police officer Sanjiv Bhatt did just that. And he says he is paying the price
for it.

Bhatt was arrested months after he filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in
2011, alleging that Narendra Modi incited anti-Muslim violence that killed more
than 1,000 people in the western state of Gujarat.

At the time, Modi was the chief minister of the state, and Bhatt was an officer
of the police intelligence.

Then, earlier this year, Bhatt was fired after 27 years on the job for taking
more leave than he was allowed.

His dismissal comes amid the stiffest crackdown in decades on critics and
activist and aid groups perceived to be undermining India's image and interests.

Since Modi took office last year, more than 9,000 humanitarian and human rights
groups have lost their registration to receive foreign funding, effectively
shutting many down, and dozens of activists have been threatened with arrest.

Governments in general don't like criticism," said Teesta Setalvad, an activist
fighting for the survivors and victims of the Gujarat riots who has been
repeatedly harassed by authorities. This particular government, from all its
actions it is clear, is especially intolerant of any criticism."

Setalvad, a vocal Modi critic, had her home and office raided in July by
investigators searching for evidence of embezzlement, and one prosecutor has
called for her arrest, describing her as a threat to national security.

The government denies efforts to silence dissent.

Nalin Kohli, a spokesman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, says that cases
such as Bhatt's are for the courts to decide. But the government has made clear
it views aid organisations, particularly foreign ones, with deep suspicion.

Authorities started imposing restrictions after a government intelligence report
last year said that local activists were working on the orders of foreign powers
to undermine India's economic growth.

The report said India lost up to 3 per cent of GDP when groups like Greenpeace
rallied communities against polluting industries.

Greenpeace India said its bank account has been frozen for months, and in
January one of its activists was barred from boarding a flight to London, where
she was to tell British lawmakers about a coal mining project in India, after
she was told she was on a list of people not allowed to leave the country.

Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said the government's restrictions on humanitarian
groups and their donor-driven activism" were merely to hold them accountable.

That has had a chilling effect.

Three humanitarian groups interviewed by The Associated Press refused to speak
about the crackdown on the record for fear of government reprisals. All three
said their projects, ranging from health to women's empowerment, are being
closely scrutinised by authorities and negative publicity could jeopardise them.

Any kind of organised or institutional protest or criticism is clearly under
greater threat under this government. There's no doubt about that," said Mukul
Kesavan, a historian at New Delhi's Jamia Millia Islamia University.

Modi, however, enjoys wide support among Indians. He led his party's landslide
victory in general elections in 2014, and has an almost cult-like status in the
country.

Most of his supporters do not see the crackdown against the critics as a
problem, and many are supportive.

Part of Modi's persona, and that of his party, is built around Hindu
nationalism, which appeals to fundamentalists and radicals.

Modi's election encouraged and gave voice to such groups, who until then had
remained on the fringes of politics in the largely secular country. Today, few
people among his supporters are willing to believe that Modi was complicit in
the 2002 riots, citing the fact that no court has found him culpable.

Bhatt, however, says he has no doubts about Modi's involvement.

2002 riots:

Bhatt was an officer with the intelligence bureau in the western state of
Gujarat in 2002 when a train filled with Hindu pilgrims was attacked by a Muslim
mob in a small town.

A fire erupted under mysterious circumstances and 60 Hindus burned to death. In
retaliation, Muslims were attacked across the state, and more than 1,100 people
g mostly Muslims g were killed in ensuing riots.

As investigations into the violence dragged on for years, Bhatt felt compelled
in 2011 to go to India's Supreme Court. He submitted a sworn affidavit saying
that shortly after the train fire, Modi told a meeting of top police officers
and administrators that Muslims needed to be taught a lesson" and the state's
Hindus needed to be allowed to vent out their anger".

Modi has never directly addressed Bhatt's claims and no evidence directly links
him to the violence. He has dismissed all allegations that he or his government
had any role in the riots, and he has not been charged with any crime.

Bhatt, a Hindu, says the violence changed everything I stood for until then".

I've seen riots before. Two sides fighting each other," he said. 2002 was
different. The police and the state connived in the destruction of Muslim life
and property."

Modi's supporters reject Bhatt's claims, saying that it's just his word against
the prime minister's. They deride him as a front for the political opposition,
noting his wife once ran for election representing the opposition Congress
party.

Five months after he went to the Supreme Court, Bhatt was arrested for
fabricating evidence.

His arrest came after a policeman who assisted Bhatt recanted testimony that
Bhatt had been present at the 2002 meeting of government officials. Bhatt, who
was freed on bail 17 days later, says the policeman recanted under government
pressure. The case against him has been put on hold by the Supreme Court.

Bhatt acknowledges that he did take extended leaves of absence to appear before
government commissions investigating the riots and his allegations and for court
appearances, but says that dismissing him on those grounds is politics.

He says the threats and firing haven't surprised him. That's just the kind of
person he is," he said, referring to Modi.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                              June 17, 2016 Friday

2002 Gujarat riots: India sentences 11 to life in prison after 14 years

LENGTH: 193  words


A court in India has sentenced 11 people to life in prison for their roles in a
notorious massacre during the 2002 anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat.Of the 24 people
convicted for the Gulberg Society killings, 12 were jailed for seven years while
one man was sentenced to 10 years.

The special court in Ahmedabad called the incident the "darkest day in the
history of civil society".During the attack on February 28, 2002, 69 people were
hacked and burned to death by a mob.

More than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died in the riots, sparked by a fire on
a train in Godhra that killed 60 Hindu pilgrims.Critics of Prime Minister
Narendra Modi, who was the state chief minister at the time, say he did little
to stop the riots.

However, Zakia Jafri, the wife of Ehsan Jafri, a prominent Muslim politician and
a former Congress party MP, who was among those killed, has expressed
disappointment at the sentencing."I was there when Ehsaan Jafri was killed, it's
not justice at all," she told reporters.

Survivors of the Gulberg massacre say he fired his gun in self-defence as the
mob attacked the complex.Mrs Jafri says her husband called Mr Modi for help but
it never came.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2013 Monday
                                Regional Edition

In wake of India riots, a bill gains momentum

BYLINE: Rama Lakshmi

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1176 words

DATELINE: LOI, INDIA


Indians push to tame Hindu-Muslim rioting with new bill        Can a law stop
Hindu-Muslim rioting? India considers giving it a try. Incidents of religious
violence are on the rise, and many fear divisions will deepen with elections
next year.

LOI, India - Sabra Rashid fled her village three months ago, as Hindu mobs
started attacking their Muslim neighbors. With nowhere to return after her home
was looted and burned, she is living in a tent camp with thousands of other
Muslims.

One night this month, the youngest of her four children, 9-month-old Sufian, who
had been shivering in the cold, suddenly went still. He was dead.

"My heart cannot bear this anymore. It will explode," said Rashid, 32, fighting
back tears as she ran her fingers over the image of her son's face on a
cellphone - the only photograph of him her family still has. "As a mother, all I
want is a safe home for my other children, to stay healthy, to stay alive. Is
that too much to ask?"

Rashid was one of 50,000 people forced from their villages in and around the
Muzaffarnagar district of northern Uttar Pradesh state during the September
rioting. In its wake, there is new momentum to pass a long-discussed bill aimed
at curbing religious and ethnic violence.

Tensions between the majority Hindu population and the Muslim minority go back
centuries. Half a million people died in rioting during the partition of India
in 1947, when Pakistan was created as a Muslim homeland. Although religious
violence has dropped dramatically since then, the number of incidents is ticking
upward of late - from 668 last year to 725 in the first 10 months of this year,
causing 143 deaths, official data show. And many Indians are concerned that
divisions between religious groups could deepen with the national elections
scheduled for next year, especially because the main opposition party is led by
a controversial Hindu nationalist, Narendra Modi.

"Each government has dealt with communal rioting in a completely arbitrary and
prejudicial manner," said Farah Naqvi, a member of the National Advisory
Council, a government-appointed group of academics and activists, some of whom
have worked on the bill. "Hundreds of thousands of people who have been
permanently displaced by rioting are not even counted and recognized by the
government. And those who incite riots from behind the scene are rarely brought
to justice. It is unconscionable if the new, 21st-century India continues to
look the other way."

The bill, yet to be introduced, would put in place policies to prevent and limit
communal and ethnic rioting. It would establish fines and jail sentences for
public officials and police officers for failure to control violence. It would
also guarantee speedy investigations and trials in special courts, and it would
set guidelines for reparation for victims.

The legislation has been in the works since riots in Gujarat state in 2002 left
more than 1,000 people dead, most of them Muslims. The measure could finally
pass in the coming year, because it is being supported by the Congress-party-led
governing coalition.

The bill has been strongly criticized by Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, the main
opposition party, which has called it a maneuver to garner the votes of
religious minorities. In a recent letter to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Modi
called the measure a "recipe for disaster," saying it would lead to ordinary
fights being labeled as communal violence.

Modi is accused by human rights groups of not doing enough to stem the 2002
riots in Gujarat, his home state.

Broken trust

The recent Hindu-Muslim rioting in Muzaffarnagar, the worst such violence in
India in more than a decade, was sparked by an incident in which a Muslim youth
was killed by two Hindus after he was alleged to have sexually harassed their
female cousin. This set off a cycle of reprisal attacks across the district.

Sixty-five people were killed, more than two-thirds of them Muslim. Members of
the Bharatiya Janata Party were accused of trying to stoke passions during the
riots by spreading fake photos and videos of killings via the popular chat
application WhatsApp. But the Hindu nationalist party wasn't the only one
accused of fanning the flames: A Muslim leader from the Bahujan Samaj Party was
alleged to have given inflammatory speeches during the melee.

More than 6,000 Muslims who fled the violence still languish in tent camps a few
miles from the Hindu-majority villages.

In one camp in the village of Loi, large families huddle in informal tents made
of old shawls, glittery veils and sheets stitched together. Barefoot children
shiver in the cold and eat fly-infested food. There are not enough toilets.
About 11 children have died in the camp because of unhygienic conditions and the
cold, villagers say. Officials dispute the figure.

Shahnawaz Islam, a 35-year-old brick-kiln worker, recalled how his father's
bleeding body was dumped in the courtyard of his home by a Hindu mob during the
riots. "How can we even think of returning to the village where our neighbors
turned on us?" he said.

Although he has received financial compensation from the government for his
father's death, he said, he will not feel justice is done until the killers are
detained.

In Islam's village, Phugana, Hindu farmers said Muslims were free to return but
added that the trust between the two communities was broken. Before the rioting,
the two groups lived cheek-by-jowl in narrow lanes, and Muslims worked in
sugar-cane farms and brick kilns owned by Hindus. Muslims owned businesses
making jaggery, a sweetener made out of sugar cane.

Some Hindus said the Muslims had leveled false charges against them.

"We did not harm them. The Muslims want money from the government; that is why
they burned their homes and mosques," said Tham Singh, who is accused in 20
complaints to police - including about murder and rape - but has not been
arrested.

Post-riots life

After the riots, about 6,400 people were named in police complaints in
connection with killings, rapes, looting, arson and inciting riots. But police
have arrested only 200 people.

"We have gone out to arrest the men at least 10 times, but the women came out
armed with axes and sickles and blocked our entry into the villages. They pile
bricks and stones on the dirt paths to stop our vehicles. They surround the
villages with tractors," said Kaushal Raj Sharma, the district magistrate in
Muzaffarnagar.

Activists say that after each riot in India, diverse neighborhoods have shrunk
in population as residents have moved to areas where people of their own faith
and ethnicity live.

"That produces its own kind of polarized politics, something a developing
country cannot afford," said Naqvi, of the National Advisory Council.

Although activists have high hopes for the proposed law, some Muslims said it
may not change much on the ground.

"We have enough laws in this country; what we need is people who have the will
and the heart to implement the laws," said Abdul Jabbar, a real estate agent who
runs the camp in Loi.

rama.lakshmi@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                  APM Edition

NGO suggests training for lawmen to interact better with foreign workers

BYLINE: Amanda Lee

SECTION: SGC; Singapore; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 662 words


SINGAPORE - People who have to interact with foreign workers as part of their
work should be trained to understand and communicate with them better.

This was a suggestion by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Transient Workers
Count Too (TWC2) President Russell Heng when he testified yesterday at the
Committee of Inquiry hearing on the riot in Little India last December.

His group, which seeks to improve conditions for low-wage migrant workers, had
submitted a report to the COI. The report made recommendations to, among other
things, improve transport in Little India and communications between law
enforcement officers and foreign workers.

"Communication and cultural awareness are key to fostering better relationship
between workers and authorities," it said. "The police (or) auxiliary police
(officers) in the Little India area need to be able to communicate better with
the workers. To do that, they should be trained such that they do not  see
themselves as only 'policing' the area."

Over the past few weeks, the COI heard testimonies from witnesses such as police
officers citing the language barrier with the foreign workers as one of the
difficulties that they faced during the Little India riot.

During the hearing, Dr Heng also cited bus drivers and conductors as those who
can be trained on cultural awareness, language awareness and appreciation of the
role of migrant workers here.  "By language awareness, we are not asking that
everybody should (be) fluent in Bengali or Tamil ... but an ability to interact
using simple English, sign language ... or learning how to smile," said Dr Heng.
"The police should be seen by the foreign workers ... as sources of
information".

In response to COI Chairman G Pannir Selvam's queries, Dr Heng said his
organisation did not feel competent to address factors and circumstances that
led to the riot as its members were not at the scene that evening. Nevertheless,
he noted that a riot is a complex incident. "Therefore, it cannot be shrunk to
one factor (such as) alcohol ... A more holistic understanding of the incident
would be necessary," said Dr Heng.

Meanwhile, two foreign workers, who were in the Little India area on the night
of the riot took the stand yesterday. While they did not witness the riot
first-hand, they cited drunkenness as a contributory factor behind the riot.

One of them, Mr Karuppaiah Sankar, said: "This was not a pre-planned event. It
occurred because a fellow countryman was killed. The crowd was angry and drunk
and they reacted violently."

Mr Rintu Chakravarthy, a representative of Lum Chang Building Contractors, which
employs about 600 foreign workers, told the committee that the riot was
"possibly due to (a) mob reaction, which is quite common in India (and)
Bangladesh, to a fellow worker's accidental death".

Mr Chakravarthy, a Singapore citizen who was born in India, said riots could
happen in the streets of those countries when, for example, a car is hit by a
bus. A mob would attack the bus, he said. "It is the law of the underdog, what
the common man in the street perceives or sees," he added.

The COI also heard from Tekka Residents' Committee Chairman Pereira C Martin,
who said he found the measures implemented after the riot to be effective.

"I think that the alcohol restriction should be made permanent by legislation.
There is a very noticeable difference in the general situation after the riot
... Even though the foreign workers still congregate, they are unable to consume
alcohol and are less rowdy," he said.

Mr Seet Hing Long, a Little India resident who lives at Chander Road, testified
that although the number of foreign workers congregating in Little India went
down during the first two weeks after the riot, the number has since rebounded.

With the last bus on weekends and public holidays for foreign workers departing
for their dormitories earlier, he said the move has resulted in crowds forming
at the Little India MRT Station after 9pm.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                                  APM Edition

Rights group urges value system of open approach towards foreign workers

BYLINE: Amanda Lee

SECTION: SGC; Singapore; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 549 words


SINGAPORE - There is a need to develop a healthy, open approach towards foreign
workers in Singapore and this has to come from a value system that should be
nurtured in schools.

This was a recommendation put forward by Ms Braema Mathi, President of human
rights group MARUAH, when she testified yesterday at the Committee of Inquiry
(COI) hearing into the Little India riot. "We cannot be fluctuating from a
moment of dehumanising them and then suddenly we humanise the person. It has to
be consistently borne from a value system," she said.

While workers' rights have improved over the past three decades, Ms Braema felt
more public education could be conducted in schools. "We (are) talking about
guest workers, how we treat them. I think this is going to be the biggest area
for us to work on," she said.

The group had submitted a report to the inquiry, where it argued that the
eco-system in which foreign workers operate in Singapore - both in terms of
workplace conditions and the social interaction they have with Singaporeans and
other communities here - should be examined in greater detail so as to
understand the cause behind the Little India riot on Dec 8.

Ms Braema said there should be language skills for those, such as frontline
police officers, who engage with foreign workers. "The guys in uniform are the
most important folks, the most neutral folks in helping us bridge the gap
because they are the ones walking the streets every day," she added.

Five Little India residents who testified during the inquiry hearing yesterday
felt the measures implemented in the aftermath of the riot have been effective
in restoring calm to the area, though some observed that the crowd appeared to
be returning to the size it was before the riot.

Mr Junaidi Lim, who lives at Chander Road said: "The only difference now is that
there is no alcohol consumption. I believe the most important measure is the
restriction on the sale and consumption of alcohol."

However, Ms Tan Huilinn, who also lives at Buffalo Road, was against the alcohol
ban. "I feel Little India has lost its charm and vibrancy as a result and fewer
people visit the area, making it less lively," she told the inquiry.

When State Counsel Tan Soo Tet asked Ms Tan to elaborate, the witness said the
Thaipusam festival in January was quieter, compared with last year's
celebration. While she felt the number of alcohol licences should be reduced, Ms
Tan felt the situation is "a forced kind of silence now". "It was nice to see
the workers being able to relax and just sit on the fields and catch up with one
another, and now you don't see any of that, which is kind of sad in my view,"
she added.

Ms Braema had earlier told the inquiry it was too quick to focus on alcohol as
the key element that led to the mayhem. "Alcohol played a role. To what extent,
nobody knows. But it became alcohol; the new law is all about alcohol," said Ms
Braema.

After the riot, the authorities were given enhanced powers in Little India for
12 months, which included a general prohibition on alcohol sale, supply and
consumption in the area, except under specific conditions.

Ms Braema added: "We feel we cannot have a riot take away our value system, and
our value system ... has to go back to the fundamental of building bonds,
repairing damage."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

Modi to be sworn in as India's leader on Monday

SECTION: CENTER

LENGTH: 432 words


NEW DELHI - India's Hindu nationalist party formally chose Narendra Modi as the
country's next prime minister on Tuesday, just days after its resounding victory
in national elections.

President Pranab Mukherjee set next Monday as the date of Modi's swearing-in
ceremony.

"Congratulations," Mukherjee said as he greeted Modi with a bouquet of flowers
in the president's palace.

Earlier Tuesday, Modi bent and kissed the steps of India's Parliament, where he
met the newly elected lawmakers of his Bharatiya Janata Party. Lal Krishna
Advani, the most senior party leader, nominated Modi for the prime minister's
post, and the lawmakers gave their approval by thumping their desks and chanting
slogans.

BJP President Rajnath Singh called the occasion historic, because it was the
first time that an opposition party won a majority on its own in India's
543-seat Lok Sabha - the more powerful lower house of Parliament.

The BJP won 282 seats, far more than most analysts had predicted, and the
incumbent Congress party just 44 seats.

Modi said in a speech that the people of India had given him a large
responsibility to meet their aspirations and hopes. "I am dedicating my election
to the uplift of the poor, youth and women," he said.

Modi fought back tears as he thanked his party colleagues and supporters for
their trust.

Modi, 63, worked relentlessly to market himself as the leader most capable of
waking the nation of 1.2 billion from its economic slumber, while trying to
shake off allegations that he looked the other way during communal riots that
killed 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, in his home state of Gujarat in 2002. Modi
has served as the state's top elected official since 2001.

In Washington, Secretary of State John Kerry congratulated Modi and his party on
its "resounding" election victory and said the US stands ready to work with the
new prime minster and government.

US President Barack  has already invited Modi to visit the United States,
offering a fresh start to a relationship bruised by a decision years ago not to
let Modi into the US because of the Gujarat riots.

India is in the midst of rapid socio-economic change. About 13 million young
people are entering the job market each year, but not enough jobs are being
created in an economy that has slowed down to below 5 percent in the last two
years. Prices of food have spiraled, as has unemployment.

The BJP trounced the Congress-led ruling alliance, with Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh's government plagued by repeated  scandals while the party's 43-year-old
vice president, Rahul Gandhi, failed to inspire confidence.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 26, 2008 Wednesday

Nepal minister denies arms import from India, says supplies consist of riot gear

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Kathmandu, 26 March: Amid protests by Maoists over the alleged import of arms
from India, the Nepal government has dismissed the charge, saying New Delhi had
only donated anti-riot gear to the Himalayan country ahead of the polls.

"We have not imported arms from India recently.... The Maoists hyped the normal
issue when the government had just imported some logistics related to
controlling riots from India," Minister for Peace and Reconstruction Ram Chandra
Poudal said.

The Maoists torched two police posts at Golpark and Chauraha and a jeep at
Kalikanagar in Butawal on Monday to protest against the alleged supply of
weapons by India.

They blocked roads in Kathmandu yesterday for an hour and claimed the imported
weapons were being brought to the capital. They also claimed to have seized two
weapon-loaded trucks.

However, Nepal Police said the trucks contained riot controlling equipment
donated by India ahead of the April 10 Constituent Assembly polls as per an
agreement.

The consignment include tear gas shells, riot gear, communication equipments and
helmets meant for maintaining security during election, police spokesman Sushil
Barsingh Thapa said.

India too has clarified that it has supplied riot gear to Nepal on the request
of its government.

"The supplies consist of items requested by the Armed Police Force in the
context of their responsibility for augmenting security for the forthcoming
constituent assembly polls," an Indian Embassy staffer said.

Nepali Congress has condemned the Maoist actions saying it will only create
disturbance and help elements who want to disrupt the poll.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1153gmt 26 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                             Sydney MX (Australia)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                1 - SYD Edition

Hot Poms running riot INDIA STRUGGLES

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 196 words


England bowler Tim Bresnan put India to the sword in the first day of the third
Test at Edgbaston then admitted it was nice to ``give something positive back''
following the rioting that has spread to Birmingham.

The Yorkshire seamer took 4-62 and Stuart Broad claimed 4-53 as India was rolled
for 224.

Only Indian captain M.S. Dhoni (77) offered resistance. His team has yet to
reach 300 runs in an innings this series.

England, already 2-0 up in the four-match series and one win away from replacing
India as the No.1 Test side, then sealed a fine day by closing on 84 without
loss. Captain Andrew Strauss was 52 not out, his best Test score of the season,
and fellow opener Alastair Cook unbeaten on 27.

Birmingham has been one of the worst-hit cities following five days of rioting,
and Bresnan said: ``It would be nice to win and just give something positive
back to England.''

But Indian legend Sunil Gavaskar took a swipe at England, claiming they'd have
``hit the panic button'' if riots had taken place while the team was touring his
country.

The 125-Test veteran and BBC commentator said: ``They would have been talking in
terms of the team returning home. That is a given.''

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MXS


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

No evidence riot reflects workers' unhappiness: PM;
Little India goes quiet as weekend alcohol ban kicks in; interim rules likely
this week

BYLINE: Fiona Chan Senior Economics Correspondent In Tokyo

SECTION: NEWS; Home

LENGTH: 578 words


There is no reason to believe that last Sunday's riot in Little India stemmed
from unhappiness among foreign workers, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said
yesterday.

"We have not seen any evidence of that," he said, when asked about speculation
that pent-up tensions among foreign workers might have been a cause.

The riot was spontaneous and localised, with signs that alcohol was a factor, he
said. It also involved men from many different companies and living in different
places.

"It is unlikely that all the companies will have the same problem," he told
reporters in Tokyo, where he attended a summit marking 40 years of Asean-Japan
relations.

In the aftermath of the riot, Law and Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam visited
foreign workers at their dormitories and spoke with them in the presence of the
media.

"There is no tension, there is no sense of grievance or hardship or injustice,"
Mr Lee said.

About 400 men, mostly of South Asian origin, were involved in the riot after a
traffic accident left a worker dead. So far, 33 men have been charged in court.

A large area around Little India has been declared a no-alcohol zone this
weekend, and private buses that usually ferry foreign workers to and from the
place on their day off will not run today.

The usually bustling area was noticeably quieter yesterday, with an increased,
visible police presence.

Yesterday, the police issued a brief statement in the evening saying it is
illegal to organise or take part in a public assembly without a permit.

"The public is requested to allow the community in Little India the space and
time to recover from the events of last Sunday," it said.

The cooling-off measures this weekend are temporary. Mr Lee said interim rules
to help ensure order and stability in the area are likely to be decided this
week.

The alcohol ban covers 374 establishments over quite a big area, and Mr Lee said
this is because the authorities did not want anything to go wrong this weekend.

"Let's just calm down, cool down, make sure that things are back to normal," he
said.

"After that, we can calibrate, and establish new rules. It will take us some
time to work out what the final rules will be, but I think we should have
interim rules by next week. We'll see how it goes, and then we can adjust as we
go on and work our way forward."

Mr Lee acknowledged the impact on businesses but pointed out that even before
the riot, the authorities were discussing restrictions on the selling and
drinking of alcohol in Little India. Residents had complained about drunken and
disorderly behaviour, including men urinating or vomiting in public and
loitering in void decks and other common areas.

"We have put in more security patrols and auxiliary police. It has helped but I
think we need to tighten up further," he said.

"There are no easy solutions to these things... Now I think we have to call a
time-out... We have to decide what the adjustments to the rules are and then we
have to start planning again, which is what we will do."

As for foreign workers, Mr Lee stressed that Singapore would not tolerate any
ill or unfair treatment of them. "They are people, they are working, they have
families to support and they are here to do a job," he said.

"We have to make sure they are well treated, paid properly and on time, their
safety is taken care of, their living conditions are also up to standard and
that they are also given full protection of the law."

fiochan@sph.com.sg

See Top News

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Bustle returns to Little India, but turnout still muted

BYLINE: Feng Zengkun

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words


LITTLE India's Sunday bustle returned yesterday, three weeks after a violent
riot broke out in the area.

Shopkeepers and foreign workers there said the turnout was bigger than the
previous weekends, but still fell short of the crowds before the Dec 8 riot.

When The Straits Times visited the area in the late afternoon, most of the
workers were gathered on open fields or along roads.

No one could be seen drinking alcohol in the open, given the ban on public
consumption on weekends since the day after the riot.

Sales of both alcohol and other items such as clothes and telephone cards
remained slow yesterday, shopkeepers told The Straits Times.

But they added that this was partly due to the usual end-of-the-month slump,
when workers had already spent most of their salaries.

Mobile phone shop employee Mr Vishan, 29, said: "Before the riot, there were
queues outside, but today, I have had fewer than 10 customers."

A worker from India, 29-year-old Jayachandra Varatharjan, said it would take
more time for the area to recover.

"I am just here to meet friends and buy things. Most of us are like that.
Hopefully, things will return to normal soon," he said.

The riot was sparked by a traffic accident that killed a 33-year-old foreign
worker from India. The mayhem left 39 Home Team officers injured and 25
government vehicles damaged.

It is believed some in the crowd that night were under the influence of alcohol.

A total ban on the sale of alcohol in Little India on weekends was relaxed on
Dec 18, allowing retailers to sell takeaway alcohol within restricted hours.

Sunday private bus services that ferry workers to Little India, which were
suspended in the immediate wake of the riot, resumed on Dec 22, but at half the
capacity.

This was increased by another 5 per cent yesterday, said the Land Transport
Authority, following a review.

zengkun@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

DPM Teo made call to repatriate those involved in riot

BYLINE: Rachel Au-Yong

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words


DEPUTY Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean told Parliament yesterday that he made the
call to repatriate 57 workers involved in last month's Little India riot.

DPM Teo, based on the statutory powers vested in him as Home Affairs Minister,
decided to do so on top of the Attorney-General's Chambers' (AGC) move to issue
stern warnings to the workers.

"Foreign workers must know that if they flout our rules they face repatriation,"
he said in a ministerial statement on the Dec8 riot. "We need to be strict about
this, to maintain the safety and security of our society."

The 57 workers had "knowingly joined or continued to participate in the riot"
despite being ordered to disperse by the police - an offence under the Penal
Code, he added.

In doing so, they impeded riot control and emergency rescue operations.

Foreigners do not have an "inherent legal right to work and stay here", said DPM
Teo, adding that they can do so only with the State's permission.

Human rights activists have taken issue with the workers' "arbitrary"
deportation, claiming they did not have the opportunity to defend themselves in
court.

But the police, DPM Teo told Parliament, had relied on evidence from forensic
examination, video footage, photographs and officer and witness accounts to
determine the culpability of various individuals.

The evidence against each person was reviewed by the AGC before decisions were
made.

Mr Teo also told the House that the authorities had originally arrested and
charged 35 persons, but the charges against 10 were withdrawn after the AGC
reviewed further evidence.

"This shows due process at work," the minister said.

The 57 deported workers' actions also made them "undesirable" and "prohibited"
immigrants under the Immigration Act.

Still, those charged or served with repatriation orders were given full consular
access to the high commissions of India and Bangladesh.

Mr Christopher de Souza (Holland-Bukit Timah GRC) and Nominated MP Laurence Lien
had asked about the investigation process and the basis for the authorities'
action against those involved.

In his speech, DPM Teo also addressed MPs' questions on the Committee of Inquiry
(COI) looking into the riot and the alcohol ban in Little India.

The COI members, he said, are "respected persons with many years of experience
in the fields of law and security".

"They are familiar with worker issues, as well as relations between foreign
workers and the local population," he added.

Seven MPs, including Moulmein-Kallang GRC's Ms Denise Phua, whose ward covers
Little India, asked about liquor licences in Little India, and if the Government
would consider implementing similar measures to restrict the sale and
consumption of alcohol in other parts of Singapore.

Mr Teo said the Ministry of Home Affairs had already started on a comprehensive
review of Singapore's liquor licensing regime before the riot.

The authorities are also reviewing regulations to tighten liquor control at
specific places, for example, where large numbers of foreign workers congregate.

rachelay@sph.com.sg

For DPM Teo's full statement, go to http://bit.ly/1e3fj1D

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

More police powers to secure order in Little India;
Short-term move to help them take calibrated measures, says DPM Teo

BYLINE: Lim Yan Liang

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


DEPUTY Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean yesterday placed before Parliament for
approval a new Bill to give police enhanced powers to pre-empt threats to public
order in Little India.

The proposed law, to last up to one year until longer-term measures can be
enacted, will empower law enforcement officers to control the movement of
persons into Little India and enforce alcohol restrictions.

In a half-hour speech that addressed some of the 36 riot-related questions that
dominated yesterday's Parliament sitting, Mr Teo also said he was confident the
Home Team would learn from the Little India riot and emerge stronger and better
prepared.

"We cannot be crisis-proof... but we can be resilient and we can be
crisis-ready, both the Home Team as well as our population," he said.

The Home Affairs Minister stressed that peace could not be taken for granted.

He said Singapore was able to recover from the effects of the riot quickly
because of the trust built up over the years between the Home Team and the
community.

Acting Manpower Minister Tan Chuan-Jin fielded MPs' questions about the
management of foreign workers. He refuted allegations of widespread mistreatment
of these workers, and said he was puzzled that some had concluded that this was
a cause of the riot.

He said foreign workers had consistently said, in surveys and in dialogues held
after the riot, that they were happy to work in Singapore.

"Many consider Singapore to be an attractive destination country, and many
foreigners at all levels continue to want to come here for work if they have the
chance," he said.

The debate, which lasted about two hours, saw 13 Members of Parliament ask
wide-ranging questions about the riots, from migrant worker issues to guidelines
on alcohol sales.

Besides the new legislation, Mr Teo also gave an update on measures put in place
after the riot to prevent another public order incident.

Additional closed-circuit cameras have been installed in Little India, with the
authorities looking to further expand CCTV coverage in the area, and more street
lighting has been installed in Race Course Road.

The Land Transport Authority has plans to provide waiting areas in Hampshire
Road and Tekka Lane as well as queue-heads and shelters, and to monitor the
operating hours and capacity of bus services for foreign workers to and from
Little India.

Mr Tan said that the Government would provide more dedicated recreation centres
but these would never replace areas like Little India, "which have naturally
evolved over time to cater to foreign workers' physical as well as emotional
needs".

He added that his ministry was working with companies to roster workers' days
off to "spread the load, spread the numbers", while continuing to educate
workers about local norms and laws.

Mr Teo said he was heartened that Singaporeans had responded rationally even
though the riot had unexpectedly disrupted their lives, with many coming forward
to help, and noted that no shots were fired or fatalities suffered in quelling
the riot.

"If we consider what would have happened if we had woken up to headlines the
next morning reporting that the police had opened fire resulting in serious
injuries or fatalities, we would be having a very different kind of discussion
in Parliament today," he said.

yanliang@sph.com.sg

MORE PARLIAMENT REPORTS: TOP OF THE NEWS, SINGAPORE

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              March 7, 2014 Friday

Riot 'not linked to treatment of workers';
No latent frustration or tension among foreign workers, COI told

BYLINE: Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 762 words


HOW foreign workers are treated in Singapore had nothing to do with the sudden
eruption of violence in Little India, said two witnesses who work closely with
the migrant worker community here.

Yet that does not mean these workers have had no grievances, the Committee of
Inquiry (COI) into the Dec 8 riot heard yesterday.

After days spent questioning police on their tactics to quell the unrest that
night, the inquiry yesterday turned its focus to the working and living
conditions of foreign workers. This was to determine whether they had played any
role in spurring the mayhem.

Migrant Workers' Centre (MWC) executive director Bernard Menon made clear that
there was no "latent frustration or tension".

Since the centre opened in 2009, he had not heard workers complain of social or
racial discrimination, he said.

Mr Menon also highlighted a 2011 survey by the MWC and Manpower Ministry
involving more than 3,000 workers, which found that 94 per cent of them were
satisfied with work conditions here.

"The general majority of workers here are peaceful, genuine and hardworking," he
said. "Of course, they fear repatriation. So they don't want to get in trouble,
and rather fly under the radar."

When asked by committee chairman G. Pannir Selvam whether the riot was due to a
"build-up of dissatisfaction", Ms Jennie Yeo, deputy executive secretary of the
Building Construction and Timber Industries Employees' Union (Batu), said no.

She explained how 40 workers from four work sites, who were interviewed after
the Dec 8 incident, discounted unhappiness over working and living conditions as
a possible cause. They blamed alcohol, said Ms Yeo, a labour movement member for
close to 35 years.

Batu represents about 7,600 foreign workers, who make up a fifth of its
membership. None were involved in the riot, she added.

The COI also heard from two foreign workers who were in Little India as the
violence unfolded before them that night.

Excavator operator Seenuvasan Selvaraja, who came here 15 years ago on the
recommendation of his brother, gave Singapore "100 marks", explaining that "the
law and order was good" here.

"Staying here is like staying with your own family back in India," he said.
"Within minutes, you can meet up with friends. This does not happen elsewhere."

Construction worker Kannadasan Murugan told the committee he was satisfied with
his living quarters - a three-storey dormitory where 15 men share a "spacious"
room, even if 50 of them have to jostle for a bath at any one time.

When asked by Mr Selvam whether his daily basic salary of $24 was adequate, the
34-year-old, who has worked here for 13 years, replied it was not, and that $30
would be fairer. Retired judge Selvam then asked: "Would you go on a riot
because of your salary'"

Mr Kannadasan said, through a court interpreter: "No, sir. One does not have to
resort to violence. One just has to take the matter up (with the authorities)."

Mr Menon and Ms Yeo, however, believe that more can be done for foreign workers
here. Most, for instance, are not members of unions, which could look after
their interests, they said.

Batu and MWC are now working together to change that, said Ms Yeo, who earlier
caused a stir during the public hearing when she raised the issue of employers
here retaining workers' passports.

A collective gasp was heard in the courtroom when she described how some
employers keep their workers' passports and then set onerous conditions, such as
a deposit of up to $5,000, before releasing them. This practice is not in line
with labour regulations here.

Under the Passports Act, employers are prohibited from withholding their
workers' passports without their consent, and have to return the documents on
request.

Last year, it was made mandatory for employers to issue physical payslips to
workers, but Mr Menon also pointed out this practice is not yet widespread. He
added that the lack of a payslip and other employment documentation puts the
workers at a disadvantage when it comes to wage disputes.

Ms Yeo also shared that workers who turn to the court to get unpaid wages have
to cough up hundreds of dollars in fees - such as a $270 stamp duty - to enforce
a court order, while having no guarantee of succeeding.

Former National Trades Union Congress president John De Payva called this
"ridiculous" when he addressed the COI.

Mr Selvam agreed, saying: "This seems to me a case of double whammy in the sense
that you go to labour court because you don't have money... It is a law that's
nice on paper but not in practical terms."

asyiqins@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 2, 2014 Wednesday

Riot 'not a political issue' between India and S'pore

BYLINE: Nirmala Ganapathy, India Correspondent, In New Delhi

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


SINGAPORE'S Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam said he did not see the Little India
riot as "a political issue" between India and Singapore, and stressed that the
incident was not a migrant or a foreign worker issue.

A day after the findings of the Committee of Inquiry (COI) were released, Mr
Shanmugam, who is on a visit to India, said yesterday that the riot was "fuelled
by alcohol and feeling of injustice".

"People see someone dying and they feel something wrong in the way the person
died under the bus, which is why we had a full Committee of Inquiry to look into
the causes of death," he told reporters from the Indian and Singaporean media.

"If a Singaporean is involved in a riot in India, I would expect him or her to
be treated in accordance with the rule of law, and I would not make it a
state-to-state issue because so far the rioters have been dealt with in
accordance with the law. I don't see it as a political issue."

Mr Shanmugam also discussed the COI report in a meeting with External Affairs
Minister Sushma Swaraj, said Mr Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman for the Ministry of
External Affairs. But he did not go into the details of what was discussed at
the meeting.

The COI found in its report that a series of misunderstandings about a bus
accident that killed an Indian national had led to the riot.

Mr Shanmugam yesterday noted that "statistically, foreign workers in Singapore
commit far less crimes than locals".

"I visited the workers' dormitories after the riot," he said. "One thing that is
often overlooked is that workers coming to Singapore make a free choice. They
have a choice of going to any country... When they chose Singapore, they chose
with full knowledge of the working conditions and salary.

"And if you ask them, Singapore ranks at the top of the list of countries."

A recent survey showed that 95 per cent of workers had no complaints, Mr
Shanmugam said.

"It is not a situation where everything is perfect under the sun," he
acknowledged.

But he added: "Systemically is there a problem? No."

gnirmala@sph.com.sg

SEE ASIA

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

MHA may honour officers in Dec 8 riot

BYLINE: Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 232 words


THE Ministry of Home Affairs will consider giving commendations to the men and
women who performed outstandingly on the night of the Little India riot.

Said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean yesterday: "The Government will
consider recognising the Home Team officers who answered the call to action to
quell the riot that night in the face of personal danger and under difficult
circumstances."

He was replying to several MPs who had asked how officers at the riot would be
recognised.

The Committee of Inquiry (COI) had, in both its proceedings and its findings
released last week, praised the efforts of first responders on the night of Dec
8.

Yesterday, there was an outpouring of praise as well in Parliament, notably from
Ms Denise Phua (Moulmein-Kallang GRC), who oversees part of Little India.

She saluted them for their work while Mr Christopher de Souza (Holland-Bukit
Timah GRC) asked the House to put on record the officers' bravery.

DPM Teo defended the ground commander that night after Mr Vikram Nair (Sembawang
GRC) pointed out the COI had criticised Deputy Assistant Commissioner Lu Yeow
Lim. Without naming DAC Lu, DPM Teo said while people can make an analysis of
the incident after the fact, he has to assess the judgment officers make on the
ground. "So I evaluate the actions of the commanders and the officers that night
and I do not find them wanting."

asyiqins@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

Beyond the riot: 5 questions;
The Dec 8 riot in Little India was quelled within hours. By 6.45am the next day,
roads where the violence - the worst in Singapore in more than 40 years - broke
out were open to traffic. A national inquiry was convened almost immediately,
and cooling measures such as a ban on public consumption and sale of alcohol
were introduced. The Committee of Inquiry has now submitted its report, and
eight recommendations on how to prevent a repeat of the incident have been
accepted by the Government and debated in Parliament. Yet even as the dust
settles, Insight's Hoe Pei Shan, Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh and Walter Sim ask:
Are there issues that linger'

SECTION: INSIGHT

LENGTH: 3433 words


Are there enough police officers'

THAT is a question that has kept coming up in the seven months since the Dec 8
riot.

The issue came to the fore at the Committee of Inquiry (COI) hearings earlier
this year, after Police Commissioner Ng Joo Hee told the committee that he would
need 1,000 more officers.

The extra manpower, he said, would allow him to raise additional troops
specialised in tackling riots, as well as beef up patrol teams that police hot
spots and neighbourhoods.

Two MPs raised his request in Parliament on Monday, after Deputy Prime Minister
Teo Chee Hean announced plans to add 300 men to anti-riot troops in the Special
Operations Command (SOC).

One was Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC's Hri Kumar Nair, who wondered how the force would
recruit the 1,000 given the tight labour market, while opposition MP Sylvia Lim
asked if there was a "serious under-resource problem".

There is, however, no magic number when it comes to the strength of a police
force, said security expert Kumar Ramakrishna, head of the Centre of Excellence
for National Security here. "Too many and accusations of 'police state' may be
heard. Too few... and public anxiety may spike."

But the decision to reinforce the SOC troops is a step in the right direction,
he added.

DPM Teo also said on Monday that the Gurkha Contingent - and if necessary, the
Singapore Armed Forces - can be tapped if a large public order incident occurs.

Case in point: Army reinforcements were activated to support the police during
the manhunt for terrorist leader Mas Selamat Kastari after he escaped from
detention in February 2008.

It was also after the debacle that year when the Ministry of Home Affairs said
it was stepping up recruitment. This after it announced a study on its workload
in Parliament earlier, said Ms Lim.

"But as the riot shows, the extent of the problem is still serious after six
years." She said more officers are now needed to fill positions for community
policing, as well as to police, among other things, emerging threats such as
transnational and organised crime.

As of last year, there were just under 8,800 regular police officers. This means
a ratio of one officer to 614 residents. The force, however, is supported by
about 3,700 full-time police national servicemen and 2,000 volunteer officers.

London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and New York, however, have police strength two to
three times that of Singapore's, said Mr Ng.

He also told the COI that the Singapore Police Force has been kept compact in
line with public service restraints.

Insight understands the police saw job cuts across its divisions, including the
SOC, as part of a public sector-wide drive to shave 9 per cent of its workforce
over three years from 2004.

Mr Nair, however, said Singapore's low crime rate - compared to other major
cities - means "we are not too off the mark".

The numbers alone are also not a true indication of police capability,
especially when new technology allows the officers here to do more with less, he
said.

Still, DPM Teo told Parliament that between 2008 and 2014, more than 1,000 new
posts have been added for initiatives such as the Community Policing System -
almost all of which have been filled. The force has also increased its headcount
by about 15 per cent in the past 10 years.

This despite recruitment challenges beyond the tight labour market. For
instance, potential recruits would need to satisfy stringent requirements. Also,
like most forces around the world, foreigners - unless they are permanent
residents - need not apply.

Ms Lim suggested that the Government strengthen its mechanisms to regularly
assess and detect whether operational capabilities are being compromised,
without needing major incidents to show up the problems.

Mr Nair said that with the additional officers for the SOC in the next two to
three years, DPM Teo has made it clear that the focus, for now, is on building
up the SOC. "And he was confident that could be achieved in the short-term, so
that gives a measure of assurance."

Are police ready for security crises'

IN PEACEFUL Singapore, where a riot lasting a few hours made its mark as the
worst public disorder incident in four decades, questions have lingered over the
preparedness of the police.

This was brought up again in Parliament on Monday by opposition MP Sylvia Lim,
who asked Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean if the police lacked "actual
practice" in dealing with public order incidents such as the Little India riot.
She even went as far as to suggest that the Government "allow more peaceful
protests" so that the police can "test their policing capabilities". It was a
suggestion shot down by DPM Teo.

Beyond the suggestion she made, her question mirrored the unease some felt after
watching footage of the violence that unfolded in Little India on Dec 8. Some of
those clips were presented as evidence during the public hearings but many,
recorded with smartphones, were also uploaded online by netizens.

One video clip showing a group of auxiliary police and Home Team officers
running out of an ambulance as the mob turned on the vehicle was highlighted by
the COI as an act that emboldened the rioters. The decision of the police ground
commander to hold their ground instead of confronting rioters was also
questioned by the committee members.

DPM Teo, however, defended the officers, saying he had not found them wanting.
But he acknowledged that there were "lessons learnt from this incident", and
these would be taken into account in the review of training doctrines and the
equipping of front-line officers.

Another aspect that drew criticism from the COI was the delay in activating
anti-riot troops from the Special Operations Command (SOC) to the scene.

Mr Charles Heal, a United States-based law enforcement analyst, tells Insight:
"The criticism of too slow a response would seem valid and any steps to expedite
the process will serve to make interventions more effective in future
incidents."

However, the retired commander from the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department, notes
that the police response had demonstrated its "ability to effectively
intervene".

"That the Government had a well-trained and equipped force capable or responding
to riots despite the fact that they had had no serious problems in the last 40
years speaks volumes," he adds.

Security expert Kumar Ramakrishna, who heads the Centre of Excellence for
National Security here, says "in general, the police are prepared", but the riot
did shed light on where improvements could be made.

"Perhaps the capacity for more finely grained situational awareness, as well as
a more streamlined procedure for activating quick-response tactical forces were
also needed that night," says Associate Professor Kumar.

What most quarters seem to agree on is that the implementation of the COI's
recommendations, which includes building up Home Team capabilities to better
respond to public order incidents, would improve police response in the future.

For instance, DPM Teo announced in Parliament earlier this week that the SOC's
strength would be doubled to 600 over the next two to three years, allowing for
"a more capable, flexible and faster response capability".

The police have also cut short the process for SOC activation, now giving land
division commanders the authority to call on anti-riot troops without having to
first seek the approval of the director for police operations.

Mr Heal notes: "The recommendations in (the COI) report are sound and will have
the intended effect when implemented. The fact that the response was not perfect
is not unexpected.

"I will tell you that, in spite of the best efforts, the next one will not be
either. Based upon what I've read and seen so far, I will say, however, that the
next response will be better."

Did govt agencies take holistic approach'

WITH rampant drinking and large crowds of up to 100,000 on some Sundays, Little
India was a "bomb waiting to explode", said COI chairman G. Pannir Selvam.

Indeed, the flashpoint of the violence was a confluence of long-brewing factors
- all of which come under the purview of different government agencies.

These include the sheer number of liquor stores in the area, which relates to
the issue of alcohol licensing, and which the police administer; and chaotic
road conditions which could have been dealt with by the Land Transport Authority
(LTA).

Then there is the issue of chro-nic overcrowding, apparently due to a shortage
of recreational spots for foreign workers, which comes under the Manpower
Ministry.

Some steps, such as the setting up of an inter-agency taskforce to improve
infrastructure in the area, were already being taken before the Dec 8 incident.

That it took a riot to accelerate a raft of reforms, however, raises the crucial
question of whether there can be better coordination among the various agencies,
says Singapore Management University law don Eugene Tan.

"The big picture was missing... Each agency sought to do well for what is under
its jurisdiction, but did not pay enough attention to the ripple effects of what
is done and what is not done," he says.

The LTA, for instance, may have thought bussing workers to Little India from
their dormitories would ease the strain on the public transport system. But that
led to overcrowding, bringing with it law and order issues, which is why he says
agencies have to look "beyond their navels".

Sociologist Paulin Straughan agrees that government agencies should keep abreast
of issues outside their jurisdiction, so they don't get "blindsided", which "can
destabilise a small nation like Singapore".

And grassroots leaders and MPs - who Prof Tan says are not appreciated enough -
should be more intimately involved, sitting on inter-agency committees.

MPs watching over hot spots like Little India and Geylang have said residents'
concerns were not addressed quickly enough by the authorities. Marine Parade GRC
MP Fatimah Lateef, who looks after Geylang, wrote on her Facebook page in March
that "hundreds of hours" of meeting agencies to clean up the area were met with
a lack of concrete action.

Moulmein-Kallang GRC MP Denise Phua, who oversees part of Little India,
acknowledges some measures were in place before the riot - with auxiliary police
officers deployed since 2009 to manage issues such as littering, and drunkards
urinating or sleeping at void decks of HDB blocks.

However, alcohol was not an issue addressed then, says Ms Phua, who has long
called for the Government to restrict alcohol consumption and sale in the area.

Liaison officers from key agencies already sit in at grassroots meetings, but a
way to cut red tape is to set up a unit that deals with inter-agency issues
identified by MPs and is led by officers senior enough to push for changes, she
adds.

When it comes to getting different agencies to work together, says sociologist
Tan Ern Ser, it depends on who sounds the alarm. "Like it or not, hierarchy
matters in a bureaucracy," he says, which makes it important for there to be
proper channels to help MPs bring up concerns to higher authorities.

And the quality of feedback from the ground should be good, otherwise the
Government will be weighed down by complaints.

But, says political scientist Reuben Wong, there is a need to look beyond
government agencies, or else "deeper" issues could get missed out. "We need
whole-of-society participation and solutions... not just a whole-of-government
approach," he says.

"The Government needs to work more closely with civil society, like NGOs, rights
groups, in addition to listening to local representatives like MPs."

Can S'pore be more friendly to foreigners'

SOME quarters were quick to link the Dec 8 riot to an uncorking of simmering
fury among discriminated-against foreign workers.

The Committee of Inquiry into the fracas, however, found no "systemic
dissatisfaction" among the workers.

Even so, it called for more sensitivity to create a "friendlier environment for
foreign workers", urging those who interact with transient workers to be given
some basic cultural training. Such training could include basic or key words in
native languages, which could dissolve barriers.

This is an area Singapore has not been proactive in, and it has taken its
transient workforce largely for granted, say observers.

Sociologist Paulin Straughan, a National University of Singapore associate
professor, says there have been "telltale signs" over the years, resulting in
the need to mandate safety rules for lorries ferrying workers, as well as a day
off for domestic workers.

"In a capitalist society, we tend to attach a dollar value to output. And when
it's low, there is a mistaken impression that their work is not important," she
adds.

Singapore Kindness Movement chief William Wan says Singaporeans could be more
appreciative and treat foreigners "the way we would like to be treated".

Meanwhile, Ms Braema Mathi, president of human rights group Maruah calls for
workplace sensitivity classes and school workshops on inclusion. These are
crucial to "forge a value system" on how foreign workers are treated here, she
says, adding that Singapore has been "slow on the uptake". About 30 per cent of
its 5.4 million people are foreigners.

Despite a surge of anti-foreigner sentiment online linking social ills to
migrants, observers say it would be "over-simplistic" to attribute this to
deep-seated xenophobia or racism.

Mr Mersole Mellejor, Consul of the Philippine Embassy in Singapore, tells
Insight that in spite of recent online protests targeting the Filipino
population here, "we believe that Singapore is not a xenophobic country".
"Filipinos remain relatively safe in the country and relations between Filipinos
and Singaporeans are warm and outstanding," he says.

He holds this view, even after plans to hold a Philippine Independence Day
celebration at Ngee Ann City were met with protest by a small group of netizens.

Sociologist Mathew Mathews of the Institute of Policy Studies (IPS) says
Singaporeans "don't really have the propensity to be xenophobic" and accept
foreigners on the basis that they will uphold certain norms and contribute.

But Singaporeans have not been quick to adapt to changing winds, and the
Chinese-Malay-Indian-Other (CMIO) dictum has left some "flat-footed" in dealing
with diversity, says Ms Mathi.

That can be dangerous, says Aware's senior manager for programmes and
communications, Ms Jolene Tan. "People judge whether others are 'Singaporean'
enough based on prejudices on features such as accent," she said.

The issue has been compounded by anxieties about job competition, rising
property prices and strains on the public transport system. This has elevated
the "us versus them" mentality, leading to ugly invective online.

Dr Carol Soon and Mr Tan Tarn How of the IPS wrote in a recent paper that online
users, perceiving anonymity, "often underestimate the scale and speed of
information-sharing facilitated by social media".

Ms Mathi says: "These reactions do not always come from a place of
mean-spiritedness... (But) some of us are in self-preservation mode and wish to
alienate other communities that fall outside the CMIO model."

Dr Mathew adds: "Once emotions are raised on these issues and emotions
constantly fuelled, it is hard for people to really be rational about how they
view the foreigner issue."

And so xenophobia could take root if more is not done, and if the line between
feeling threatened and outright hatred is crossed.

Associate Professor Straughan says: "We need to break down a lot of barriers,
prejudices and worries that Singaporeans have. Singapore is a very small
country, and we should be displaying more community spirit."

Alcohol crackdown a policy overshoot'

CRITICS of the temporary restrictions and security measures implemented in
Little India soon after the riot have been quick to accuse the Government of
overreacting.

The alcohol prohibitions under the Public Order (Additional Temporary Measures)
Act, for instance, drew cries of "policy overshooting".

The Government's reaction appears excessive, said several business owners in
Little India and some MPs, with some noting that the alcohol prohibitions were
introduced months before the COI released its report.

Under the Act, which was passed in February and is valid for a year starting
from April this year, alcohol consumption in public places is prohibited during
weekends, from 6am on Saturday to 6am on Monday.

The prohibition also applies from 6am on the eve of public holidays to 6am on
the day after the holiday. It is also now an offence to sell or supply alcohol
at any premises in a special zone, with exceptions for certain circumstances
such as for restaurants holding public house and beer house licences. These can
continue their business by allowing the sale and consumption of alcohol in their
premises.

Among the first to cry foul were liquor licence holders.

Mr Rajakumar Chandra, chairman of the Little India Shopkeepers and Heritage
Association, tells Insight: "Before the riot, there were no such restrictions.
The merchants said these impositions made them lose their main source of
livelihood, and were an overreaction from the Government."

Nine MPs also rose in Parliament in February to criticise the Act when it was
introduced as a Bill, with six opposing it altogether. Among the latter were
members from the Workers' Party (WP), which took a party stance against the
Bill.

WP chairman Sylvia Lim (Aljunied GRC) called the introduction of the Bill
"hasty" and "a knee- jerk reaction".

But others, such as MP Denise Phua (Moulmein-Kallang GRC), found the
restrictions to have been a long time coming.

She tells Insight that she and her residents in Little India "are generally
satisfied with the post-riot measures".

"Many of them have called for the strict measures on alcohol sale and
consumption in public places to remain on a permanent basis," she says. "Whether
it is 'policy overshooting' or not, depends on who you speak with. To the
residents who live in Little India, the general mood is to be safe than sorry."

Second Minister for Home Affairs S. Iswaran told Parliament on Feb 18, as the
House debated the Bill's passage, that there was good reason that the new law
appears to be alcohol-centric. "This is because we do not have provisions in our
laws for such measures."

Mr Iswaran noted that "some have asked if we are jumping the gun", but said "the
Bill introduces, out of necessity, targeted and temporary powers to restrict the
sale, supply and consumption of alcohol".

Dr Tan Ern Ser, a sociology professor at the Institute of Policy Studies, notes
the difficulty in trying to evaluate if the new policies amount to "an overkill"
without conducting prolonged experiments testing variations of alcohol
restrictions and their outcomes.

"In the absence of empirical data, it would seem logical to impose restrictions
during known peak periods," says Dr Tan. "However, this should not prevent the
authorities from making further adjustments, whether to reduce or increase the
duration of restrictions in future."

Singapore Management University associate law professor Eugene Tan points out
that it is easier to dial the restrictions "downwards following public feedback
and debate", than to attempt to tighten them further after they are introduced.

The disparity between the policies pre-riot and post-riot may have also led some
to perceive the new alcohol restrictions as "overshooting".

"That said, however, I do think that the Government views the post-riot
alcoholic sale and consumption restrictions made for a necessary and
proportionate response, considering the significance of alcohol as a
contributory factor to the riot's escalation, as well as the longstanding social
disamenities prior to the riot," he adds.

Dr Tan, on the other hand, is of the opinion that the Government "tends to be
quite cautious in its approach, and its policies may sometimes come across as
'overshooting', especially in hindsight". But it is also "prepared to make
adjustments in response to feedback".

On whether the restrictions were an overreaction or not, Dr Eduardo Araral, an
assistant professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, says: "I
understand the critics: shopkeepers will lose some business; some people prefer
less restrictions; others would say it's not the alcohol that caused the riot.

"Civil servants might say it's easy to criticise policies if you are not on the
receiving end of accountability. All of these are a healthy part of public
discourse."

hpeishan@sph.com.sg

asyiqins@sph.com.sg

waltsim@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            December 12, 2014 Friday

Little India riot wasn't about race

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS; Online Story

LENGTH: 157 words


MR ADRIAN Villanueva suggests the Little India riot was a racial riot ("Dealing
with unrest firmly but fairly"; Forum Online, Tuesday). He even cited the 1965
and 1969 racial riots in Singapore and how the police handled them, and touched
on the alleged United States police discrimination against African Americans.

Sadly, I have come across many Singaporeans who expressed similar views in the
aftermath of the Little India riot. These betray a poor understanding of the
matter.

Last year's Little India riot was not a racial riot even though those involved
were mostly Indians. They were foreign workers from India who were incensed by
the death of their countryman in a bus accident. They directed their anger at
anything they saw as a symbol of the establishment. They were not against any
particular race, as some Indian Singaporeans were also targeted by them.

To give the incident a racial slant does a disservice to the country.

N. Nagesh

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Putting the pieces together, after a riot

BYLINE: Joyce Hooi joyceh@sph.com.sg

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 1363 words


Singapore

YOU load sixteen tons, what do you get? Almost 70 years after Tennessee Ernie
Ford's coal-mining hero asked this question in song, millions of migrants ask a
variant of this question every year as they cross borders to earn a living.

Even before they show up in Little India or Chinatown, a lot of math has taken
place. In India and Bangladesh, the per capita income is US$1,491 and US$1,044,
respectively. Here, migrant workers make anything from $700 to $900 a month in
industries where steel and concrete make up the working man's sixteen tons.

Usually, the math works out. Working on the site of a terrace house here, A
Arasappan is putting two of his children through university in India on his
wages as a construction worker. They are studying electrical engineering, he
says. A grizzled man with greying hair, he has been here a while and plans to
keep coming back.

For us, Mr Arasappan is good math, too. Singapore has been in the throes of a
building frenzy, under the pressure of a populace that wants affordable housing
and transport, and wants it by yesterday. As at June 2013, in the preceding
two-and-a-half years, work-permit holders - the lowest tier of the foreign
workforce - ballooned almost 100,000 to 970,600

As this situation of mutual need ensued, an informal compact formed - build our
houses, highways and ships for less pay than we would accept, don't make any
trouble and go home better off than before you came.

"I always believe that they're here to make a living, they want to work hard and
do well. So, we always provide the opportunity for them to do so," says Von Lee,
executive chairman of Expand Construction.

A break in the compact

Last Sunday, after a bus killed a foreign worker in Little India, others picked
up sticks, rocks and bottles, and a full-blown riot ensued. As a horrified
nation witnessed upturned police cars and an ambulance in flames, this compact
appeared to have ruptured in real time. In the wake of the 400-strong riot, 31
people have been charged so far.

In the days that followed, the questions that were asked required answers that
only those who had rioted could offer.

On Thursday, Law Minister K Shanmugam objected to foreign media inferring an
immediate relationship between the riot and workers' dissatisfaction. "I'm not
saying you can't say it, but I think I'd like to see some evidence to back up a
fairly substantive statement," he said.

Other quarters seem to be fairly certain.

"(The Migrant Workers' Centre) firmly believes that the incident is an isolated
issue and not related to employment," its spokeswoman told The Business Times.
MWC, a non-governmental organisation, is a joint effort of the National Trades
Union Congress and the Singapore National Employers Federation.

As an alcohol ban hangs over Little India this weekend, for some, the initial
analysis is much more complex. "It's not just a simple problem of law and order
. . . I think this alcohol reason will not wash," says Alan Chong, an associate
professor with NTU's S Rajaratnam School of International Studies. "There are
these background trigger issues, because people don't resort to violence out of
a single reason."

In the coming weeks, these possible trigger issues are likely to be hotly
contended.

According to Prof Chong, what we saw last Sunday could be called a
"globalisation riot".

While the actions of the rioters stood out in stark contrast from the rest of
the populace here, Singapore is itself somewhat an outlier in the current
restive climate. This is its first riot in decades.

In a sense, the riot afforded the country a glimpse of what the rest of the
world could be like, where the underclass is a lot more visible and given to
expression.

"When people think of globalisation, they think of having fine wines in Paris
tonight, watching Broadway theatre in New York the next night, and consuming
fine sushi in Tokyo after that," says Prof Chong.

"There is the other story of globalisation, which I think Singaporeans are not
fully aware of, where people who are poor have to find work in the nearest
accessible wealthy country. There is another globalisation that is not glamorous
at all."

The poor and the low-skilled tend to have the most problems, and the problems
are ugly.

Yemen, the poorest country in the Arab world, now faces an influx of returning
citizens after Saudi Arabia expelled thousands of illegal migrant workers,
partially under the pressure of a 12 per cent unemployment rate.

In Qatar, preparations for the 2022 Fifa World Cup are rife with reports of
forced labour, unpaid wages of migrant workers and 19-hour workdays.

From the time a worker leaves his hometown, a series of opportunities for the
picking of his pocket exists for agents that charge a fee, loansharks that
charge interest and employers who demand kickbacks for work permit renewals.

On average, a foreign labourer works for five to nine months before his wages
stop going into the pockets of middlemen and into his own, according to a survey
of 163 foreign workers by migrant workers' rights group Transient Workers Count
Too (TWC2). The bulk of them paid the fees to agents in their home country.

Errant employers take their cut, too. Last year, a local construction firm was
charged with taking up to $500 per work permit renewal in kickbacks.

Even after all that, some employers simply will not pay. The most common types
of cases the MWC sees are salary arrears cases and work injury claims.

In Singapore, building something is the most dangerous work you can do. The
construction sector claimed 26 lives out of the 56 fatal injuries in the
workplace last year. It is one of the three traditional "higher risk" sectors
here, alongside marine and manufacturing - sectors where foreign labour is
over-represented.

For some, the souring of the migrant worker dream comes after an injury. TWC2
runs a meal project for migrant workers who are unable to work because of injury
or workplace investigations. Last year, that project had an average of 56
injured men each month who had been waiting more than one year for compensation,
it said.

At some point, a comparison of Singapore to other countries becomes inevitable.
This is problematic because of the undocumented nature of migrant workers
elsewhere and the need not to compare apples with oranges, or Singapore with
Dubai.

"In most of the Western economies, their migrant workers are different because
they're skilled labour," says D Parthasarathy, a visiting professor with NUS's
South Asian Studies Programme.

There is also the question of whether a comparison misses the point. TWC2's Alex
Au reckons that the principles at work should be basic ones of fair play and
justice. "It you promise someone a certain salary, it's very hard to justify any
other way why you don't pay him that salary," he says.

These issues are compounded by the kind of discomfort that cannot be expressed
in concrete terms.

"I don't believe that the root causes are anything specific like unhappiness
with the government or with Singapore," says Banyan Tree executive chairman Ho
Kwon Ping.

"It has to do with being cooped up and frustrated with nothing to do, to go, and
feeling unwelcome wherever you try to go to."

Singapore - as with any other country that imports labour - depends on migrant
workers being willing to disrupt their own lives so that business-as-usual can
take place here.

"They are living in very unnatural kinds of situations because they're mostly
male, living with other men. They're not living as part of families or
households like us. That can impose a lot of stress on people," says Prof
Parthasarathy.

On a practical level, better integration involves making sure that migrant
workers understand the social norms and constraints of Singapore, experts say.
Usually, the gist of socialising a migrant worker is the message: You are in a
different country now, and things are different.

But increasing globalisation will bring more of these hard realities to
Singapore, and Singaporeans.

"Singaporeans have, at some point, to wake up to the fact that we're not going
to be able to pretend that we're a wonderful, tidy First World country," Prof
Chong says.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Singapore Roundup

SECTION: SINGAPORE

LENGTH: 157 words


MOM, ILO renew partnership

THE Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and the International Labour Organization (ILO)
have renewed their partnership agreement to improve labour and workplace
practices in South-east Asia. The deal, signed in Geneva yesterday, will see
both sides collaborate on areas such as productivity, occupational safety and
health, tripartism and social dialogue.

Little India riot report due by month-end

DEPUTY Prime Minister and Home Affairs Minister Teo Chee Hean has agreed to the
request from the Committee of Inquiry (COI) on the Little India riot to submit
its report and recommendations by the end of this month. The COI has conducted a
further inquiry after the public hearing, including interviews on June 3 with
some people convicted for their involvement in last December's riot. The COI had
requested for a two-week extension to go through the testimonies and other
relevant information to prepare its report to Mr Teo.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday

Senior policemen "colluded" with government in anti-Sikh riots - India portal

LENGTH: 715 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 22 April: A sting operation carried out by a news portal on Tuesday
[22 April] claimed that the government had failed to take action to stop the
1984 anti-Sikh riots and senior police officers "colluded" with the then
government to teach Sikhs a "lesson".

An investigation conducted by Cobrapost - Chapter 84 - claimed to have
confessions of officers of Delhi Police, most of whom have admitted in the sting
to their "failure" as a force to take action against the culprits.

Cobrapost recorded the conversations of Shoorveer Singh Tyagi, then station
house officer (SHO) Kalyanpuri; Rohtas Singh, SHO Delhi Cantonment; S.N.
Bhaskar, SHO Krishna Nagar; O.P. Yadav, SHO Srinivaspuri; and Jaipal Singh, SHO
Mehrauli. The news portal claimed that [senior officer's name omitted]
conveniently parried all questions while [senior officer's name omitted]
straightaway rejected the idea that he had any first-hand knowledge of rioting.

The news portal claimed that confessions of these officials revealed that while
warnings about the simmering communal sentiments against Sikhs went unheard by
senior officers, only 2 per cent of the messages of news of arson and rioting
which bombarded the police control rooms were recorded.

It also claimed that police log books were "conveniently" changed to eliminate
evidence of inaction on the part of senior officers while some other officers
did not act for fear of punishment being transferred.

According to the confessions of these officers, Cobrapost claimed, some police
officers dumped bodies of victims somewhere else to minimize riot-related
crimes, and messages were broadcast directing police to not take action against
rioters who were shouting slogans of "Indira Gandhi zindabad [Long Live Indira
Gandhi]".

"The government of the day did not allow the police to act, while creating an
impression that the police were not performing their duty," the news portal
alleged.

"While most of them candidly admitted to their failure as a force, some of them
confessed that the top brass of the police force colluded with the government of
the day to teach Sikhs a lesson," the news portal said in its statement.

The sting was carried out over one year with vast majority of the shoots in the
last two months.

"The idea behind it was to get a snapshot of the 1984 traumatic event which
followed after the assassination of the then-prime minister, Indira Gandhi," it
said.

"So we decided to go and hear from the policemen under whose watch the incidents
of rioting, arson, murder happened," said Anirudh Behl, Cobrapost editor.

The news portal claimed that Amrik Singh Bhullar, who was then the Patel Nagar
SHO, had also named some local leaders in his affidavit, accusing them of
instigating and even leading the frenzied mobs.

Behl said that Kalyanpuri was the place where more than 500-600 Sikhs were
massacred. The editor further claimed that the police did not allow the victims
of rioting to lodge first information reports (FIRs) or when they filed FIRs,
they clubbed many cases of murder and arson that took in disparate places in one
FIR.

"Senior police officers did not allow their subordinates to open fire on rioters
while even the fire brigade refused to move to areas where cases of arson had
been reported by police," he alleged.

At least three officers interviewed by Cobrapost were unanimous in condemning
the dubious role of [senior officer's name omitted] in not providing leadership
to the force and castigated [reference to senior officer omitted] without
mincing words.

Criticising [name omitted] for "acting under the influence" of the government,
SHO Tyagi said: "Toh jaane anjane mein wo government ke influence mein rahe
hain. Unhone mismanage kiya shuru mein aur do din jab asal mein baat jab haath
se nikal gayi. (So, knowingly or unknowingly, he was under the influence of the
government. He mismanaged the situation in the beginning and in the first two
days it went out of control)."

Similarly, Yadav accuses [name omitted] of not providing leadership to the
force, while Bhaskar says that instead of singling out some station house
officers, [reference omitted]'s head should have rolled, the news portal said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1046gmt 22 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday

Religion, ethnicity and terror

BYLINE: Haroon Siddiqui, Toronto Star

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. AA05

LENGTH: 652 words


Mumbai attackers used BlackBerrys

thestar.com, Dec. 5

In this story, the author presents an informed description of the technological
tools used by the Mumbai attackers. However, it is not surprising that the
Mumbai attackers used technology during their attack; it should have been
expected.

Historically, terrorists have used every possible tool, often adapting everyday
items, to gain any possible advantage. These efforts are evidenced by the
airplanes used during 9/11 attacks; the fertilizer, diesel fuel and truck used
in the Oklahoma City bombing; and the cars, grenades and homemade bombs used in
contemporary insurgent attacks.

Without the full financial and logistical support of a country, a sub-national
terrorist group uses these alternative methods to spread terror. How else in an
asymmetric war could one side make a difference if it did not use these tactics?
The Taliban would clearly lose if it engaged NATO forces on the traditional
battlefield, where one army lines up and directly battles its opponent on the
opposite side of the field.

Most critically, the Mumbai attackers' use of everyday items makes them more
effective as their tools are available to almost everyone, thus widening the
spread and impact of their terror.

A. Frances Cation, Toronto

No need to add 'Muslim'

Letter, Dec. 1

Linking terrorists to an ethnicity or religion only gives them a sense of
belonging to a larger group, and gives these misguided souls a false sense of
justification for their acts, as if everyone in the group supports them. The
evil ones that recruit them are banking on this fact.

How about just calling them terrorists, and leave out the connection to their
religion or ethnicity? Would this not help to isolate them to the very small
minority they represent?

Venkat Aiyar, Ajax

Mumbai's great spirit will help city

rise above terror attacks, Nov. 30

It certainly is thrilling to read such a line. But is it any consolation to all
the innocent people who died? Politicians in India always use such phrases to
absolve themselves of their responsibility of looking after the security of
citizens.

Perhaps Indians should learn from the West where politicians are held
responsible for the safety of their citizens. For God's sake, let us not let the
so-called leaders get away without due punishment. Only when we elect
responsible leaders can we hope for peace. Otherwise there will be another such
incident in a few weeks. No religion should be blamed.

Pravin Desai, Markham

When terrorists struck Mumbai recently, the inhuman face of humanity was
revealed again in a ghastly way reminiscent of attacks in Bali and elsewhere in
India. What has India done to deserve this? Surely, this is a temporary setback
to the progress that India has recently made in space and information
technology.

Terrorists are never born, they are created. India should tackle the root causes
of terrorism by dialogue and at the same time invest in security. India needs a
Homeland Security department comprised of statesmen and the armed forces to
safeguard the country from illegal entry via sea, air and land.

For homegrown terrorists, India should deal with the issue of hatred being
spread from religious schools with a heavy hand and cut off monetary and
material support to these organizations.

Joseph Antony, Toronto

I am very disappointed by Haroon Siddiqui's take on the Mumbai terror attack. He
seems to be justifying terror attacks. He insulted India.

Manoj Sasankan, Toronto

Extremists fail to realize that despite occasional Hindu-Muslim riots, India has
a tradition of tolerance and non-violence left behind by Gandhi. This is why
there has been no Hindu backlash in the aftermath of the attack. The world must
pressure Pakistan to co-operate with India in tracking down the extremists who
are operating from Pakistan's lawless tribal areas because they are as much a
threat to Pakistan as they are to India.

Mahmood Elahi, Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  AMIT GUPTA reuters photo Indian girl prays during a candlelight vigil
held in Jammu Friday for the victims of Mumbai's recent attacks.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              202 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday

Sikhs plan protest over politician's visit;
Indian transport minister alleged to be linked to 1984 killings following
Gandhi's assassination

SECTION: GTA; Pg. GT02

LENGTH: 545 words


Sikhs have called him a war criminal. A Nazi. Pol Pot.

He was one of the many accused of organizing pogroms against Sikhs in November
1984 after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh
bodyguards in New Delhi. More than 3,000 Sikhs were killed in four days.

Now Kamal Nath, minister for road transport and highways in India, is in
Toronto. He is speaking Tuesday at a reception hosted by the Canada-India
Business Council at the King Edward Hotel.

Outraged Sikhs across the country are demanding that he be sent packing.

"Canada has a standing in the world for upholding human rights, and when I see
my government sponsoring events where a man accused of killing hundreds of Sikhs
gets a platform, it makes me very angry," said Amanpreet Bal, of the World Sikh
Organization.

"His visit is a slap in the face to the Sikh community, for whom the issue of
prosecuting the guilty is still very much a live issue."

But Premier Dalton McGuinty said he was not aware of Sikh concerns, and that
Nath's upcoming meeting with him will be their third.

"It's the first time I've heard of this," he said at an Etobicoke high school
Monday, adding that 1984 was "many years ago."

He also noted that Nath's admission to Canada is a federal responsibility, and
the federal government has "welcomed" Nath to Canada.

But Liberal sources confide there is concern about sparking controversy by
having McGuinty meet with Nath.

"We're totally blindsided by this and no one wants to offend the Sikh
community," an insider said.

Catherine Loubier, Foreign Affairs spokeswoman in Ottawa, said Nath is a
long-serving elected representative and that a commission that investigated
allegations of his involvement found no evidence of wrongdoing. "Minister Nath
has visited Canada on past occasions, beginning in 2001," she said.

Sikhs say his visits are kept low-profile because they rankle the community.

Nath began a week-long official visit Wednesday, meeting federal and provincial
ministers and corporate leaders. Sikhs have been writing to politicians
highlighting the accusations, and started email campaigns and Facebook groups to
spread awareness.

The 1984 riots were India's worst since it won independence in 1947, and the
wounds still run deep in the Sikh community. For four blood-chilling days in
November, rioters fanned through New Delhi, hunting for Sikhs. Their hair was
cut, then they were stabbed or bludgeoned. Survivors later testified that
rioters were directed by leaders of the ruling Congress Party, including Nath.
Eyewitnesses alleged that on Nov. 1, Nath led a mob that attacked a Sikh temple
and burned several people inside.

A commission that indicted Nath could not determine whether he was involved.
While Nath testified that he was trying to disperse the mob, a journalist on the
ground testified he "was controlling the crowd and the crowd was looking to him
for directions."

More than 20 people have been convicted in connection with the riots, though
prosecutions continue at a snail's pace.

"Every Sikh was impacted by what happened in New Delhi in 1984," said Lovleen
Kaur, a student at York University. "It's not something that the next
generation, my generation, can forget."

A demonstration is planned for Tuesday evening outside the King Edward Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Kamal Nath began a week-long visit to Canada on Wednesday.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              203 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

Vibrant warmth ends British chill

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 463 words


GANDHINAGAR: The United Kingdom ended its decade-long boycott of Gujarat chief
minister Narendra Modi on Monday with its high commissioner in India James Bevan
meeting Modi for the first time after the 2002 communal riots. The two discussed
opportunities for economic cooperation and ensuring justice for the three
British nationals killed during the riots.

"The engagement was always there. We now look forward to increased ties," said
Bevan in Ahmedabad after the meeting. "As we improve ties with India, we cannot
ignore Gujarat."

In Sadbhavana mode Modi made a minority-friendly gesture by presenting two
paintings on cloth to Bevan with the Tree of Life motif. The paintings were made
in the traditional Rogan art form by Muslim families in Kutch.

The British government had had dissociated itself from the Gujarat government
after the post-Godhra riots to protest alleged lack of religious freedom for
minorities. But with Modi's growing importance in national politics, attempts
are being made to mend fences. The British high commissioner also met Gujarat
governor Dr Kamla, state Congress chief Arjun Modhwadia and human rights
activists during his eight-hour visit.

After his 50-minute meeting with Modi, Bevan insisted that UK's engagement
should not been as any endorsement of a particular person. The high commissioner
also raised the issue of justice to families of three British nationals killed
in the riots. Six people are being tried for killing the three - all Muslims of
Indian origin - on February 28, 2002 near Prantij in Sabarkantha.

"We hope for a speedy trial. Judicial trials of 2002 riot cases have seen
convictions including a former member of Gujarat government," he said referring
to life sentence to former minister Maya Kodnani.

Modi also welcomed the decision of British Prime Minister David Cameron to
strengthen and develop relations with Gujarat. Keeping in mind the large
Gujarati community in the UK, Modi urged Bevan to start an office of deputy
British High Commission in Gujarat.

The UK India Business Council has already agreed to partner the Vibrant Gujarat
Global Investors' Summit in January next year. Modi said there were great
opportunities for British companies, particularly in projects like Gujarat
International Finance Tec-city (GIFT) and port development.

Bevan also insisted there was no symbolic message in his visit just ahead of the
assembly polls. "I don't think a British high commissioner spending time in
Ahmedabad is going to affect elections," he said.

He however remained non-committal on Modi becoming eligible for a UK visa. "He
hasn't applied for a visa as of now. We will consider it as and when it happens.
We take every application on a case to case basis," the high commissioner said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 9, 2014 Saturday

Indian batsmen slump against England pacers

BYLINE: Sumit Mukherjee

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 882 words


MANCHESTER: It was like one of those horror flicks where if you miss the first
few minutes, you struggle to catch the plot.

It indeed looked very spooky when India lost their top four for just eight runs
in 31 balls after their captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni won the toss and elected to
bat under an overcast sky and on Old Trafford's moisture-laden pitch.

But with Indian batsmen bent upon self-destruction, there was no Hitchcockian
twist in the tale. But for a counter-attacking knock of 71 from Dhoni and an
entertaining 40 by R Ashwin on his comeback, there was nothing of note in the
Indian innings that produced just 152 runs and lasted less than a one-day
innings.

At stumps, the hosts were 113 for 3 after losing the wickets of Sam Robson to
Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Alastair Cook and Gary Balance to Varun Aaron.

It was indeed a lively track with good pace, bounce and some demons in it. James
Anderson, condoned for abusing Ravindra Jadeja at Trent Bridge, continued to
torment Indian batsmen by making the ball talk in conditions tailormade for his
brand of bowling.

The skill with which he bent the ball, making it dart either way in the air and
off the seam, made you wonder why he lets his mouth do so much talking in the
first place.

And with Stuart Broad putting off surgery on his injured ankle till the end of
the series to lend a helping hand to Anderson, England did not need much back-up
support.

A peep at old records showed that it was India's worst start in 62 years --a
slight improvement on their bone-chilling four-down for no score at Leeds in
1952 --but they never looked like repairing the early damage and get the innings
back on an even keel.

It looked like a 'fishing' competition after the match got off to a delayed
start (30 mins) because of an early morning drizzle. England's five-man slip
cordon and wicketkeeper Jos Buttler had a busy time as Anderson and Broad kept
the ball up and swung it appreciably.

Gautam Gambhir, back in whites after almost two years, showed no foot movement
as Broad squared him up with one that left him and the resultant edge was held
by Joe Root at gully. Murali Vijay, who left 9 of the 14 balls he faced, was
forced to play at one from Anderson that moved away late and Alastair Cook held
the edge low down.

Virat Kohli's miserable tour continued when he edged the second ball he faced to
give Anderson his second wicket, while Broad accounted for Cheteshwar Pujara by
having him drive away from his body.

Ajinkya Rahane showed why he has been one of the more successful Indian batsmen
on this tour with a brief knock that promised much before ending in
disappointment. His 54-run partnership with Dhoni arrested the slide, but when
he too perished behind the wicket while trying to drive ambitiously, shortly
before the lunch break, India were back in the dock at 62/5.

There was no change in the script for India after lunch as Anderson trapped
Jadeja leg before wicket to add insult to injury before Ashwin contributed a
brisk 40 off 42 balls in a 66-run partnership with Dhoni to give the Indian
innings a coat of self-respect.

Ashwin, who was easily the best Indian batsman on view, however, went for an
overambitious pull off Broad to gift his wicket away.

Realising that the end of the innings was near, Dhoni went on the attack and
gathered some useful runs. Dhoni, who lived a charmed life with edges off his
blade either falling short or wide of the slip fielders, finally perished while
trying to pull Broad.

His 133-ball 71 was not his best knock but it was instrumental in India putting
at least 150 runs on the board.

Broad, who snapped up four wickets in 21 balls after lunch, made sure India
packed up for 152 and he finished with fantastic figures of six for 25 -by far
his best show against India.

England went into the match unchanged from Southampton, while India made three
changes, bring in Gambhir, Ashwin and Varun Aaron in place of Shikhar Dhawan,
Rohit Sharma and Mohammad Shami.

INDIA'S QUACK RECORD: 6 DUCKS IN AN INNINGS

India on Thursday became the 4th team in Test history to register six ducks in
an innings as England bowled them out for 152.

The other three teams with this dubious distinction are Pakistan (128) against
West Indies in 1980-81 at Karachi; South Africa (105) against India at Ahmedabad
in 1996-97; Bangladesh (87) vs WI at Dhaka in 2002-03.

It was the second time in India's Test history that three of the top four
batsmen got out without scoring. The previous instance was in the second innings
of the Leeds Test in 1952.

That India made 152 was thanks to skipper MS Dhoni, who scored a gritty 71 (133
balls, 154). R Ashwin (40) and Ajinkya Rahane (24) were the only other players
to reach double figures.

Dhoni equalled S African John Waite's record of 7 fifties by a wicketkeeper
against England in England.

India slumped from 8 for 0 to 8 for 4 within the space of 13 deliveries as
Stuart Broad (6-25) and James Anderson (3-46) ran riot.

India, who won the toss, made three changes to the side that lost the 3rd Test,
bringing in R Ashwin for Rohit Sharma, Gautam Gambhir for Shikhar Dhawan and
pacer Varun Aaron for Mohd Shami.

Broad's (at left) performance was his best ever against India.

Alastair Cook equalled Sunil Gavaskar's feat of 106 Tests in succession.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                             June 2, 2016 Thursday

Indian court convicts 24 suspects for 2002 religious riots

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 290 words


An Indian court has convicted 24 suspects, 11 of them for murder, for their part
in religious riots in 2002 in western India.

Special Court Judge PB Desai said that their sentences will be announced next
week.

Those convicted of murder could be sentenced to death. The judge acquitted 36
charged in connection with the rioting in Ahmadabad, the main city in Gujarat
state, in which 69 people - including former Congress politician Ehsan Jafri -
were killed by a Hindu mob.

The riots were triggered when Muslims set fire to a train carrying Hindu
nationalists, killing 60.

More than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims, were killed in three months of
violence that hit the state after that.

A prominent Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Bipin Patel, was
acquitted because of a lack of evidence.

Mr Jafri's widow, Zakia, welcomed the verdicts, but was upset at the 36
acquittals. "This verdict is half justice to me," she said.

India's judicial system is notorious for its delays.

The first high-profile convictions from the 2002 riots came 10 years later when
Maya Kodnani - a former government minister - and 31 others were convicted on
charges ranging from rioting to murder - stemming from an attack in a small
industrial town on the outskirts of Ahmadabad that killed 95 people.

Ms Kodnani, who was sentenced to 28 years in prison, has been free on bail while
her appeal is being heard by a higher court.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the state's chief minister at that time
of the riots, and Muslim leaders and human rights groups say Mr Modi and his
Hindu nationalist government did little to stop the violence, which he has
denied.

India's Supreme Court has said it has found no evidence to prosecute him for the
violence.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 211 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                      March 18, 2001 Sunday Final Edition

Mobs battle police in two Indian states

SOURCE: Associated Press

SECTION: News; Pg. A40

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: PATNA, India

PATNA, India -- Security forces battled protesters armed with guns and grenades
in two northern Indian states, leaving 18 people dead.

Soldiers were patrolling the areas yesterday to prevent further riots.

The clashes in the Siwan district of Bihar state and the industrial city

Kanpur in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh were unrelated, officials said.

In Siwan, supporters of a federal legislator accused of murder and extortion
clashed Friday with police in a gunbattle that raged for hours.

Nine Muslim rioters and two police officers were killed, said Mukund Prasad, the
state's Chief Secretary, raising the death toll from six.

The rioters were supporters of Shahabuddin, who is accused in 29 cases of
murder, extortion and kidnapping but has not been convicted. Shahabuddin, who
uses only one name, initially led his supporters in the clash but later fled,
police said.

In Kanpur, three Muslim protesters and a district official were killed after a
copy of the Koran, the Islamic holy book, was reportedly burned by Hindu
right-wing activists. Dozens of people were injured, said police Supt. G.P.
Sharma.

The violence, which started Friday, continued yesterday as Muslim mobs damaged
two Hindu temples, police said. One of the men injured in Friday's clashes died
early yesterday and two others were killed in fresh fighting later in the day,
said Home Secretary Naresh Dayal.

Two members of the Hindu-extremist group Bajrang Dal allegedly burned the book
March 5 to protest against the destruction of ancient statues of Buddha in
Afghanistan, which is run by the Muslim-fundamentalist Taliban.

The violence started during a rally of the fundamentalist Student Islamic
Movement of India over the alleged burning of the book.

The procession turned violent after the activists tried to burn an effigy of
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and started throwing bricks at police cars.

When the mob tried to burn the vehicles, police opened fire. The protesters then
attacked police posts in other parts of the city.

"They have sophisticated arms, which were used yesterday to fire at police. The
situation is grim," Sharma said.

A curfew was imposed in several neighbourhoods in Kanpur, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

Bangladesh: Suspicion of India's hegemonic ambitions not based on facts

LENGTH: 1014  words

DATELINE: Dhaka


Dhaka, March 05 -- MJ AKBAR, chairman of the fortnightly Covert magazine, is one
of most revered journalists, columnists and non-fiction writers in India. He was
formerly editor-in-chief of the Asian Age and the Deccan Chronicle and editor of
the Telegraph and Sunday. He has also authored a number of books including Riots
after Riots, India: The Siege Within, The Shade of Swords and Blood Brothers.
Akbar had a brief stint in politics as a member of parliament for the Congress
Party from 1989 to 1991, as adviser to the Ministry of Human Resources and also
as official spokesperson for the late prime minister Rajiv Gandhi.

According to our correspondent, Akbar was recently in Dhaka as the speaker at
the 13th convocation of the Independent University of Bangladesh. He talked on a
number of issues during an interview withmedia Excerpts: To start off with, how
did you enter the world of journalism? (Laughs) That was a long time back. I
guess I entered the profession because no one else gave me a job. That's not
really true, I was offered a position as a senior management trainee, but I
wasn't really interested in that. But what kept you in this profession for so
long? I don't really know but I have never wavered from this resolve, never had
any dilemmas or doubts, apart from a brief stint in public life which I did not
really enjoy. In your recent lecture at the Independent University of Bangladesh
convocation dinner you highlighted the great success of the Indian experiment
about how democracy was paving the way for all kinds of communities and classes
to come together and benefit from it. The Congress Party of India, now in power,
has in recent years projected to the world the image of India as an emerging
economic power much in the same vein as its predecessor BJP. But the fact
remains that the bulk of the Indian population has not benefitted from this
economic surge and the gap between the rich and the poor in India has widened. I
won't say the gap has widened but it certainly hasn't narrowed. I think this
will be the challenge for India in the years to come and remains the primary
problem for India. But are steps being taken to narrow this gap? There is
certainly a consciousness about it. The Naxalites are making them conscious.
There is a feeling in the rest of the subcontinent, outside of India, that this
economic growth will push India to realise its hegemonic ambitions? This is an
unreasonable fear not based on facts. If you study India's recorded history,
India has never shown any ambitions of territorial expansion. The Indian border
has not expanded an inch since 1947; in fact, it has shrunk in some parts. We
withdrew from Bangladesh in three months after the 1971 war. Do you think if
George Bush had arrived here he would have left in three months? In fact, if he
had left Iraq in three months he would have been a popular man. But short of
expansionist ambitions, India has displayed tendencies in the past of
interfering in the internal affairs of its neighbouring states? I believe these
suppositions are based on irrational fears. To put it simply, India has found
the right balance between its territory, population and races, and it would not
want to disturb this demographic balance. It has no interest in taking any
burden. You mentioned in your lecture that India and Bangladesh have no
problems. There is a significant population in this country who would strongly
disagree with you? What I meant that there were no problems which could not be
resolved. But for years Bangladesh has had serious issues with India regarding
the patronisation by India of an armed struggle in the Chittagong Hill Tracts as
well as the drying up of rivers. We had the Farakka problem in the past and now
there is the issue of the Tipaimukh Dam? Neighbours will always have problems.
Neighbours across the world have problems. Look at Nepal, it is a Hindu kingdom
and yet it has so many issues with India. What matters is that you have a
civilised relationship in which you can at least address these differences. In
your recent lecture as well as your columns over the years you hammer upon the
need for Pakistan to emerge out of the two-nation theory of 1947. On the other
hand, you argue that India has no expansionist plans. But if you take out the
two-nation theory, that the Muslims of the subcontinent deserve a separate
nation, what happens to Pakistan? It's true! What will happen to Pakistan if you
take out the two-nation theory? (laughs) But I guess Bangladesh is a good
example of how you can survive without the two-nation theory. What I meant was
that Muslims as one nation was not a real ideology. Religion cannot bind a group
of people as one nation; there are other factors that dictate the formation of a
nation. Look at the Middle East, they are Muslim countries and yet there are 22
states in the region. However, India has no ambitions of taking over Pakistan.
In fact, who would want to? Not even the United States would want to take over
Pakistan. I hope for the Pakistani people that beyond the two-nation theory they
find somebody to run them. The state of India has for years militarily
suppressed the nationalistic ambitions of many people including the Kashmiris as
well as those of the north-eastern Indian states and yet it continues to project
itself as the largest democracy in the world? It's a huge country with many
different nationalities, races and religions. There are bound to be problems.
Returning to Bangladesh, it has often been noticed that the Indian government,
especially when the Congress is in power, is more interested in a state-to-party
relationship than a state-to-state relationship? I don't believe the Indian
state has any partisan hostility towards any political party. However, if the
politics of certain quarters thrive on anti-India sentiments, it is bound to be
reflected in the state-to-state relationship. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                      IPR

                      June 12, 2010 Saturday 11:58 AM  EST

Tender Notice: Central Reserve Police Force Seeks Anti Riot Pistols (India)

LENGTH: 94  words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, June 12 -- Central Reserve Police Force said it had a requirement for
the supply of anti riot pistols.

According to the description: "Tenders are invited for Supply of Anti Riot
Pistol (38mm Anti Riot Pistol model No.NARP38)Qty: 300 Nos."

Bidding type is an international competitive bidding.

The tender notice no. is U.II. 883/2010-11-PROC-II Sr. No.1.

The last date for the submission of tender document is July 6. For more
information about India Press Release please contact: Sarabjit Jagirdar, India
Press Release, Email:- htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2010 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 211 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

BJP backs Modi as Indian prime minister

BYLINE: Ajay Jha Chief Correspondent

LENGTH: 582 words


New Delhi: India's principal opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come
out openly in support of Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi.

Modi has been under attack from BJP's old ally Janata Dal (United) for his
alleged role in the 2002 killings of Muslims in the state during one of the
worst communal riots India has faced since independence in 1947.

"We reject all unfounded inferences against Narendra Modi," BJP spokesperson
Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, BJP president Rajnath
Singh had termed Modi as the most popular leader of the party.

The JD(U) had on Sunday put a price on its continuation in the BJP-led National
Democratic Alliance (NDA) by demanding the BJP to name the NDA's prime
ministerial candidate by the year-end with the assertion that the person named
must have an impeccable secular image, saying it cannot compromise on its
principles for the sake of power.

Although BJP has not named anyone for the next general elections, which is still
a year away, there are indications that Modi is the most preferred choice ever
since he led the party for a third consecutive term in power in his home state
Gujarat late last year.

Senior BJP leaders belonging to Bihar, where the party shares power with JD (U),
called on party chief Rajnath Singh on Monday in wake of escalated and what many
feel unprovoked hostility from Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, the tallest JD
(U) leader. Kumar in his address to the party workers in the national capital on
Sunday. They told Singh in no uncertain terms that attacks on Modi will not be
tolerated.

Although both Kumar and his party which passed a political resolution in this
regard did not name Modi directly, they left none in doubt about their detest
for Modi by taking repeated jibes at him. JD (U) feels that being seen by the
side of Modi would deprive them of the 15 per cent Muslim votes in Bihar.

The tough stand taken by the JD (U) has put BJP in a spot of bother since the
party feels Modi is their best bet to attract both pro-Hindu votes as well as
the youth who want replication of development model of Gujarat initiated by Modi
ever since becoming Gujarat chief minister in 2001 in other parts of the
country.

However, naming Modi may see JD (U) walking out of the 17-year-old alliance
which may have a direct bearing on the 40 parliamentary seats of Bihar.

Senior BJP leader Yashwant Sinha has now virtually endorsed JD (U)'s demand to
name veteran BJP leader and former deputy prime minister Lal Krishna Advani the
NDA's prime ministerial candidate.

According to Sinha, naming Advani for the post would end all the debate in this
regard.

"Advani is the senior-most respected leader and if he is available to lead the
party and government then that should end all discussion. Everyone should fall
in line and work together for the party under his leadership. But the call will
have to be taken first by Advani himself, secondly by the party and finally by
NDA, Sinha said.

NDA had gone to polls in 2009 with Advani as its prime ministerial candidate.
The failure to push the Congress party out of power forced Advani to quit as
leader of opposition in the Lok Sabha. He was virtually pushed to
semi-retirement by the party. Advani would be 86 by the time next general
elections are held. With age not on his side, many are sceptical about him,
especially the BJP's ideological fountainhead Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)
which wants him to play mentor and pave the way for the younger generation.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2013 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 211 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Variety

                                 July 11, 2001

INDIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words

HIGHLIGHT: Troubled pic bows


Hindi lingo film "Gadar: Ek Prem Katha" (Mutiny: A Love Story) is doing well at
the local box office despite efforts by vandals to stop the screenings and
Muslim demands that it be banned.

The film, directed by Anil Sharma and starring Sunny Deol, is about the 1947
riots when India and Pakistan were divided.

There have been arson attempts on theaters showing the pic, and some have been
stoned, since the release of "Gadar" in June. No complaints were received when
the pic was cleared for screening, and filmmakers are at a loss to understand
the reason for the violence.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 Reed Elsevier Inc.
